Calendar of Virginia state papers and other manuscripts ..., v.2 1781. | HathiTrust Digital Library

Use of this online version is subject to all U.S. copyright laws. Please do not save or redistribute this file.
For questions or comments, contact HathiTrust.org at 



Full Bibliographic Information
Title
Calendar of Virginia state papers and other manuscripts ..., v.2 1781.
Author 
Virginia.Virginia.
Published 
Richmond,1875-93.
Description 
11 v.28 cm.
Rights 

Permanent URL 

Table of Contents

















































































































































































Book Text
Front Cover
Page Scan 1
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page Scan 2
- - |MM|| ºſmº º- - - | - -

This page contains an image.
Page Scan 3
/=•



This page contains an image.
Page Scan 4
Blank page
Page Scan 5
Blank page
Page Scan 6
Blank page
Page Scan 7
Blank page
Page Scan 8
Blank page
This page contains an image.
End of Front Cover. Continue to next section or 
Title Page
Page Scan 9
CALENDAR VIEGINIA STATE PAPEES AND OTHER MANUSCRIPTS, APR1L 1, 1781, TO DECEMBER 31, 1781. PRESERVED lN THE CAPlTOL AT RlCHMOND. ARRANGED AND EDITED BY WM. P. PALMER, M. D., OF VIRGINIA, Under authority of the Legislature of Virginia.

Attention Patron: This volume is too fragile for any future repair Please handle with great care. UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN UBRARY-OONSERVAT1ON t BOOK REPAIR RICHMOND: JAMES E. GOODE, PRINTER. 1881.
Page Scan 10
iv PREFACE. A period in which such events happened must form one of the great epochs in the world's history, and their record must ever challenge the atten- tion of mankind. The Calendar being chronological, the preservation of its unity required that all the papers of 1781 not calendared in the first volume should be inclu- ded in the second. The accomplishment of this has swelled the second volume beyond its prescribed limits. The index, which has been prepared by the writer, it may be assumed, will not only prove to be useful, but indispensable. That this volume is a valuable contribution to American history will be readily seen. Indeed, no full and reliable history of Virginia and the United States can be written without a resort to these historical papers. The value of a work like this, depends on the degree of its accuracy. The perfect work demands the exact reproduction of the originals or their sub- stance. Ordinarily there is no test 'of this requirement but time. In this case, in addition to the name of the editor, the critical revision to which this volume has been subjected, justifies the writer in pronouncing it exceptionally accurate. The publication of this volume will, it is hoped, prove the value of these papers, and thus cause the speedy publication of the remaining part of the Calendar. SHERWIN McRAE.
Page Scan 11
ERRATA. On page 699, under the head “CALLIS, COL. W. O.”, for what is therein printed, read: Transports went to Portsmouth, 2 days ago, and returned to mouth of Elizabeth river last evening; landed all their troops, and will return to New York; Col. Curle and H. Carter, prisoners on board.............................................................................. 1 On page 701, under head “CLARKE, GEN'L GEO. ROGERS,” for “exploration” read “expedition.”
Page Scan 12
Blank page
End of Title Page. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 1
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JOHN TYLER TO Gov: JEFFERSON. 1781. "Sir, April 1st I beg leave to inform you that in consequence of being solicited to Charles City represent this County again, and my consent thereto, I have declin'd • °' taking a scat in Council. I confess this determination discovers a degree Declines a of versatility in me; but since I have not withdrawn my small services (j*UiJ"ii '0 from the public, I hope you will not think mo reprehensible. I have many good reasons in addition to the above (which perhaps have no right to a place here) that induce mo to make this resignation of my seat in Council— I am with due respect— Yr: Excellency's most obedient sorvt." COL: W. O. CALLIS TO Biuo: GENL G. WKEDON AT WTUSHURU. April 1st "Sir, Since my last no material movement of the Enemy's Fleet has taken Hampton place. The Transports went up to Portsmouth two days ago, and Movements returned to the mouth of Elizabeth River last evening. They landed of the enemy all their troops and are now waiting for a fair wind (it is said on board the Flag ship) to sail for New York. Mr. Goodrich was coming on shore yesterday with a Flag. I happened to be on board of the Flag ship as he passed and informed him that no message whatever, from either the Army or Navy would be rec'd on this side: the busincss of the Flag was to inform Col: Carter & Colo. Curies' Family that the Prisoners were immediately to be sent to New York & that Colo. Curio & Mr. II. Carter were much distressed for cash. The accompanying Letter is to inform Mr. Carter of the distressed situation of his son, which if you will be so obliging as to forward, you will confer an obligation on both— I have the honor to be with great Esteem." J
Page 2
2 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAW: Ro: GAMBLE TO COL: DAVIES. April 1st "Dear Col, ***** Chesterfield "I am happy to hear your post is more independent than was imag- ined, since t'will be in your power to render more essential service to your Country, than could be effected, was every order and regulation however trifling to be debated in Council and their approbation obtained, previous to its being executed. Loss of Offi- Of the very few Officers reported to be in the Southern Army, there is absent at Pr. Ed: with the Baggage 2 Lieuts. sick; absent, & gone to Virga., &c: 1. Capt: & 10 Subalterns. Several of which has the tour of Virga. to take, then to continue some months at the Sweet Springs pre- vious to their returning into service—1. Capt: & 1. Sub. Pay M. now in Virga. & has been several weeks—2 Subs. with Cavalry at Staunton— 1. Capt: 1. Sub killed—This reduction is so great from the few reported in the S. A: that there cannot be more than i of Officers sufficient to command their Detachments": ***** With great esteem I am Dr. Sir— Yr: most Hum Servt." April 1st John Fitzgerald informs Gov: Jefferson he has received the letter Alexandria enclosing the Tobacco Notes by Mr. Custis, and has made the purchase of the Encyclopedie as desired. He will have a box made in a few days and will take the first opportunity to forward them to Mr. Uuntcr. April lst MAJR. GENL STEUBEN TO THE GOVERNOR. Chesterfield He has just received a letter from Col: Banister informing him, that ^ the times of service of the Riflemen and other Troops under Genl: Muhlenburg will expire in ten days, and requesting him to take steps to send out a "relief" for them, if the present military force in that quarter, is to be maintaincd. April 2nd LlEUT: AB6OLOM PoLLARD TO GOV: JEFFERSON. Hoods Requesting to know whether he is to be relieved from Command at that place, as the "term of duty'-' of his men will expire on the ninth instant; and as there is little use for these men, and the Carpenters working on the Fortifications will need the Barracks.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 3
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 3 MAJR. RICHD. CLAIBORNE TO THE GOVERNOR. 1781. He has just received a peremptory order from Baron Steuben, to sup- April 2nd ply saddles and accoutrements for three hundred horse, and to lay in "a large Magazine of Forage at Petersburg". As this cannot by any means in his possession-, be done, begs for a warrant on the Treasury for the sum needed for his Department—Money is absolutely wanted for "every operation", and his business must entirely fail unless it be supplied. Francis S. Lee refuses to qualify as County Lieutenant, and LcRoy April 2nd Pcachey recommended by the Co. Court, in his stead—Walker Tomlin Richmond chosen Colonel, and Geo. Glasscock 2nd Lieut: Col—V. Rodman, Major— County MAJOR CLAIBORNE TO THE EXECUTIVE. April 2nd "Sir, I have looked over my .estimates, which I transmitted some time Richmond since to the Assistant Quarter Master General, and find that they amount to Two hundred and thirty eight thousand, one hundred and twenty eight Pounds, five shillings, specie, or other money equivalent—This is for supplies required for the Southern Army. The pay of persons .employed,—waggon hire and contingent expenses in this State for the Campaign of 1781. Whether the Estimates have been made out in the same manner for the other branches, by which the proportions can be ascertained I submit to your Excellency. For immediate relief, the demands of this department requires for Financial cs- Transportation, £3000. timates Wages, 2000. Manufactures, 3000. Cavalry accoutrements, 3000. Forage, 2000. Contingences, 7000. £20.000. Your Excellency will be pleased to observe that the demands of the Field business, is not included in the above estimate, which will at least amount to Ten Thousand Pounds. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, &c."
Page 4
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COPY OF A COMMUNICATION FROM THE VA. DELEGATES TO . April 2nd "Sir, Philadelphia The underwritten Delegates from the State of Virginia, have been informed that there are among the refugees taken by Capt: Tilly, com- manding his M. C. Majesty's ship "L'Evielle," on his return to new Port from Chesapeake Bay, a considerable number, who were formerly Disnflectcd inhabitants of Virginia—As some of these persons, according to the '? laws of that State, fall under the description of Traitorous Citizens, and consequently are not proper subjects of exchange, and others, although they do not fall under that description, may, if exchanged or released be very prejudicial to the State during the operations against it, by giv- ing information & counsel to the Enemy, and by their seductions among the people, the Delegates above mentioned wish that no steps may be taken for exchanging or releasing them, untill the fact shall have been communicated to his Excellency the Governor of Virginia. With this view, they ask the favor of you Sir, to intimate this circumstance to the Commander of his M. C. Majesty's Squadron at new Port, and to obtain from him a list of the names of such of his Captives as were formerly inhabitants of Virginia. ****** April 2nd BRIO: GENL: G-. WEEDEN TO THE GOVERNOR—by Mr. Armstcnd, who waits upon his Excellency to arrange for the exchange of certain Prisoners. He has sent a "Flag" to the Enemy, proposing an exchange of the Volunteers taken at Charles City Co. House, for an equal number of marines captured in Warwick Co.—Has also granted a "Flag" from Hampton requesting the delay of the Ship for New Nork, on board of which is Col: Curie, 'till the pleasure of the Executive is known, "respect- ing an Exchange of him, for Col: Allegood." April 2nd Doctor Nath: Pope, represents to the Executive, the difficulty ho has Pay of Med. in making out his accounts against the Public Auditors for his services Officers as j£edical Officer, and for those of his Apothecary; owing to the mul- tiplicity and variety of Orders he has from time to time received from the Gov: & Council. Although feeling authorized to charge at the rate of "350 Pounds of Tobacco pr: day" being more than he expects or desires, he agrees to receive "150 Ponds. of Toba. pr: day" with rations and forage: and that the State pay his Apothecary, or allow him "250 Ponds. of Tobacco, and he pay that officer out of the same, for his services."
Page 5
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. MAJOR GODFREY LINITOT TO COL: SLAUGHTER, AT FALLS OF OHIO. 1781. (In French.) April 2nd He feels compelled, for the good of tho State, to send Sergeant Simon St.Vinconnos Fletcher, express, to inform him of the condition of that Country, and the disposition of tho Indians, in order that some remedy may be applied—Tho expedition to Detroit was a fajlure, and aid is now needed to keep their Indian allies faithful. He must rely upon Col: Slaughter's known generosity and friendship, to interest himself in behalf of a people and Country threatened with dire calamity unless promptly succoured. He trusts his Express will meet with due compensation at his hands for tho service ho renders. He awaits with anxiety an answer; and begs leave to add his grateful remembrances to Mrs. Slaughter, and to the gentlemen at the Falls, as he can ncver forget the kind offices done him, &c: JAS: BARBOUR TO THE GOVERNOR. April 2nd "Sir, I this day rcc'd your orders to march our militia—we are now Culpeper Co. paraded & and shall march—I must once more beg leave to Trouble your Excellency, not for myself, but for some of tho "Divisions," who think themselves entitled to a discharge, for these Reasons—Tho Law for raising our quota of men for the Continental Army, directed all those of the militia that marched to Carolinia, tho' not returned, should be Clas'd—Several of our militia, who marched to the South, then engaged in Col: Washington's Regt. for the War. Now these Divisions that hold one of these men say that their Division have furnished a man, which is all the Law required of them, tho' they have been drafted, I have not ordered those of that Description to march, until 1 can get your Excel- lency's opinion, which shall govern, With great regard, your mo: obedient Servt." GEOROE MUTER, COL: S. GARRISON REOT.; TO COL:'WM. DA VIES. April 2nd By the death of Lt: Colonel Porterfield, which occurred in January Richmond last, a vacancy was occasioned in the State Garrison Regiment. The Officers of the regiment think they are entitled to the promotion conse- Promotion quent upon that "unfortunate event," (much lamented by them all,)" from the time of its occurrence: Major Magill now in turn has made his application to him, which he trusts, together with the claims of the other Officers, may he considered by the Executive.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 6
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. BRIO: GENL: PHILLIPS, TO MAJ: GENL: PHILLIPS, COMDO: AT PORTSMOUTH. April 2nd Williamsb'g Requesting that the ship with American Prisoncrs about to sail for New York, may be detained a few days, he expecting authority for their exchange. April 2nd MAJOR G. LlNITOT TO GOV: JEFFERSON. Vinoenncs The Commission granted him on account of his sincere attachment to the cause of the United States by his Excellency, has enabled him to carry out the policy of maintaining friendly relations with the "Ore- bache" Indians and other tribes: but for the future maintenance of this state of things the transmission of goods, powder and other articles Western will be necessary. These Allies now remain true and faithful, but unless Indians their wants are supplied, the English. who may aftbrd them relief will succeed in engaging them on their side—The attachment of his Excel- lency to Virginia and her honour and interests should not permit those people to remain daily exposed to massacre on account of their fidelity to the State, for want of the necessaries of life, arms, powder &c:—On this account he earnestly prays, in behalf of them, and the honor of the State, that they may not be left to a cruel and uncertain fate. April 3rd WM. MANN, C. M. STORES, TO MAJOR JOHN PRYOR, FIELD COM. MIL. STORES. New Castle Urges the necessity of a guard for the stores just arrived and on the way to that place, which he finds "deficient of every thing necessary"— Provisions exceedingly scarce and living very high—All the vessels employed greatly in nced. Desires instructions as to whether he shall discharge them— April 3rd PETER WAOENER TO GOV: JEFFERSON OF VA. "May it please your Excellency," Fairfax When the Enemy's vessels were cruise- ing up & down Potomac, the defenseless situation of the Town of Alex- andria, induced me, at the particular request of'the Inhabitants of the said Town & County, to apply to the Governor of Maryland for the Application . loan of some arms & ammunition. His Excellency was pleased to lend for means for us tWQ barrci9 of (jun powder, and two nine pounders, which we have Alexandria got from Anapolis by land at the expenco of a few individuals. We had before two twleve pounders at Alexandria belonging to this State.
Page 7
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. from the determined spirit of the people to defend the Town, I am 1781. satisfied that if these Cannon were put into proper Order, that we April 3rd should be able to prevent any of the small vessels doing any damage at Alexandria, and as it is proposed to have the Cannon fixed on travelling Carriages, we shall be able to move them to some place of safety, if a superior force should come up—The wheels for the Carnages are made to the Iron work, which will be completed this week—As it is impossible to get men to work without money, and it falling very heavy on a few by subscription, I am advised to apply to your Excellency for a sum of money from the Treasury to enable us to curry this useful work into Execution. I have sent by the bearer Ralph Longdon, my Bond, with security for applying what money you may please to send by him, to the use of the publick—I have appointed a Company of Artillery at Co. of artil- Alexandria, which will chiefly consist of men that are exempt from 'ery militia duty. The Officers arc Capt: Con way, Taylor, Harper & Rob- ertson, which I hope will meet with your approbation. On the 19th of March our Draught took place, for furnishing our Difficulties of quota of men. Among others three classes were drafted. the men drafting came in the next day, and they appeared to me to be Invalids, and alto- gether unfit to do the duty of Soldiers. I did not receive the men, and accordingly drafted the three classes over again. the men whose lot in these fell on to 'go were dissatisfied at my proceedings, as they stood the Draft the evening before. they employed counsel and prevailed on a Court Martial which I had ordered to try some deserters, to determine the matter. the court were of opinion, that the second Draught was illegal. I have therefore submitted the matter to you, whether I shall send ou the Invalids that were first drafted, or whether I had a right to proceed to the second Draft"— ***** "On Monday morning last, before Day a small vessel came up to Alex- Capture of a andria, and attempted to cut out of the Harbour, a Baltimore vessel Vessel> *c- lying there loaded with Tobacco. they boarded the vessell and had confined the men, but being discovered by another vessel in the Harbour, the Town was alarmed, which prevented the Enemy from carrying oft' the vessel} they had boarded—they took a Boat alongside and got into their own vessel and proceeded down the River—A Schooner well armed & man'd was sent after her, and I am this moment informed they over took her at Boyd's hole; took her and most of the men—some made their escape by getting ashore. The Enemy on Saturday morning last burnt Mr. Stephen Stuart's House on West River, Maryland—also a twenty gun ship on the stocks nearly finished. I am yr: Excellency's most obed: H'blo Servt."
Page 8
8 CALENDAR OF STATE TAPERS. 1781. CAPT: R. GAMBLE TO COL: DAVIES. April 3rd In regard to the "three boys ordered to the Laboratory, John Owens of Gloucester, Stubble Bowls of King & Queen, and John Camp of Bruns- wick—whom he overtook six miles from Chesterfield to register their names. April 3rd COL: FRANCIS TAYLOR TO TUE GOVERNOR. Winchester The German Troops arrived there on the 5th ult:, and Col: Wood set out the same evening for Philadelphia, from which place he has not returned. The Guard W ago us &c: ordered in Maryland were furnished by tho Co. Lieut: of Frederick, and he was about to march, but received orders from Col: Wood from Fredericktown to remain at Winchester, as the German Troops are to remain there. He has not discharged any of tho Soldiers of the State Guard Regt: as he intended on his return from German tho Potomac. As the Germans are to remain in the State, and the prisoncrs, &e lI.OOps enlisted to serve only in Albemarle must be discharged, thus reducing the regiment to much less than a hundred men, thinks the whole had better be discharged—The Germans who are very orderly and easily governed will require only a small militia guard—He will store tho arms of the discharged men at Winchester, and proceed to Albemarle to arrange for thoir pay, clothing and shoes, for want of which, they are suffering very much. April 3rd COL: RlCHD. CAMPBELL TO GoV: JEFFERSON. Camp His feelings for the sufferings of his men require him to represent the Deep River "distressed situation" of his Command, for want of Clothing—When-be Greatwnntof marched from Virginia, his men were furnished only, with onc shirt. and cloilnng one pair Qf over aus 1Vpioco made of oznabnrgs, which lasted a short time—They are now so needy that Genl: Greene has consented to allow him to send Capt: Edmunds, with special orders to obtain clothing and he hopes his Excellency will take the matter into consideration. April 3rd JAMES MADISON JUR: AND THEOD. BLAND TO GOV: JEFFERSON. "Sir, Philadelphia We have been favor'd with your Excellences, enclosing a state of . the affairs between Mr. Nathan and tho Commonwealth of Virginia, which we are endeavoring to put in train for a decision, on the princi- ples you have been pleased to direct, the event of which yr: Excellency shall be informed of as soon as 'tis decided. The unfortunate conse-
Page 9
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 9 queuces which have attended the naval engagement of Chesapeake on 1781. the 16th ult: we feel with unspeakable regret, as they have snatched April 3rd from us the pleasing prospects we had cherished for some time past, of Effect of na- frustrating the sanguine project of the enemy (of subjugating most Of ™lrevers®off the Southern States this Campaign) and thrown our Country into a situ- Bay, &c. ation, which must require her utmost exertions, with all the aid that can be sent her, to extricate her from. This we shall leave no means unessayed to etfcet^on our parts. The same unhappy event has deprived us of the use of the anus and stores which were to have gonc from Rhode Island (the eargoc of the Comi're) on board a trench frigate, but we have the satisfaction to Inform yr: Excellency, that they are safe arrived at this place in the Frigate which was to have carried them to Virginia. We have ordered them to be landed and have taken the necessary steps to forward them with all possible dispatch by a safe Route to Virginia—having committed them to the care of Col: Febiger under the direction of the Board of War. but it is with much concern that we find on this, as well as on many other occasions where we might yield considerable service to our country on pressing emergencies, the want of small sums of moncy is frequently an insurmountable obstacle to a speedy execution of our intention—and the important matters which engage our attention in Congress interfere with the necessary attention required by such objects, when the ready means of executing them are not in our hands. Remedies to these inconveniences we leave to the wisdom of Yr: Excellency and the Legislature. We have the Honor to be, Yr: Excellys. Most Obedt. Servts:"' CAVT: JAS: MAXWELL TO THE (H)VERNOR. April 4th "Sir, State I beg leave to inform Your Excellency, that I hope by the latter shiP end of this week all the publick stores will be removed from this place Disposition to a store of Col: Dandridges, distance by water from the Yard about of tlie, StatiJ's armed vessels 13 miles, and since the late reinforcement 01 the Enemy have ordered the Ship Tempest & Hrig Jefferson up James River to Joyn those private arm'd Vessels that are taken into publick service. the boat Patriot and Lewis Gaily are stationed by Genl: Weden's directions between Hampton Road & Burwell's ferry to give signals to our Army or any Naval force of the Enemy's coming up James River—the ships Thetis, Tartar and Dragon are not yet got quite to their place of desti- nation—Since my arrival here we have lost our Builder by Death, and have employed another who apears to be equally capabell— ***'** I have the Honor to be most respectfully, &c:"
Page 10
10 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR RICHD. CLAIBORNE TO THE GOVERNOR. April 4th "Sir, Richmond The great demands which arc made upon me for things to be fur- nished from this Department, both for the Southern Army, and the Troops within this State, alarm mo more and more, as I have not the Perilous state means to answer any purpose whatsoever. I am called upon by the nenul Quar' Commissary General of Purchases, and the Commissary General of tor Master's Military Stores for wagons & horses daily, to transport their stores, and Department have it not in my power to procure any. The preparations which the Baron directed me to make for the Cavalry & Infantry to be equiped in this State, cannot be done, as I have not moncy to purchase, and can not get credit for an article. I am altogether disappointed in the wagons to come from the Counties agreable to the late law, and get no assist- ance from Mr. Brown's Commissioners—In short, Sir, I plainly foresee, that unless I have great aid from some near resource, the operations of the whole department will stop in a few days—It is with great concern that I am.obliged to mention this to your Excellency, but as timely rep- resentations are nccessary for the public Interest, and my own reputa- tion, I am induced to do it. If Government will do anything to support mo, I intreat that it may be donc immediately, but should this applica- tion be unsuccessful, and the disagreable consequences follow which I have every reason to expect, I hope Your Excellency & Council will bear witness that I have spared no time or pains to answer everything required of me, so far-as it was in my power. Resigns his I take this early opportunity to inform Your Excellency, that I have """:e resigned the Appointment of Quarter Master for the Troops in this State. I accepted it merely to serve the Army and tiie States, but as the difficulties in public business increase hourly, I am sensible the Task would be too great for me. It seems very probable, that the Army will increase, rather than decrease; therefore it is highly requisite that an Officer should be immediately appointed to this duty. In hopes that I cou'd fill bo'th Offices, I made out full Instructions for such persons as I proposed to appoint, and have them now ready. I have informed Colo. Carrington and Baron Stouben of this, and requested that a person may be appointed immediately, to whom I will give every information my experience has taught me. I am sensible that a large sum of moncy will be nccessary for this Department. and wou'd bug leave to recommend it to the Consideration of Your Excellency & Council. Mr. Elliott, I believe, will return to his Post. as Assistant Deputy Quarter Master. I have the honor to be with the highest respect Your Excellency's most obt hble servant."
Page 11
CALENDAR OP STATE PAPERS. ROBERT ANDREWS TO Gov. JEFFERSON. 1781. "Sir, April 4th Your Favour oi' the 31st ult: addressed to Mr. Madison & myself, I Williamsb'g received yesterday, & shall be prepared to enter on the Business you have been pleased to propose as soon as the necessary Preliminaries are settled. I think no objection can be made to your mode of locating the Commission Boundary, as it is the only one which, without infinite Pains & Trouble [£p p^'& can be in any Degree accurate. Before we set out, it will be proper to bonndary know at what time the Commissioncrs of Pennsylvania will meet us at" Pittsburg—& we would request Your Excellency to inform President Reid, that the Time fixed on by them shall be observed by us. The lot having decided that I should go to Philadelphia, I shall have occasion only for two Horses, & must depend on the Public for them, having nonc fit for such a Journey, or which 1 could venture to deprive my Family of at this Time. Mr. Reade the Quarter Master at this Post. on being properly authorized will undertake to furnish them. I am Sir, with the greatest respect & esteem Your mo: obedt. & very hble sorvt." COL: ARTHUR CAMPBELL TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 4th Washington For want of money to pay the men, he has with great difficulty sue- Co. ceeded in patrolling Powel's Valley—this is due to the non-payment of Powell's the militia for their former services. Requests, that one month's pay for Valley these men may be sent by the bearer Capt: Kinsaid, who will give every security for the proper use of the money entrusted to him. GEORGE RICE, Q. MASTER, TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 4th Earnestly appealing to the Executive for an advance of money to pay Fcvorish his debts due to the people of Alhemarle Co. on account of supplies fur. sta*?.of t!ie. public mind nished the Barracks by them. They hear of the new emission, and are in Albemarle now hopeful of receiving their long delayed payment, and a refusal will Co. be considered tantamount to an absolute denial of their just claims. The effect of this upon the minds of a people, who have cheerfully done so much, and patiently awaited the action of the Government must neces- sarily be very disastrous in their present excited state of mind. Added to this is the threatened Collection of the Taxes; and the same strin- gency is to be visited upon them, as upon Counties heretofore declared delinquent, although they have parted cheerfully with their wagons, forage and every article they could spare for the use of the Post. on the most moderate terms—More than this: when it was found that the vol-
Page 12
12 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. April 4th Trouble an- ticipated in collecting the taxes untary Contributions thus made would not meet the wants of the post, the policy of impressment was adopted by the Government; and they were left to encounter the most serious difficulties & losses, while others from whom little or nothing had been drawn, have had their Certificates either paid off at the Treasury or made receivable in Taxes. The impres- sion that the post at the Barracks was under the immediate direction of the Executive, and that Congress itself would provide for the payment of all claims due the people for supplies, had established more than ordi- nary Confidence in the Government, on their part. Under this influence, they have relied upon the Justice and honor of the Executive, and not upon any remote relief in the uncertain future. He trusts his Excellency will excuse the zeal with which he urges this matter—Takes occasion to say that in the employment and hiring. of the transportation, the wagons were assessed contrary "to the usage of every other military post"; and the owners arc now called on for the Tax upon such assessment. and "to the disgrace of this Office and the Ruin of Public Credit," he is not able to pay them that Pittance, or as much as will discharge the Smiths' account for shoeing their horses— As a consequence of all this the people are now offering to sell their Cer- tificates for cash, at a discount of fifty pr: cent. Their minds are in so excited a state, that were he to call on them "in the extremest want to supply me with waggons or any thing else," they would consider it an insult and refuse with disdain—Indeed he anticipates trouble in the Col- lection of Taxes, unless "the Publick set the example of payment"—In a word, unless he is afforded the means of paying off' these debts, ho will be forced to change his Residence, and leave them to some other mode of application—The sum of Four Hundred Thousand Pounds will be required: which if allowed him, he will at once set to work to adjust and pay these claims, and hold any ballance that may remain, subject to the orders of the Executive—Should his request lie granted, he begs the Warrant upon the Treasurer be given some preference, in view of the great demands upon that Officer. He cannot delay longer, as he has to remove the Baggage of the Germans, and to provide for equipping Colo: Whites Regiment of horse for field Service. April 4th COL: THOS. RfiAB TO THE GOVERNOR. Charlotte Co. Great scarci- He finds it impossible to arm the onc hundred and fifty-six militia just ty of arms ortlered l,y nis Excellency to be sent to Genl: Greene—Not more than arms enough for a Sergeant's guard can be gotten in the entire County, because they were given to the militia who went to Genl: Greene on the 20th February last. The number of men too will be deficient, unless it is proposed to send off' all remaining in the County, or require those now returning from service in the Southern Army to go back at once. The
Page 13
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 13 militia of Charlotte have ever been as prompt to respond to the call of 1781. duty as those of any of their neighboring Counties, but all the young April 4th and unmarried men "have turned out voluntarily" and those left must Volunteers, remain to cultivate the lands "for a prospect of bread the ensuing year"—Subjoins the following estimate to show the strength of the County at this date &c: "Militia 565. Rank & file. 342. now on duty. 223 70 Volunteers with Genl: Lawson as Cavalry. 153 Remainder. 156 To be ordered to the Southward—3 short." COL: A. W. WHITE, TO THE GOVERNOR, in reply to his request to have April 6th one, Epaphroditus Rudder arrested on complaint of Colo: Buford, for "some malversation as to a horse; publick property," and desiring him to countermand the Orders to persons impressing horses in the State, for the 1st & 3d Regiments of Light Dragoons. Manchester It would give him great pleasure to comply, but Rudder and the other Arrest of an Officers engaged in this business "have their orders from Genl: Greene. officer Commander in Chief of the Southern Army," and should any inferior Officer take such a liberty, he would suffer the consequences; and the precedent, he thinks, would be fatal to the Army in matters of perhaps a more serious nature. If Rudder has offended against the laws of the Country, or acted con- trary to instructions, or "deviated in the least from the character of an officer or a gentleman" his Excellency is assured, upon application being made to the Com: in Chief of the So: Army. due notice will be taken of it. CHAS: DICK TO THE GOVERNOR, by Capt: Minor—applying for a War- April r>th rant for "One Hundred Thousand Pounds" for the use of the Gun Factory. Frederic'sb'g "This sum sounds high, but it is not near equal to one thousand pound Wants of the in good Times"—Workman's wages are from £15. to £35. pr. day, and Onn Factory coul(i scarcely be gotten, except that they are exempt from all military duty.—Concludes—" I cou'd wish Your Excellency wou'd order a Letter to be wrote to the undertakers of the public Magazine, pressing them to finish it—It is now above 4 years since it was begun, and the upper part design'd for Arms wou'd be of great service to us in holding our old & new Arms as finish'd off, untill call'd for."
Page 14
14 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. WM. CALL LIETTT OF PRINCE GEORGE Co. TO THE EXECUTIVE. April 6th Richmond The Militia of Prince George County in the service are petitioning to Men needed he relieved by the 15th, in order to plant their corn—One third of the to plant corn effcctive force of the County is in the field; and have been ever since the present invasion began—Suggests that the proportion be reduced to one fourth, and that these be relieved once every six weeks. instead of every three months as at present. thus affording great convenience to the people. and not too much diminishing the strength of the Army. April 6th MAJOR Rn: CLAIBORN TO THE GOVERNOR. Richmond "Sir, Tho Cnnt. Q. I yesterday received a Warrant from the Auditor's Office. on the M. gets relief Treasury of thij) Statc fm. twO Mil|ions of Pounds. I beg leave to return Your Excellency and Council my particular thanks, for this additional instance of their attention to my department, and to assure them that every method shall be takeu, to dispose of the money with the greatest economy and Justice— I have the honor to be, with the highest respect Your Excellency's most obedient & hmble Servt." April 6th COL: WM. 1>AVIES TO THE GOVERNOR. War Office The Estimates lately made by Mr. Ross enclosed—Some think them too small. Requests directions in regard to Mr. Clark's proposals for Pt. of Fork the brick work at the Point of Fork—Col: White applies for clothing— He has not as yet executed the orders, directing the removal of the can- non at South Quay, but has engaged three teams in that neighborhood, and corresponded with Mr. Baker at that place, who thinks they can be moved. April 6th MAJ: GEN: W. PHILIPS, by Saml: II. Had ford, Aid de Camp, TO BRKJ GEN WEEDON. Portsmouth "Sir, Policy of the The two "Flags," by Lt: Col: Mathews & Major Callis have* been British Gen'l a,ln,ittc,i into this pl8W.c & your Letters received by them. it I hope you will be convinced from these Gentlemen's report of my conversation with them, that I mean to pursue, during my stay in Virginia a conduct of the strictest liberality & humanity, & I do assure you, that nothing shall turn me aside from such benevolent principles, but the rash &
Page 15
CALENDAR OF STATE TAPERS. 15 violent conduct, I have reason to fear may be taken up by your Gov- 1781. ernor, Council <& House of Delegates. I have ree'd on my arrival here, April tith a Letter* signed by Mr. Jefferson, of so barbarous, excuse me for saying, Mr. Jeffor- Sir, insolent a nature, that it would be unbecoming my Hunk & situation, Jyt"csr™j}' ''"^ to give any answer to it. I will, however declare to you Sir, that should resolutions of any part of the Savage threats, contained in that Letter, and the reso- M'^/!,"",?/ °' lutions of your House of Delegates be put in execution, I shall consider Virginia as intending to cany on a peculiar War, abstracted from the General unhappy one, & I will trout the Colony accordingly— I enclose to yon Sir, the copy of a Letter I writ some days ago to 'Genl: Muhlenberg respecting an exchange of Prisoners, & have rec'd for answer. that he must take the Commands of Major Genl: Steuben upon it—I will freely own to have looked upon this, as an evasive answer, & had directed the prisoners to be sent to New York; but Major Callis delivering me your .Letter, I immediately stopped the prosecution of the orders, which 1 hope will persuade you of the respect & regard I hold for you, and how much I depend on your honour. I request you to understand that by an exchange of Prisoners I mean Prisoners those American Prisoners of War, who are actually within our Lines & «"l'jecU of exchange such as have been taken in Arms, gave Paroles to Brig: Genl: Arnold, to be opposed in Exchange, against all such British &. Germans as may now be within the Province of Virginia Prisoners of War, comprehend- ing among others, some Dragoons, who were cast away on the coast; the men taken at Port St. Vincennes, with Lt: Governor Hamilton, such of the British & German Troops of Convention, as may be in any of the Goals of the Province, & to oppose Cols: Curie & Elligood for an exchange against each other. *This refers to a letter from Gov: Jefferson to "the Commanding Officer of tho British force at Portsmouth," dated "In Council March 24th, 1781." us follows: "Sir, Some of the Citizens of this Stute taken prisoners when not in Arms and enlarged on parole have reported the Commanding Officer as affirming to them that they should be punished with death if found in Arms. This has given occasion to tho inclosed resolution of the Gencral Assembly of this State. It suffices to observe at present that by the laws of nations, u breach of parole (even when the validity of the parole is unquestioned) can only be punished by strict Confinement. No usage ha* permitted the putting to Death a prisoner for this Cause— I would willingly suppose that no British Officer had ever expressed a contrary Purpose. It has however become my Duty to declare that should such a Threat be carried into Execution, it will be deemed as putting Prisoners to Death in Cold Blood, and shall be followed up by the Execution of so many British Prisoners in our possession. 1 trust however that this horrid necessity will not be introduced by you, and that you will on the contrary concur with us in endeavouring as far ns pos- sible to alleviate tho inevitable miseries of war by treating Captives as Humanity and natural honour requires. The event of this Contest will hardly be effected by the fate of a few miserable Captives in War. I have the honor to be <&c."
Page 16
16 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Respectingthc Marines in your possession, I will enter upon an exchange April 6th for them, but the transaction must not be esteemed a precedent to pur- Mnrines sue hereafter, as the Corps of Marines belong to the Navy, & exchanges must operate in future in that Department— Officers to be I will moreover consent on my part, that all Officers, which hereafter paroled may be made Prisoners of War, on either Side, shall be reciprocally per- mitted to return to their Friends on parole till exchanged. I am to request your immediate Answer to this Letter, & I refer to Major Callis to explain to you, my Sense of a number of civilities I have formerly rec'd in Virginia, & from you Sir, in particular. 1 am Sir, Your mo: obt., most Humble Servant." April 8th MAJOR JoHN PllYOR TO COL. DAV1ES. Richmond Want of ar- Urging the employment, at any cost of "Tin men" and "artists" tillery am- familiar with the preparation of artillery ammunition. for which he is munition * L "pressed on all sides." The estimates made for carrying on the Labora- tory, of the highest importance, and no time should be lost in supplying them. April 6th BRIG: GENL: G. WEEDON TO MAJ: GENL: PHILLIPS. Williamsb'g "Dr. Sir, Propositions I had the honor of addressing you the 2d Inst:, since which for exchange n!ivo hoen furnished with a list of British Prisoners now in Richmond, <xc. who I would willingly exchange ibr an equal number of Americans; Soldier for Soldier, Seaman for Seaman, & Citizen for Citizen—Mr. Moss Armstead, who will deliver you this is authorised to ratify on my part,' the P'xchange of any number in said list, you may please to agree to. The Executive of the State have in many instances granted great indulgences to the Captive Officers of the British Army. And I would wish favors of a similar nature might be extended to such as are objects of enlargement on Parole—I mean those who are infirm and by the chance of war now separated from their.Families. I have the honor to be with all Personal respect, yr: mo: obt Servt." April 6th DAVID Ross TO COL: Wil. 1>AVIES. Richmond An Estimate for the equipment of the Virginia line, 4500 men is just put into his hands: Supposes it is intended for their complete fitting out for the next winter, and not for the present campaign. But as he thinks
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 17
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 17 clothing, accoutrements and other military stores are necessary to enable 1781. all the troops of Virginia to take the field this campaign, especially the April 6th two Legions to be raised for Genl: Spotswood, estimates should be made How esti- accordingly. The exhausted condition of the Treasury and tho "dis- ^ tressed situation of our Trade" from the late operations of tho Enemy supplying require that these estimates be based more upon what can be had, than troops upon what is actually nceded—He thinks "Russia sheeting or canvass short coats & vests, with scarlet capos & cuffs would make an agrcablo wear & tolerable figure for the summer," and perhaps woollens may be gotten for tho winter. As many of tho articles immediately wanted must come from tho Northern States, and the season fast advancing, no time is to be lost—On this account the estimates should be sent in at once. JNO: FLOYD TO COL: GEO: SLAUGHTER. April 7th Tho Commissioners appointed to examine into tho conduct of Capts. Investiga- Wm. Shannon, and James Francis Moore, are to meet at Dowdle's Sta- a'uct'of'offl-" tion on Salt River,—at which any witnesses he may want should assem- cers ble. The report of the trial to be sent to Genl: Clarke as soon as possi- ble; but as that Officer cannot set out for tho Falls of Ohio before 1st June, there will be time to assemble tho Commissioners, any four of whom can act. Col: Geo: Slaugher replies to John Floyd, that ho cannot get his wit- April 7th ncsses by the time specified, Joseph Lindsay of Lexington, Mr. Master- Louisville son of Boonsburg and Col: Stephen Trigg of Lincoln being too remote to receive tho notice—On this account desires tho trial to be put off until the 20th, & to be hcld at that place, when all his chief witnesses, and as Capt: Robt. Todd expects to leave as bearer of an Express to Fort Pitt. COL: THOMAS READ TO THE GOVERNOR. April 7th Giving the opinion of the Court Martial, respecting the marching of Charlotte Co the Militia ordered to join Genl: Greene and asking further orders in tho premises—He begs to add. that at tho late approach of Lord Cornwallis, Activity of the whole of tho militia ordered had marched; many of whom were ^rf itia' without arms, because they could not be gotten—As Genl: Greene could not supply them, many were sent back to their homes, so that the entire force of the County, including those near Portsmouth had "performed a term of duty" in the field—Nevertheless should the order for sending the "156 men to the Southward" be repeated, it shall be obeyed. 3
Page 18
18 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Capt: Edmund Read, informs the Governor, that by a letter received April 7th from Col: Skinker of King George Co. this morning, he learns that two Port Royal, large Sloops and three small vessels of the Enemy had come up to Hooe's Caroline Co. perry, landed first on the Maryland Shore and did much mischeif, then Depredations crossed the river, and burned all Mr. Hooe's Houses, carrying off his of the enemy uegpoes an<i stock—Under these circumstances, he has determined to march at once to the assistance of the people, although his horses are very poor, hoping with the aid of "Gentlemen volunteers" of that place to drive off the plunderers. April 7th * WM. CAMPBELL AlD DE CAMP, TO GOV: JEFFERSON. Camp near "Sir, fc>co'ts I am honor'd with yours in Council of the 30th ulto. relative to the relief of the Militia, which I sincerely wish was arrived,—as it will be impossible to detain these in the field above a few days longer with our Desertions utmost endeavors; they already begin to be much dissatisfied, and deser- tion prevails apace— A number of the enemy's transports sailed yesterday & the day before. 'tis said they are gonc for New York to take on board a further rein- forcement to be commanded by Sr. Henry Clinton in person—they arc Enemy at indefatigable in strengthening & augmenting their works at Portsm'h, Portsmouth and from overy information I can gain, their intention is to make it a place of arms, & transferr the seat of War to this State. Nelson'sdra- this will be delivered by Lieut: Armstead of Nelson's D'goons, who goons goes up to sollicit a supply of Cloathing & necessaries for the Corps, which they are in the utmost want of, notwithstanding they were ordered in by Genl: Greene from the Southward to refitt.—they have ncver as yett received any Boots or Breeches, and although very unfitt to take the field, they have been doing very severe duty with the utmost chearful- ness. Genl: Muhlenburg's indisposition prevents him from writing." I have the Honor to be (by his com'd) your Excy's most obt Servant. April 8th J. PRENTIS TO GOV: JEFFERSON. Williamsh'g "Dear Sir, Resigns his The great inconvenience that has arisen to my private aveca- seat In the tions from a daily attendance at the Council Board, has impelled me to resign the Appointment—I must therefore request the favor of Your Excellency to transmit the enclosed Letter of resignation to the Speaker of the House of Delegates—Permit me to tender my respects to yourself and the Gentlemen of the Board, and to assure you, that I am with great respect, Yr: Excelly's most obt & most humble Servt—"
Page 19
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 19 COL: J. II. BROOKE TO THE GOVERNOR. 1781. April 8th The draft for the Continental Service is over, and all the men collected, Fauquier Co. delivered to Major Willis—Some still remaining in the County who were sick, but will be sent down as soon as possible—others will require to be compelled to march—The Beef, Clothing and Waggons required of the County will be duly delivered—Lieut: Col: John Blackwcll, appointed Deputy under Mr. Brown, will attend to delivering the Cattle; will send the wagon to the Q. Master at Fredoricksburg and take charge of the clothing. WM. DAVENPORT TO GENL: WEEDEN. April 8th "Dr. Sir, Newport I find that the Regulation of the Troops of this post will be Nows attended with some Confution Except some person can in writing, orders, have the whole direction. Capt: Kelly's orders only mentions that the detachments from the diforent Countys shall act in conjunction with him. Capt Wells of Warwick County, has marched his men within Insubordina- Three miles of Camp, and Refuses to march them any lower, unless he tion thinks proper. or can see some orders to Comm'd him. I sent to him this morning and ordered his Cavalry to Join mine, and his Infantry to Join Capt: Kelley—he sent me for answer, that if my Orders ware in writing from you, he should obey them, and not otherwise. A Small Sloop left Portsmouth last night, and came Two, of the point this morning, got under way and stood up James River. the Patroit at the same time was standing down. the latter gave chase and soon come up with the Sloop. They Amediately Ingaged, and was fighting upwards of Two Ours— The Patriot Twise attempted to Bord the Sloop, but fell Through in Capture of his attempt. the sloop cut away his main halliards and his Main Sail *** State p fell to the deck. the patriot cut a way the sloops peek tey. the sloop triot Run a long side the Patriot and fired a Broad Side in her. She Amedi- ately struck, and the men from the Sloop Borded her. they are now at anker of Francis James and seem very Bissey flitting their Sales. the men on bord the Patriot behaved very spirited—the Sloop has a large number of men on bord. There is a small Vesslo in a Creek opposit to the place that they now Watching lay—they sent a boat allmost to the mouth of the Creek, and it has enemy Returned. Should they attempt to send in for her, I will send them up prisoners to you before day. or shall be much disceaved— I will thank you to give the bearer an Order for some paper, as it is out of my power, to get a sheet at this place— I am with Respect Yr: Obt: Servt:"
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 20
20 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. P. S. "I think it would be necessary for to Receive my Countersines April 8th from you, in case I should send to you in the night—half a dozen at the time if you think proper." April 8th Williamsb'g Movements ro°Ps Character of to'the'lIriUsh General in changes° * *' The enemy about to BRIO: GENL: G. WEEDEN TO Gov: JEFFERSON. "Dr. Sir, I am honor'd with a resolution of Council of 4th Inst: & your previous Letter directing the disposal of the Militia, & have lodged orders at Hanover Court House, for the Commanding Officers, who arc directed to cross James River at Sandy Point & join Genl: Muhlenberg. The men from Frederick & Berkeley have ordered to join me, as from frequent application, have been obliged to discharge those men drawn out from this part of the Country, as also those from Gloster —" * * * "When I wrote to the British Genl. at Portsmouth on the subject of Exchange, I did not particularize. or even communicate a wish in favor of any Individual, as your Board may see by my Letter 2nd Inst: & Copy of which *s inclosed, leaving tho List for exchange entirely to the execu- tive; nor can I with any propriety ask any enlargement for any particu- lar person, without incurring the displeasure of those who would remain; as a request of that sort would not only carry marks of partiality with it, but might, if granted, be considered by the British Commander as an obligation. I therefore, in my letter of the 6th Inst:, which accompanied Armstead's Flag, only hinted at the justness of such a favor; it having been in many instances, granted the British Prisoners, leaving Mr. Arm- stead to mention Col: Curie, as the object of tho Hint — Nor could I dic- tate a Parole to Col. Curie. I am persuaded, he will sign nothing deroga- tory to his Honor, or the Laws of the State. I yesterday rec'd from Major Genl: Phillips, answer to my Letters of 2nd by Major Callis — Copy of which I have the honor to enclose. It would seem by Genl: Phillips' Letters, as well as by tho resolution of the Executive, that I had officially proposed Col: Curie against Col: Allegood — I beg your Excellency however to be satisfied, this was not the case, & further that I have not. nor will I concern with matters of this sort, but on a just & liberal Scale, first authorized by tho Executive or Commdg. Officer. I would wish at the same time to encourage the reciprocal advantages arising to each Side, in Liberal exchanges. it also seems to be the desire of Genl: Phillips, and as the List sent in by Mr. Armstead will not lib- erate tho whole of our prisoners in their Hands, can 1 not be authorized to assure the British Genl: that on sending tho whole of them out, that were taken in arms, an equal number shall be sent him, as soon as they can be marched from the Back Country? The Encmy arc making the greatest preparations for a move. It is a julK.tion w'tn Ld- Cornwallis is the Object. if so, tho doubt is,
Page 21
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 21 whether they will attempt it, by the Great Bridge, Cape Fear, or up 1781. James River & by Petersburg— April 8th All their ships are gone out, except a few that lay in Elizabeth River. I have the Honor, to be with high Esteem yr: Excellencies Most ob Servant. Ro: WOODING COUNTY LIEUT: TO THE GOVERNOR. April 8th Halifax Co. As soon as he was put in Command of that County, he enquired into Commissions the Condition of the militia, and finds the greater part of the Officers needed were serving under recommendations and appointments merely, but without Commissions—Under this state of things they would not be liable to punishment, if derilect in duty. He therefore begs to be sup- plied with a number of Blank Commissions, especially as the Order for Marching a reinforcement to Genl: Greene will be put into execution at once—He is greatly in want of paper. Endorsed. "Mr. Blair will be pleased to inclose two dozen blank Commissions to Colo: Wooding. TH: JEFFERSON." ED: BUTLER TO COL: DA VIES. April 8th He has sent a wagon and team as ordered to Mr. Southall, but ho Hanover Co. returns "her as insuficiont"—no better one can be gotten in the County. SAML: HUNTINGTON, PRES'T OK CONGRESS, TO Gov: JEFFERSON OF VA. April 9th Philadelphia Enclosing Act of Congress of 8th Instant, recommending to the Execu- Expected in- tives of Delaware, Maryland & Virginia to take immediate steps to remove v^'°n of Ma- all public stores, provisions, forage public & private, except what may be ginia, &c. necessary for the inhabitants, from the Peninsula between the Delaware and Chesapeake Bays, to prevent their falling into the hands of the Enemy—Horses should be added—This is occasioned by the intelligence from New York, threatening a move on the part of the Enemy upon the above mentioned Country. HENRY LEE Co: LIEUT: TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 9th "Sir, On the first Instant, a small schooner Vessel, tender to the Trimer Prince Wm. privateer belonging to Goodrichs Company with 21 men, commanded by
Page 22
22 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. April 9th Capture of a British pri- vateer and her men Their depre- dations on the way Steps taken to thwart their designs Mount Wer- non and Gun- ston Hall threatened one Dickson went up to Alexandria and in the night attempted to cut out before the Town a vessel belonging to Baltimore. fortunately they were discovered and the wind changing, prevented their succeeding. they immediately made off down the river, and were pursued by two Armed Wessels, and owing to a favourable north west wind was taken before they got to the Trimer w’ch with the “Supprise” and another sloop of War laid at Cedar point, belonging to the same Company—As soon as the Schooner found she must be taken, the men took to their boats and landed on the Virginia side of the River. 16 of them were taken by the inhabitants, 8 of whom were sent to Fred'sburg, from whence I hear they are sent to Winchester, the others were sent up in the vessel that pursued them, to Alexandria and are confined in that Joal. Among them is Dickson. The Privateers as they came up, took thirty negroes and the overseer, from a Plantation of Consellor Carters, at Coles' Point in Westmoreland, and have Plundered the Houses of Messres Gerard Hooe, John Washington, and many other persons of all their furniture & other valuable Effects, and taken off some negroes. On Friday last in the night (we had an acc’t yesterday from a man from Maryland) they went up Port Tobacco Creek, and there did great dam- age: Plundered the houses of Mr. Walter Hanson, Mr. Neale—carried Mr. Neale off and also a son of Mr. Hanson—Plundered the house of the Priest and many others. Mr. George Dent's houses, they burnt, and a fine stallion and two chair horses suffered in the flames. Mr. Law- son, Manager to Colo: Tayloe's Neabsco Iron Works near me, lost also a vessel loaded with 100 barrels of corn: was taken from Nanjamy. On receiving official notice from the County Lieutenant of Stafford that the Enemy were making up the River, and the Town of Dumfries with the Warehouses on Quantico Creek might be their object, and that the Inhabitants might be secured ag'st these Plunderers, I immediately ordered all the militia that could be armed, to rendezvous at the mouth of Quantico, and them having been there two days about forty then on duty—if the Enemy do not appear on the shifting of the wind, which being this two days at North west and ag'st them—I shall only keep a few look outs. if the Enemy had succeeded at Alexandria they intended, one of the Prisoners says, to have burnt Genl: Washington's Houses, Plundered Colo. Mason and myself, and endeavoured to have made me a prisoner—As the Act of Assembly impowers you to raise any number of horse, it would be adviseable to order a few horse to be raised in the different Countys on Potomac, and Constantly Keep in pay to give notice of the movements of the Enemy from time to time, w”ch would be of amazing utility and Quiet the Inhabitants in their Possessions, and save many family's from being Plundered—I hope to receive your Answer by the return of the Post with such orders as you may Please to give, weh shall be implicitly obeyed by Yr: Excellency's most obt. Servt.”
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 23
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 23

Col: Davies recommends to the Executive, that, as there is a good deal 1781. of work done at Dinwiddio Co. House "for the public," and as a good April 9th Blacksmith is much wanting there to complete the wagons, Mr. Harda- War Office way can be employed to do that work at 4 shillings pr. day. MAJR. RD: CLAIBORNE TO THE GOVERNOR,—enclosing extract of letter April 9th from M. Lafayette. "Sir, I have received the extract from the Marquis' letter respecting Richmond wagons to transport ammunition, with an order affixed from your Excel- lency to take measures to answer the demand. However easy it was for your Excellency to Issue such an order, the Failure to business is attended with so many difficulties that I am very fearful it Procure will not be in my power to comply with it. I beg leave to recommend tion to your Excellency my situation—I have failed in all my endeavours towards obtaining the wagons, agreable to the late provision law, that were to have been in actual service long before this! I am disappointed in the Waggons that were to be Brigaded by the County Commissioners agreablo to the orders of the Executive, and I have not a farthing of money! It is true that I have obtained a Warrant upon the State Treasury for a sum, but it has availed me nothing: I have made daily and almost hourly applications, but without success. Thus cir- cumstanced, and having no public Waggons in the State, but what are already appropriated, and that very necessarily: I ask Government for aid, or I must declinc the attempt, as I have no possible prospect of accomplishing the business. I have the honor to be with the highest respect & esteem, &c." Extract &c. Annapolis April 4th 1781— "I hear that Genl: Greene is in want of ammunition, and am going to Artillery for send on four field pieces to him, with twelve hundred rounds, and ncar one hundred thousand Cartridges—Gov: Lee has promised to have them forwarded to Fredcricksburg, where I hope they will meet horses and Waggons provided, as their speedy arrival at the Southern Army may prove to be of essential service." • In Council April 9th 1781. Major Claiborne will be pleased to take measures for the transporta- tion of the above— TH: JEFFERSON." (A. Copy)
Page 24
24 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: HENRY TOWLES, TO THE EXECUTIVE. April 9th Lancaster Co Recommending, that Mr. Wm. Chewning be exempt from payment of the "specific Tax," inasmuch as he has lately been plundered by the enemy— April 10th COL: DAVIES TO THE EXECUTIVE. War Office Drawing attention to the irregularities of the pay department, by Pay Depart- which many discharged soldiers have not received their dues — Suggests that a stipulated sum be placed in the hands of a good officer to pay off these arrearages, and recommends Capt: Hamilton for this duty. ment April 10th COL: WM. CHRISTIAN TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGA. Montgomery "Sir, "*- About the first of March Major Martin called on me, on his way from Genl: Greene's Camp, to the Great Island, and delivered me a Commis- sion signed by the General, a copy of which I now enclose to Your Indian affairs Excellency. Major Martin requested me to write to the Warriors upon the subject; which 1 did, and we concluded that it would be well for Colonels Arthur Campbell, Col: Shilby, Col: Severe, and Major Martin, who all live convenient, to endeavour to put the Business in motion. I have lately received a letter informing me, that they met at the Island on the 24th of March, wrote a letter to the Cheifs, and sent off an Indian with their Letter and mine; an answer to which is expected the latter end of this month. They also wrote to the Chickasaws, and desired an Answer in four months, but report says we can expect no Peace with that Nation while we maintain the Post at the Iron Bank. Col: Severe with about 180 Men on Horseback from Washington in Carolina, made an Incursion into the middle Cherokee settlements early in March; sur- prised one Village, at which he Killed & took some of their People, and plundered two other Villages, which the People evacuated. With the Prisoners, perhaps twenty women & Children, Some Horses and Goods ho hastened back, before the Warriors could Assemble. About 100 Cherokee Families is said to be subsisted in Georgia. People of all ranks appear to have a desire to encroach upon the Indian Lands: this will throw great obstacles in the way of a Treaty. They have been illtreated on the one Hand, and caressed on the other, so that I have very little hopes any thing can be done with them. The only great Inducements the Indians can have for treating: are for us to do them Justice respect- ing their Land, and to subsist their Families this Summer. As to the Land, Virginia is but little concerned. Col. Sevicr K°6s the Chicka- /
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 25
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 25 Last night Your Excellency's Letter was delivered mo, and I appre- 1781. hend some Difficulties may arise in the two Appointments, if the Indians April 10th should meet at the end of this Month. If a Meeting is brought about, great Expence will attend it, and I cant see what will be done without money, unless Your Excellency has ordered some to be sent up. For Loss of State should but Twenty Indians meet, they can't be subsisted a Day upon the credit credit of the State. I am Your Excellency's most ob Servant." COL: WM. PRESTON TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 10th He had received, on the day before, his Excellency's letter and other Montgomery Papers by the hands of "Wheeling the Messenger": and was then on °' his return from Montgomery Co. House, where he had been engaged Ingliss' with the Magistrates and Militia Officers, in laying off the County into Districts, preparatory to raising the quota of Troops for the Continenal service: and at the same time had given the Orders for raising the men required for Genl: Green's Army. He is however apprehensive of great Difficulty of difficulty in carrying out those measures, because "the Officers & men have been so harrassed with hard duty for near a year past" that they complain for want of time to provide for their families— Should the Cherokees be inclined to treat, which ho doubts, "the great distance to the Big Island ", his infirm health, and engrossing care of the Militia at this juncture, will he hopes excuse him from "attending on that business." With the "Return" of the strength of the Militia of Montgomery, which he will soon forward, ho will send to his Excellency a Justification of his conduct in carrying the Militia to North Carolina, in February last; as he hears "illiberal reflections" have beon made against him by gentlemen down the Country, who perhaps are as ignorant of the facts, as they are of the duties of a Militia Officer. CAPT: EDMD. READ TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April lOth "Sir, Since my arrival on this Rivor, the Enemy has not attempted to Boyd's Hole Land on the Virginia Shoar. they did great damage in many places on in Potomac the Maryland Side of the River—burnt and Destroyed wharever they Enemy's went, took off the whole of the Tobacco at Ceeder point, opposite Hooe's f Ferry. On Sunday evening the Enemy's vessels fell down from Ceeder Point about 30 miles. they this morning appeared against Mr. Hooe's, whare I was posted with my Dragoons & some few Militia, and I followed them along shoar to this place whare the Militia of this County (King George) is Posted. The whole of the Fleete amounted to two twenty 4
Page 26
26 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. four Gun Ships, two Eighteen & six Transports & Tenders—they seem April loth to be crowded with mon. the made no stop at this place, but stood up Strength of the River for Ellexandery. I think it my Duty to Lend every Assist- ance *° the militia on this River, and shall continue with them (in as poor order as my horses are in) until! they are disbanded, or your orders to the contrary. The militia Imbodyed at this place is abt. two hundred & 60 only that has armes. I have the honor to be Your Excellency's mo: obt. hble servant." April lOth MAJOR ALEX: DICK TO THE GOVERNOR. Camp Ever- He had received a letter from Col: Muter, saying the "throe State ar Regiments were to be consolidated into one, the oldest Commissioned, Officers to remain in Command. Ho is thus entitled to a Command, Asks for pay, should this arrangement take place—Begs for a duplicate order on the Cont'l Paymaster for his pay, having lost the original when the Enemy came to Richmond. His expencos more than double his pay, at the present rate of depreciation of the Currency. April 10th ROBT. WALTON TO GOV: JEFFERSON. Prince Ed- Sending him a Draft, drawn by Genl: Greene in his favor, for one hun- ward U>. d^^ and twenty six thousand pounds James River Tobacco, for horses delivered by him "for the use of the Legion," which were horses pur- chased by him for the Continental Delegates of the State of Georgia," who he expects will soon be on "to endeavor to have themselves re-elected in their own State" and will expect to receive of him their horses. A cash draft on the Treasury will answer, as he intends laying out the money at once in horses. April llth J. SKINKER TO Gov: JEFFERSON. "Sir, Boyd's Hole I rec'd your Excellency's Letter by Express Thursday morning last, directing mo to send 114 mon from this County to Williamsburg to perform a Term of Duty. late the same Evening I rec'd a Lcttei from Col: Stith on Potomack informing me that 3 large Schooners and some smaller Vessels of the Enemy were opposite Hooe's Ferry. they came Depredations too, and about 8-o-clock at night, landed at Mr. Garrard Hooes, plun- lf th? ene™y dered his House, and what they could not carry away, they uttterly ginia side destroyed. they also took off 4 of his negroes and set fire to his House, w'ch the Capt: of the Gang permitted the overseer to extinguish. they y'n proceeded a few miles up the river to Mr. Ilobt. Washington's, where
Page 27
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. the same horrid scene was again renewed with every agravating cir- 1781. cumstance that can be conceived. they carried off 4 of his negroes and April llth destroyed almost every article of his Furniture that Gent: was possessed of; they y'n returned on board, and the next day landed on the Mary- On the Mary- land Shore, and proceeded to Mr. Dents whore (as we heard a good deal of firing) they were opposed, but without effect, as we soon discovered all that Gent's fine buildings in flames. their next object was the Roman Priests House,'w'ch they robbed of every thing they could carry off, and y'n went to Mrs. Hanson's, whom they also plundered. Their Ves- sels y'n returned down the River and came too, off Cedar Point. they landed and were opposed by a small party of militia, tho' I apprehend without much effect, as I am inform'd they took of the Tobacco that was in the Warehouses at that place. Sunday morning they proceeded down the River, and was in hopes that I sh'd be able to discharge the militia and comply with your requisition, but before that took place, I rec'd an Express from Colo. Washington, informing me that several large ships were coming up Potomack. in a few hours after we could distin- guish 3 lying at Anchor, where they continued, as the wind was strong agst: them 'til yesterday morning, when they got under way and pro- ceeded up the River. they consist of 4 ships, none less y'n 20 Guns, Strength of two Brigs and two Tenders. As the wind was fair I do imagine they f^8™"^ would get up as high as Dumfries yt. Evening. it is generally conjee- prehensions tured Alexandria is their object—On their return, I am apprehensive wo tnerefrom shall receive a visit from them, and am really sorry to inform your Excel- lency, that not a third of my militia have arms fit for service—it has never been in my power to procure the 150 Guns, you sent me an order for on the Managers of the Factory at Fredericksburg—As tho scitua- Necessity of tion of tho Inhabitants of Potomk. is very alarming & distressing and we have near 30 miles of County to protect from the depredations of &c. these Pirates. I beg your Excellency & the Council w'd take the matter under consideration & countermand the order for sending 114 mon with Guns, (w'ch is impossible to spare) from this County. I am now encamp'd at this place & shall continue 'til the ships return down. we are endeav- oring to secure the. public Tob. w'ch is very considerable, and I think in great danger, as the Houses are on the edge of the bank, and their ves- sels can come within 150 yards of the shore. I am under the greatest Capt. Read's obligations to Capt Read and his Troop of Horse, who on informing him cavalry of my scituation immediately Join'd and is now with me, and I do expect if tho Enemy sh'd land, will render us very essential service. I shall be highly oblig'd to your Excellency to write to me by the return of the Express— I am Sir, with great Esteem yr: Excellency's mo: obt: & Hble Servant."
Page 28
28 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: JAMES CALLAWAY TO THE GOVERNOR. April llth Bedford In obedience to instructions from the Executive, has ordered out the three hundred and eighty men to join the Southern Army; but as informa- tion has reached him that Genl: Greene is so far South, that it will be Want of men almost impossible for them to reach him in time, he begs to suggest that the men be allowed to remain at home at this particularly important period of the year, in order to attend to their crops, &c.—By Col: Lynch, who is just from Genl: Greene's Hd: Quarters at Deep River, about one Cornwallis hundred and forty miles disdant, he learns that Ld: Cornwallis "had pasd: Cross-Creek on his way to Wilmington," before he left there. 'Mr. Ewing the "Express" "finds himself a horse and pays his own expences." Hopes he will receive adequate pay for his services— April nth COL: WM. DA VIES TO THE GOVERNOR. War Office Asking instructions as to recovering an amount of powder lent the Continental Service, now needed for the use of a Privateer. April llth Wm. Hay informs Col: Davies he has despatched an Express to tra- Richmond verse the Country about the Lead Mines in search of that article, but Want of lead as he has not returned, does not know how much can be gotten. He has two thousand pounds of Powder in Manchester, which should be sent to Westham—other articles also, Hope, Flints &c—all which should be handed over to the Commissary of Mil: Stores. April llth W. BROWN S. C. M. STORES TO COL: DAVIES. Ordnance, Urging the removal of the Stores from New Castle, and desiring Capt: *°- Pryor to send some one to take charge of them—There are fifteen can- non at South Quay, but no other stores—Ho sent a return of the Mus- kets at Dinwiddie Co. House, as also an acct. of the work done at that place. April llth GARRET VNMETER COL: COMG. TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Hampshire He has just received his Excellency's letters of the 26th & 27th ult: requiring two hundred and forty two of the County Militia to march at once to Williamsburg, but apprehends difficulty in executing this order. Continues "I am sorry to inform your Excellency, that a dangerous insur- rection has lately arrisen in this County, occasioned by the execution of
Page 29
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 29 the late Acts of Assembly for Recruiting this States Quota of Troops to 1781. serve in the Continental Army, and the Act for supplying the Army April 11th with Clothes, Prisoners & Waggons: in consequence of which the Col- Insurrection lector of the Tax under the former Act has been opposed in the Execu- 'a°d opnosi-* tion of his Duty, and has been obliged to desist from any further pro- tion to the ceeding therein, and although every measure that prudence could sug- ^c"' gest has been taken, to suppress the Rioters, yet it has proved^nefectual by reason of their having a superior force—I therefore thought it my duty to lay this matter before your Excellency, and hope such measures will be taken in consequence of the late Act of Assembly for giving your Exce1lency farther powers &c. as shall be thought requisite." Geo: Bird, one of the Commissioners to collect the specific Tax on April 12th Grain, Tobacco &c asks instructions of the Executive, as to whether he Middlesex shall credit those citizens who fed their grain to the cattle they agreed to keep for the State, with the amount thus used, on account of the quantity due from them. Mr. Wm. Chewning a deputy Commissioner seized a number of cattle, and under supposed instructions from Mr. Brown had consented that this should be done. CAPT: JOHN OBANNON TO THE EXECUTIVE. April 12th Urging his claim to succeed Major Aylett Buckner as Major of the Williamsb'g Fauquier Battalion, who has been forced to resign on account of ill- health—He is recommended by the County Officers— COL: FRA: TAYLOR TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 12th When Col: Wood returned on the 9th inst: he ordered a Board of Offi- Winchester cers to assemble, and decide as to the right of the men enlisted to serve at Albemarle Barracks to their discharge—As a consequence three com- panies have been discharged: nearly all the others set up the same Disorganized claim, and so many have deserted, because of the great dissatisfaction st,^ij° on this hand, that in a short time scarcely men enough will be left to do the necessary guard duty: and these are nearly naked. He thinks they should all be discharged, and the Officers retired: thinks one hundred men to be raised in that County will suffice as a guard—concludes "I Injustice to am sorry to mention again to your Excellency the injustice or partiality officers with which our officers have been treated by not being allowed to have the depreciation of their pay, in common with others. The West- ern Battalion had not been more than half the time in service, when the
Page 30
30 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. resolution was made, and the officers belonging to it, have received their April 12th money for depreciation." Requests that their case be brought before the next Genl: Assembly. April 12th Richmond Impressed horses MAJOR CLAIBORNE TO THE GOVERNOR. Respecting the horses lately impressed & purchased for the expedition to Portsmouth, now collected at Petersburg by orders of Baron Steuben. Many of the owners are willing to take them back and give up their certificates—He has directed Capt: Holmes, who succeeded Mr. Elliott, to receive these; and to send all the horses remaining, up to pasturage near Carters Ferry. , April 12th War Office Philadelphia Relief for prisoners, and how to delivered Want of arms and money WILLM. GRAYSON, TO Gov: JEFFERSON OF VA. "Sir, In answer to your Excellency's letter of March 31st, referred to the Board by Congress, they beg leave to observe that they think it will be proper for the flag vessel to proceed round from James River to Poto- mack & land their cloathing, refreshments, money &c: designed for the prisoners at George Town, in the State of Maryland; then to be rec'd by two officers of the Convention Troops and conveyed to the Post of Winchester and Fort Frederick, at their owi expence. The Board are of opinion, that at this particular Crisis, there aught not to be the least communication between the flag vessel and the Officers of the Convention Troops; the former aught to depart immediately after the goods are landed. The Board have wrote to Colo. Wood to send forward y'r offi- cers, who are to receive the goods and money for the prisoners, in com- pany with an American Officer, and it may be expected that they will be at George Town, by the time of the arrival of the flag Vessel at that Post. ' The Board are very sensible of the want of Arms in your State, and will use their utmost endeavors to foward on those which have come from Rhode Island; their is no other impediment to their moving imme- diately, but the extreme want of money; there is the same objection to Genl: Wayne's departure with the Penna. Line; he is in perfect readi- ness as to every thing else—With respect to the Marquis la Fayette, and the Detachment under his command, it is at present uncertain whether they will proceed to the Southward or not; this a matter however, which. will altogether depend on the Commander in Chief— I have the honor to be yr: Excellency's Most: obt Servt." "By order of the Board."
Page 31
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 31 COL: SENF TO THE GOVERNOR. 1781. April 12th Urging the sending of "Hands" to Hoods as Soon as possible. He will Richmond be there himself to receive them, put them to work and keep account thereof—The tools needed can be carried down in a row boat—Asks for Hoods a Warrant, by which he can hire wagons, oxen, Horses &c.r giving cer- tificates for the same, as vouchers. LINDSY OPIE AND JAMES BALL TO THE EXECUTIVE. April 12th Asking for permission to go under Flag of truce, on board certain of Northum- the Enemy's armed vessels, the "Trimmer" Capt: Phillips, and the "Sur- berland Co. prise" Capt Ross, in search of absconded slaves said to be in those ves- sels. They have lost so many, and the people generally have been robbed Loss of prop- of so much property of late by British plunderers, that it is necessary er'y by tte to recover these "valuable fellows" if possible—The want of arms and ammunition very much felt—Col: Gaskins' house was burnt by the enemy the morning before— BRIO: GENL W. WEEDEN TO MAJR: GENL: PHILLIPS. April 12th "Sir, I am honor'd with your polite Letter of the 6th Inst:, and shou'd Williamsb'g have paid earlier respect to it, but from some circumstances which una- voidably occasion'd delay—I am now to thank you for your particular attention to my two Flags, bore by Col: Mathews and Major Callis, of which I retain a grateful Sense. And also approve your liberal proposals Agrees to his respecting exchange and paroles, and do on my part close with you, so Pr°P°salsi&c far as my authority may in any case extend, and that we may the better understand each other, shall be explicit in what I mean as the lino of my conduct, while commanding here. I will with great chearfulness, contribute as far as in my Power, to render the circumstances of the War, as little aflicting as possible, more especially by encouraging exchanges on just Principles and giving Paroles where exchanges are not subject to my Will—With respect to Officers, the right of turn in Principles of exchange, I consider as sacred, and cannot consent to anything by which the excnBnSe these Gentlemen shall be postpon'd, who have been the longest in cap- tivity, but I freely agree to paroling them on both Sides 'till exchang'd by regular turn. With respect to privates, I think myself right, when I say I cannot consider any Prisoners of War, but such as are taken actually in Arms, or are in the service of the States. Any Prisoners taken by our militia, while no Continental Troops are acting with them are subject to the separate disposal of the State, untill deliver'd over to the Continental Commissary of Prisoners. the number of these at pros-
Page 32
32 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. ent with us I do not know, they may or may not increase. I consent April 12th chearfully, as far as they extend, or shall extend to exchange them for such of our militia as has been, or shall be taken in Arms. As to those which have been put into possession of the Continental Commissary of Prisoners, they can be only exchang'd or enlarg'd under Continental Authority; in which case the Commanding Officer in the State must be consulted—I will certainly do every thing in my power to promote it in The Civil the fullest Latitude, whenever I may have the Honor to Command. You are too we^ iirforai'd of the profession of arms, not to know, the Mili- tary are by no means answerable for the Resolution of the civil; and I should be sorry to see the rigour of War extended to the innocent on acc't of any thing done by them, that may or may not be approved— this far however I think I can venture to say that while a liberal and just conduct is observ'd on your part, the Authority of this State will not be wanting in similar professions. I have the Honor to be, with sentiments of personal Esteem and Regard, Your most obt Servt." April 12th COL: DA VIES TO THE GOVERNOR. "Sir, War Office I was desired by the Baron, before his leaving town to lay before your Excellency, an extract of a letter from Genl: GVeene, which uninten- tionally he omitted to present to you yesterday, altho' I think he said ho had conversed with you on the subject. His great anxiety for an immediate supply of ammunition to be fowarded to Genl: Greene has induced him to press the matter with so much importunity upon you. Absolute 1 cannot well tell what to expect from Major Claiborne, with respect to the transportation of tno Ammunition at Fredericksburg, as he Sometimes tells me his deputy there can collect what number of waggons he chuses, . from the great estimation he is held in by the people, and at other times, that nothing can be done for want of money, altho' he confesses that waggons have been received from three or four adjoining Counties to Want of lead that place. As to the article of Lead, will it not be proper to direct the immediate purchase of all that can be got in this part of the country. There is some at Manchester & probably there may be some in this town, and no doubt in many other places in the State—It is of essential moment, and even if Mr. Ross should succeed in procuring a quantity in the neighborhood of the mines, Still the lead can always be sold and the State no loser. As to the means of transporting it, we had better take the direction of it, in a great measure to ourselves, as the Continental Quarter-Master's department in this State is too much governed by punctilio and nicety ever to effect much—
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 33
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 33 If we could establish a Saddler's Shop, enlarge the number of hands 1781. of the Carpenter's business, and build log houses ncar Westham for their April 12th temporary accommodation, 'till these nicer buildings projected by Colo. Westham Senf, can be executed, we should soon feel the advantage. I have pre- ^j ^"fse f vailed upon Barron Steuben to consent to my getting a number of hands for this purpose, from Chesterfield; and if the Government have. no objection I will take measures for beginning the business next Monday. I have the honor to be Sir, Your Excellency's most hblo Servant." ROBT. MlTCUELL TO GOV: JEFFERSON. April 12th "Sir, Yesterday, on my arrival at Alexandria, I ibund the town in much Georgetown, confusion, occasioned by a Small Fleet that appeared off the town—say, three Ships appears to mo to be of 18 Guns each, the other I could not make out what number of Guns she mounted, but beliovo her to be a Frigate. The Lieutenant of the County, expecting a sufficient number of militia Excitement from the country (before the shipping could got up) to defend the Town, uPon *hef *P" had the Colours hoisted in tho Fort, but finding the militia did not come enemy's fleet In so fast as he had reason to expect, by the porsuation of the Inhab- itants tho Colours were taken down. Shortly after, two Ships, one Brig & a Schooner came to anchor, under French Colours near the Fort—tho Ship which was behind, coming up, got ashore, which occasioned thoso that were at anchor opposite the Town, to get under way to her assist- ance—in doing which tho Brig run ashore. Colo. Fitzgerald intended getting one of tho two twelve pounders from the Fort to a point opposite the Brig for to play on her. had there been any Boats at tho Town sho might have been taken—to-day there has been no news rec'd from Alex- andria, further than tho militia are turning out well—numbers have gone from this place. The Pennsylvania Lino, consisting of 1,200, is expected here to-mor- The Penn- row—four pieces of their Artillery, and a largo q'ty of ammunition is Wvania already arrived. I have tho honour to be your Excellency's most ob Hb Servant." P. S. "Since writing tho above, a Gentleman has arrived from Balti'o Embarka- who says there is certain accounts there, of an embarkation taken place ""1 New at New York of 5000 men, under Sir Henry Clinton, intended to take post at the Head of Chesapeake Bay, between that and the Delaware."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 34
34 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. F. WEBB, COM: TREAS'Y, TO THE GOVERNOR. April 12th "Sir, We have no Continental money on hand, and do not think any can be procured—There stil remains 950 Dollars, 1 for 40—I imagine specie Scarcity of could be purchased if you chuso to have it done. m°n°y Iam&c:" Treasury i )ffico April 12th CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DA VIES. Richmond Recommending the purchase of a quantity of Lead, Powder, flints,— coarse blue cloth, and white; a large quantity of linnen or canvass Suit- able for Tents, in the possession of Mr. Mo: Banks. Flints & files he wants to send off at once. Mr. Smith has gone to take a receipt for the military stores sent to Hood's—As soon as the supposed loss is known, ho will make report. April 13th Powell's Valley Sta- tion Ranging in Powell's Valley, &c. AARON LEWIS TO COL: ARTHUR CAMPBELL, WASHINGTON Co. Informing him that he arrived at that place on the 28th March, and awaited the arrival of the "Sulivau Militia six days; but hearing nothing of them, and supposing they were not coming; with the advice of Capt: Nevill and others ho determined to "range down the Valley" in search of Indians—After a march of some thirty miles below the Gap in pur- suit of a party of Indians the time of Capt: Nevill's men expired, and they would not go any farther. Finding a large body of Indians had passed behind them, returned; but found they had done no damage— He is sorry to hear that Colo. Martin has disapproved of this expedition. April 13th COL: WM. PRESTON TO Gov: JEFFERSON. 'Sir, count Montgomery Enclosed, I have sent your Excellency a return of the militia of **• this County, according to the lists delivered by the Captains a few days People com- past. I expect the number will increase fast, as many people have count"*° removed and are removing from the troubles of the Southern States, to take shelter here for a time, until the storm blows over. This induces me to hope that your Excellency will order this militia to be divided into two battalions & send the Commissions accordingly; as it would be a great ease to the officers & men in a county so broken with mountains & so extensive as this. A number of blank Commissions is much wanted; as many officers have been recommended by court, & have done duty, for whom I have no Commission to fill.
Page 35
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 35 Sometime ago, I made application to Mr. Rowland Madison for the 1781. quantity of powder and the number of Flints, which your Excellency April 13th had informed me had been ordered up the Country by him for the use Want of of this County. His answer was that he received none but what was fl^s" a for the use of the Western Expedition; which laid me under the neces- sity of purchasing powder at a very high price to supply the militia who were ordered to Carolina. At present we have none, & should the Draughts now ordered to join Gen'l Greene be raised, I am doubtful their march will be prevented for want of that necessary Article. I am very apprehensive that the number of men demanded on this Fears in re- occasion cannot be raised. It is the general opinion of the Officers, as f^I tn^ m«m well as my own opinion, that nearly onc half of our own militia are dis- required, on affected, & therefore cannot be drawn into the service either by threats ^affection or otherwise; & should they be punished according to Law, they would &c. cither withdraw to the mountains, or embody and disturb the peace of the County. This consideration has prevented the Court Martial from putting the Law in execution against them. Add to this, that five com- Exposed panies make a frontier of more than eighty miles, who cannot be drawn *'""''" out at this season of the year, without leaving their families exposed to the Savages, who have already committed depredations amongst the Frontier inhabitants. Thus the defection of many, and the exposed sit- uation of others have laid the whole Burthen of the Service on lens than half the militia, who have suffered therein, both in their persons and property. This Sir, is a just representation, as far as I am able to judge. On the 8th of February last, I called a number ef the Officers together Steps taken to consult on a plan for raising a body of men on the Frontiers, for the '° defence of the country against the Common Enemy; at which time country intelligence was brought, that the British Troops under Lord Cornwallis were marching up the Country towards the Moravian Settlements, & that it was more than probable a party would be detached to destroy the Lead Mines, as the distance was not great, & the confusion of the Country beyond description. Having such early intelligence of the approaching danger, I believed it my duty to order out all the militia I could raise, without waiting any other call, than that of the danger to which the Country stood exposed — In this I was seconded, by every Officer present, & in order to encourage old & young to go, who were fit to bear arms, I not only proposed to go myself, but sent for my son, just turned of sixteen, from a school in another County — I went to the Lead Mines, where the militia were to rendezvous & continued there & in the neighborhood until the 18th, when I marched with about 350 riflemen, mostly on horseback ; with them I proceeded bylongmarches, until Ijoined Joins Gen. Genl: Pickens, by Genl: Greene's Order, at no great distance from Hills- Pickens borough, & within three miles of Tarlton's Legion, who had repassed Haw River. The disaffected & some others whom I had drawn out, deserted. With the remainder we did hard duty under Genl: Pickens,
Page 36
36 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. April 13th Be verses, and desertion of his men Did as well as any that went from over the mountains State of the lead mines and necessity of protecting them twelve or fourteen days on the Enemy's lines, greatly straitened for provisions. Part of the men were in one action, & the whole in a sec- ond; in both overpowered by numbers, & in the last broken & dispersed with the loss of their blankets. After which no arguments that could be made use of, by myself or the other officers could induce the remain- ing few to continue another week, the time Gen'l Greene requested— After staying a few days at the Moravian Towns, to have the wounded taken care of Colo. Crocket and myself came homo, accompanied by only two or three young men. It gave me great pain, that our militia returned so soon; but I will venture to say, they did duty on the Enemy's lines, as long as any other that went from behind the mountains, & much longer than some—I obeyed every order, that I received from Genl: Greene or Genl: Pickens, or Colo. Williams of the Maryland Lino & underwent the same fatigue, watching, fasting & Danger, that any other Militia Officer did while I was on duty. I beg Sir, you will pardon the trouble of this detail of facts, which I lay before your Excellency to remove any impressions that might be made on your mind, or that of the Honourable Board, by idle rumours, propagated, I suppose by the unthinking & inactive part of mankind— I beg leave to observe that it is not in my power to get militia to guard the mines. That they are in some danger from the disaffected. That the Workmen & Managers are in great distress for want of meat & that they inform mo there is the fairest prospect of ore they have had a long time; which they beleive will turn to a considerable advantage to the State, could they be protected and supported. Such was their distress lately, that I was affraid the business would be retarded & there- fore advised Col: Lynch's assistant to purchase a little bacon with lead for the present, until Colo. Lynch would return or some steps be taken to get a supply. I am-your Excellency's most obt & very hblo Servant." April 13th Rosewell Distressed state of the people of Gloucester Co. JOHN PAGE TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Earnestly desiring him to suspend the execution of the Assessment and Recruiting Act, until the 1st day of May, in consideration of the alarming and distressed state of the County, occasioned by the con- tinued depredations of the enemy upon an exposed and defenceless people.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 37
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 37 COL: WM. DA VIES TO THE GOVERNOR. 1781. "Sir, April 13th As it would be proper for us, I suppose, to make use of the same War Office kind of parole that the British require of us, which is very restricted in its terms, I will be obliged to your Excellency to favor me with a copy, or the original parole signed by Govn. Hamilton." I am &c:—" M. DELIEURIEUX TO Gov: JEFFERSON OF VA. .April 13th (In French.) L. Marye, a merchant of that City who sends to Virginia his Brigan- Port au tine, the Darth, Capt: Davis under Commission of the Colony proposes Prince to load on his return with Corn and Salt Meats; begs this favor may be allowed, as it will be an essential service rendered; especially when it is remembered, what aid had been supplied the Colony when in such utter want—The vessel is consigned to M. David Ross & Co., who he prays may be engaged to foward such a cargo of the above mentioned provi- sions, which will place him under lasting obligations, &c:— MAJOR Ro: CLAIBORNE TO THE GOVERNOR. April 13th Richmond Desiring to borrow a small supply of oil from Capt: Thomas at War- Wants of the wick, as the Continental Commissary of Hides has none—Mr. Marks has Cent. Q- M. gone to Philadelphia for supplies for his Department, and will return it when ho gets back—Asks also for an order for all tho Grain to be col- lected in the Counties composing the Districts of Charlottesvillo, Canton Ferry & Boyd's Ferry, as he wishes to collect it into "Magazines," that its transportation may regularly go on, to the Southern Army. COL: JOSEPH HOLMES TO THE GOVERNOR. April 13th Acknowledging receipt by Express of sundry orders to the County Winchester Lieutenant, in whose absence, the business falls upon himself. He will cause a draft to be had as soon as possible, but apprehends difficulty in raising the men required. Very few marched to the Westward, but he has had to furnish heavy guards to the Prisoners of War, sent thro' Guards fur- Maryland to Pennsylvania as far as Lancaster and Philadelphia—The nished Convention Troops are still in Barracks near Winchester, and he has to furnish guard over them, as all those from Albemarle are discharged— The demand upon Frederick County in this way has been very great.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 38
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. and he begs his Excellency will distribute this duty more generally. April 13th Sixty additional Cabins are needed to accommodate the increasing num- Demands ber of prisoners; and he would continue to build them, but has no money to pay for those already finished—He had to erect a large "shingled roof House" for their Quarter Master's Department. and is constantly harrassed for the money to pay for it. upon the county, &c. April 13th Major Claiborne encloses to the Executive, information from Mr. Richmond* Young his Assistant at Fredericksburg of the 10th inst that "sixteen Wagon wagons loaded with Military Stores &c passed thro' town this evening & Phi"adei°™ia ^ moro will be here, with stores & cavalry accoutrements—14 more will arrive in a few days, all from Philadelphia." April 13th MAJOR THOS: HAMILTON TO THE GOVERNOR. Richmond In accordance with his Orders, has allowed the Prisoners of war men- tioned, the "liberty of the Town"—Among those left in Prison, who desire the same privilege, is "a Capt: Carre & one Davis" in Irons. He does not know what Charges are against them. April 13th COL: GEO: SLAUGHTER TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Louisville Enclosing Copy of the proceeding of a Court of Enquiry in the case of Capt: James Francis Moore, charged with irregular & dishonest con- duct in his department; acknowledges he has not proved the accusations and in justice to the accused desires to make any reparation required at his hands. He has trusted too much to the reports of other persons. April 13th COL: THOS: GASKINS TO THE GOVERNOR. Northum- He has enlisted only three men enlisted for the war, viz Thos: Giles. berland Co. Michael Taylor & Thomas Harding, and forty for the present DrafV- Adds "we have great distinction in and about our place by the Barberous & Cruel Pirating Vessells, by stealing our negroes &c—I had my Dwell- ing house Burnt to ashes on Wednesday morning, with considerable loss, w'ch you may be fully informed by the Bearer Mr. Jessee Crowder."
Page 39
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 39 JAS. MERCER TO Gov: JEFFERSON. 1781. "Dear Sir, April 14th It would be an affront to your Excellency's understanding Frederic'sb'g was I to make an apology to the first Magistrate of this State for com- municating any Facts or even Hints that might contribute to your bet- ter Information in your public Character. I shall therefore without appollogy proceed to inform your Excellency, that from my own knowl- edge of the County & the uniform opinion of all I have converted with on the subject, there is not in this State a place more deserving of public attention than this Town and its appendage Mr. Hunter's Iron Works— I am sure I need not tell you, that it is from Mr. Hunter's Works that every Camp Kettle has been supplyed for the Continental & all other Troops employed in. this State & to the Southward this year past—that all the Anchors for this State & Maryland & some for the Continent have been procured from the same works; that without these works we have no other resource for those articles, and that without the assistance of the Bar Iron made there, even the planters hereabouts & to the Southward of this place wou'd not be able to make Bread to cat—As to the Town itself, I need not inform you that the public manufactory of Arms is here— that without it, all our Arms, however so little injured wou'd be useless to us; besides the number of now muskets & bayonets made there, ren- ders that an object worthy our preserving & the Enemy's destruction— To this however, I may add that there is not one spot in the State so generally usefull in our military operations—full one-third of all new Levies rendezvous here; all the Troops from North & South & South to North must pass through this Town, whero wagons are repaired, horses shoed & many other &c as which they could not proceed on without. the Troops get provisions hero to the next Stage, & no place is so conve- nient to a very extensive & productive Country for the reception of Grain & other Articles of Provision. If this state of facts is admitted, can it be doubted but that the Encmy will consider it as one of their first objects to deprive us of so many advantages to their prejudice— The Foundary was thought an object worthy their attention & this from information only—But now far more certain that this place will be thought so when Genl: Phillips has himself been an eye witness that there are such advantages hero & has so often seen the conveniences drawn from this place by all our Troops both regulars & militia. I will not say more, but to tell you that yesterday's experience produced proofs of our very alarming situation. Six Armed Vessclls went up Potomack River on Wedncsday night; on thursday they were said to be nine & more, with about five hundred Troops. Colo. Towles, the Commanding Officer, not doubting this to be an object, set himself about its defence with as much vigour as possible. but behold not more than eighty mus- kets cou'd be procured (and these repaired arms & without bayonets)— abt. 60 more guns of all sorts compose the whole; and where are the
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 40
40 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. rest? with our militia before Portsmouth & at Williamsburg! Even April 14th men are wanting, there being now two Drafts of militia from Stafford & Prince William & Fairfax, now the scene of war & this County as vul- nerable of at Williamsburg & other places not ncar the conse- quence to this State as this place is—Colo. Towles, writing by the same opportunity will make it unnecessary for me to nay any thing abt. the want of flints &c ca. I write at his desire, and am at all times, and with great Esteem & respect, your Excellency's most obedt & very humble servt." April 14th GARRET VANMETER Co. COM: TO GOVERNOR JEFFERSON. Hampshire Enclosing "Return" of Two Battalions in that county—Instructions County had come from Genl: Clarke not to march the militia until further Orders—Ho has issued the order for the full number required by the Draft, but, adds, "I am afraid they will not be eomplyed with, by Reason of the disaffected people amongst us. (A Collector of one of the Divi- sions for making up the Cloathes and Beef was Interrupted in the exe- cution of his office). A certain John Claypole said if all the men were of his mind, they would not make up any Cloathes, Beef or Men, and all that would join him shuld turn out. Upon which he got all the men present, to five or six and Got Liquor and Drank King George the third's health, and Damnation to Congress,) upon which Complaint was made to three Magistrates. Upon which there was a warrant Issued for sev- eral of them, and Guard of Fifty men with the Sheriff. When they came to the place they found sixty or seventy men embodied, with arms—After some time they capitulated. the Sheriff served the pre- cept on the said John Claypolo, but ho refused to come with him or give up his arms; but agreed to come such a time, which time is Passt— Inclosed you have a Copy of a Letter they sent me, and the answer I sent them—I was Informed there was ono hundred and fifty of them to Gether the next Day. I am informed there are several Deserters amongst those people, Some from the English Prisoners. Some Eighteen Months men, and some Eight Months men, which they support and con- ceal." Refers his Excellency to Mr. Woodson the bearer for further par- ticulars. The letter enclosed, with reply— "Sir, / Having consulted the Majority, it is the Desire of the, that their Conduct that has past Lately may be forgiven, as a great part of it was occasioned by Liquor, and as there is things that is Laid to the Charge of Sum, that is clear of the Charge. but moreover we acknowledge our behaviour was not Discreet. if you would Please to pass it by, we will submit to pay our Tax as the Law directs; and are willing to pay our
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 41
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 41 District tax of Beef & Clothing if they can be purchased, and likewise to 1781. be Complyable to the Laws of the State, as far as our ability will allow. April 14th At the Request of the majority I have hereunto set my hand— From Sir, yr: humble Servant JOSIAH OSBURN." To Colo. VanMctcr—April 3d 1781. Reply. April 4th 1781. "Sir, I rec'd yours dated the third Inst: and am very Glad to hear the Mutineers Begin to see their Folly. they may Depend 1 shall shew them all the Lenity the circumstance of the Case will admit of, but those chargable with breaking the Law I cannot clear, as I am but an Indi- vidual, unless they who are in the warrant Comes in and Clears them- selves—from your friend, while you arc friends to yourselves and the United States. GARRET VANMETER." To Josiah Osburn— BRIG: GENL: G. WEEDEN TO GOVR. JEFFERSON. April 14th "Dear Sir, I am honor'd with the resolution of Council 10th Inst: & as Williamsb'g Genl: Philips' Letter dated 6th demanded an answer from mo, have con- fined it chiefly to the very words of the Council, Copy of which have .the Honor to enclose. I am desirous of cultivating the Liberal Ideas held out by the British Genl: to those who arc unfortunate; as nothing but reciprocal advantages can result from it, & I am happy to find the Honble. Executive will authorize these Officers to nourish it on just & equitable Grounds—I was in hopes of getting such as were not exchanged, enlarged on parole, by promising that an equal number should be sent in, as soon as they could be march'd from Winchester, & requested in my last Letter on the Subject, leave to make the overture; but as the Executive have not made any reply to that part, could not say to the British Commander that it should be done. I am just setting off to Potomac by order of the Baron, & shall pass through the Northward Neck. will take the earliest opportunity of advising your Excellency of every Hostile Occurenco in that Quarter. Major Bradford, my Aid do Camp, will have the Honor of delivering you this & will inform you particularly of any thing you may wish to enquire about in this quarter, to whom I refer you—I would thank your Excellency for a warrant for about 7 or 8000 Pounds on acct. of my Pay. 1 have drawn nonc for upwards of two Years & am in want of a supply. I have the Honor to be &c." 6
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 42
42 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO THE EXECUTIVE. April 14th Richmond Enclosing extract of a letter from Capt: Holmes, his Asst: Dept: Quarter Master at Petersburg, in which he is informed, that all his workmen, tailors &c have deserted because they have been drafted, and Baron Stcuben refuses to exempt them from military duty in the field— All his operations cease on this account—Asks for instructions in the premises. April 14th COL: GEORGE SKILLEN TO Gov: JEFFERSON. BotetourtCo. Before the Orders of the 15th inst: were received, he had ordered draft of three hundred and fifty men to go to the aid of Genl: Greene; and upon the continued approach of the Enemy had turned out the entire force of the County, who were just about marching, when his Excellency's Orders for only one fourth of the militia, arrived—Of those who marched nearly two hundred and forty returned without orders; this number so great, to attempt a trial of them by Court Martial would have beon hazardous. Some excuse may be made for these men, in as much as they were hurried off from homo entirely unprepared for such a long march, and the time of the year being so important to the plant- ing and sowing their crops, by which alone their families are to be sup- ported, especially as "they have not a creature to act for them" but their wives and children—The return of so many men from- Genl: Greene's Army, he admits is inexcusable; but begs to assure his Excel- lency, it is not "from any Coolness in the Cause; as they have always discovered the greatest alacrity & zeal;" and ho is convinced they will, "on any pressing Emergency turn out to a man," but is solely due to the apprehensions they had of the utter ruin and Starvation of their fami- lies—On this account and upon consultations with all the other Field Officers of the County, they join him in the earnest wish, that the Gov- ernor will for the present suspend the execution of the Draft. April 14th Col: Wm. Call informs the Governor, he has assembled the people of Prince the County, and submitted his proposition of the 12th Inst: to them, George Co. losing to the relief for Genl: Muhlenburg—Onc fourth part are now going down to him; one third are already there; and those remaining, being necessary to the planting of the Corn &c, puts it entirely out of their power to comply, "however desirous they might be of accepting of the proposition"—
Page 43
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 43 "To his Excellency Thomas Jefferson Esqr, Governor of Virginia— 1781. The Field Officers & Captains of the Stafford Militia represent to your April *14th Excellency, that as a number of the Enemy's Ships are Ravaging, burn- Stafford Co. ing & Destroying the property of all the People Situated on the Waters, that we have thought it advisable to detain the Militia to be assisting in repelling 'em, hoping it will meet with your Excellencies approbation. should it not you will please advise us; in which we shall be very Par- ticular in Executing— We are your Excellencies Very Humble Servants WILLIAM GARRARD C. L. JAMES GARRARD Co. WILLIAM PHILLIPS L. C. JOHN GRIGG, M— GEO. BURROUGHS CAPT: ELIJAH THRELKELD GEORGE MOUNTJOY MASON PITCHER JAMES PRIMM EDWARD CARY." BARON STEUBEN TO THE GOVERNOR. April 16th Informing him he had "appointed Mr. Robinson Dopt: Comy: of Chesterfield Stores" and hopes that Department will soon be properly arranged—He has given orders to Capt: Pryor to remove the Military Stores at P. Georg Co. House to Chesterfield Co. House—Genl: Muhlenburg by letter dated the 14th informs him "the Enemy have nearly compleated 25 Boats, to contain each 100 men, & that it is reported they wait only for them, to begin their operations." DAVID Ross TO THE GOVERNOR. April 16th "Sir, The bearer, Mr. George Nicolson is engaged to go to the North- Richmond ward to try & procure some of the Stores, wanted for the Army—1 have also dispatched an agent to South Quay, Edenton & Newburn, to pick up what can be procured in that Quarter. As there is a continued demand for coarse linnens I have employ'd people in the back Coun- try to purchase all that can be got there, also thread. I am exceed- ingly distressed for the means of making payment to the Northd & shall be glad that your Excellency will be pleased to write to our Delegates in Congress to assist Mr. Nicolson in money matters, as much as in their power.
Page 44
44 CALENDAR OF STATE TAPERS. 1781. April 16th I have sent out to the back Country to have a return made of the Hemp collected for the Specific, & 2 pr: cent tax—this is an article very much in demand in Philadelphia & a valuable Fund as far as it will go, tho' a very unweildy one, but it must be used—I shall be glad of an order to Mr. Brown to receive the cargo of the "Washington," as I am just now writing to the Captain to obey Capt: Maxwell's Instructions— the Cargo Consists of Pork, Flour, Pease, Shipliread, Some Bacon & a little Lard— I would not be troublesome to you to day, but am unfortunately obliged to be 50 miles from hence tomorrow about 12-o-elock, by a pre- vious engagement— Mr. Nicolson will wait on you tomorrow for your dispatches. Your most hum: Servant." April 16th John Taylor County Lieut: sends return of the militia of the County, Lancaster especially those raised to serve in the Continental Army—They are in grcat need of Ammunition, and constantly exposed to invasion. April 16th COL: JOHN TODD JUR: TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Lexington, "May it please your Excellency" Ky; Your letter of tho 24 Dec: as also that of the 19th Jany: last inclosing sundry papers came safely to hand a few days ago. By the last Accounts I can procure from Jefferson & Lincoln, the Militia of the whole three Counties at present amount to about 1050 — Fayette 156 — Lincolon 600 — Jefferson 300 — I have just made a Draft of 78 from this County for Col: Clark, & if the other Counties draft proportionally your demand will be fully satisfied — I hear nothing as yet of Col: Clark, but I conceive I have just cause of expostulating with him on accunt of this County, its true state being probably unknown to your Excellency when the Draft was required to be proportioned to tho militia — Exposed at every Fort, & weakened by daily removals of its Strength to the South Side of Kentucky, we are scarcely able to keep our Forts. Should Colo. Clark take his Ilout by the Shawnese Nation, all cause of complaint must cease, as the Enemy will thereby be drawn off from our Forts. Being unable just now to spare Labourers & Guards at a distance from our Forts, for making Canoes, I have sent Mr. Lindsay to Lincoln for Assistance, which I make no doubt of procuring — I fear I shall meet with some difficulties in conveying the Stores at Lexington & Bryants to the Canoes, for want of Horses, ours being nearly all taken by the Indians & Col: Bowman does not prove so friendly as I think he ought to be in giving me necessary Assistance —
Page 45
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 45 Our circumstances have received so material a change within twelve 1781. months that a Draft of 18 Militia for the Continental Army at present April 16th w'd be singularly oppressive upon Fayette or Jefferson. Happy sh'd we be & readily would we spare them, if our situation were but as the Legislature expected. There is scarce one fort in the county but once a month seems upon the eve of breaking for want of men to defend it- Such residents as had most property and Horses to remove their effects, have retreated to Lincoln. One half of the remainder arc unable to Remove. We have no tax Commissioner in the County & almost nothing to tax. All which circumstances plead I hope in Excuse sufficiently for the Militia at present. Whenever our circumstances will admit of it, the people will, I'm satisfied enlist voluntarily in the Continental Army, from a genius they possess for war, as well as the greatness of the Bounty." ***** "I inclose you a letter from Mr. Pollock—I still receive complaints from the Ilinois. that department suffers I fear through the Avarice & Prodagality of our Officers; they all vent complaints against each other—I beleive our French friends have the justest grounds of dissat- isfaction— . I have the Honor to be, with the greatest Respect Your Excellency's most obedient and very humble Servant." Coj.: DA VIES TO THE GOVERNOR. April 16th The badness of the weather has prevented his return to Richmond. Chesterfield He is so persuaded of the intended movement of the Enemy "up the rivers," that he ia constrained to urge the immediate removal of all the Stores at Petersburg and Chesterfield, "at least 150 waggon loads". The Cannon at New Castle also should be carried to a place of safety— Capt: Young should at once be ordered to impress waggons, and push this business— MAJOR THOS: POSEY TO COL:'DAVIES. April l6th He hears the Baron is displeased with the Officers receiving the new Staunkm recruits, because they do not make prompt reports to him—So far as he is concerned, his Orders were to report to Col: Davies, and has been under the impression the reports were then fowarded to the Baron— He had however written to that Officer by Col: White giving an accunt of his operations—Requests Col: Davies to make explanations to the Baron on this head, as he is ever ready to execute any orders he may be honord with from him—Concludes, "You observe to me that you were appointed Commissioner to the War Office—I can assure you (as to my
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 46
46 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. particular part) I am very happy to find that Government has so much April I6th judgment in their choice of a Commissioner to the War Office; for I am persuaded (without any flattery) that there is no person in the State, would fill that place with half the propriety. And as to meeting with the approbation of the Officers of the Line, I am well assured there is not one, so great an enemy to their Country, as not to be well pleased with your appointment, until a proper regulation iu that Department will take place." April 16th "To prevent a waste of public Stores, and to establish regularity, General Or- Major General Baron de Stcuben, thinks it necessary to direct that in dersi issued future, no Issue of Provision shall be made for more than three or four by Baron Steubon days at a time, without a special Order immediately from some Com- manding General or field officer, and on particular occasions only. That a return shall be made on or before the fifteenth day of next month by all Commissaries at the different posts, of all their Issues since the begin- ning of this month & of the stores that may he then on hand. And that after the fifteenth day of next month, no person shall presume to Act as Issuing Commissary at any post or Station, who is ^iot properly Authorized for that purpose by Mr. John Robertson, who is directed to act as Deputy Commissary General of Issues in this State, till a person shall be appointed to that Office by the Commissary General himself— And whereas it is necessary that great economy should be observed in the issues of Spirituous Liquor to the troops, it is therefore to he drawn on such occasions only, as fatigues, hard marches, or wet weather. All Supernumerary Officers are to-observe that they are no longer entitled to forage or provision, from the public, and the Issuing Com- missaries are directed to take notice accordingly—" April 16th MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO COL: DA VIES. Richmond His favor of the 14th just received. Repeats his willingness to aid in every possible way in removing the stores from Petersburg, hut has not the means of transportation: had requested Capt: Holmes some days since to send the superfluous stores to Carter's Ferry, but he has not been able to get wagons—Thinks Carter's Ferry or Prince Edward Co. House will be safe places for them. April 16th COL: ED: CARRINGTON TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Camp Mays' "My dear Sir, **'" After expressing to you my pleasure at hearing of your Appointment to the Head of the War Department in Virginia, & my I
Page 47
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 47 congratulations to all persons whose business may be fowarded under 1781. the influence of a capable and diligent hand in that post, I have to April 16th request a due proportion of your Attention to such State instructions as Major Claiborne is dependant on, for the success of his business—he will show you the arrangement made between him & n^-self for Organ- izing & operating his department; but when money is wanting we are left dependant on certain Laws, the bencfit whereof to be derived from the exertions of some civil officers, who fill their Offices without ever supposing it incumbent on them to discharge the duties thereof—for Transporting supplies from Virginia the Legislature devised a measure for getting a number of waggons from the different counties through the County Courts—They also directed that the Executive should make proper regulations for giving us the aid of private property, waggons, when necessary—By the Act, the duties of the County Courts were evident—at my request the Executive directed Mr. Brown to have all the private waggons Registered & so arranged as to be at our service when called on. Neither of those duties have been done—Pray is there no means of bringing to punishment some of these people who abuse the public, by neglecting the duties incumbent on them—I shall be much obliged to you to converse with Major Claiborno & afford him every assistance in your power. I am in haste Yr: friend &c" JNO: FLOYD TO Gov. JEFFERSON.* April 16th Sir, Jefferson Co., About the first of January last Commissions were delivered me, ono Ky- appointing mo Colo. of the Militia of this County, one other appointing Commission- Isaac Cox Lieutenant Colo., also a Major's Commission for William Lyn; ors sent> *c- five Capt: Commissions together with the Comm'n of the Peace, &c. directed to four of the said Officers, who are Inhabitants of the County, and to three others, one of them being also appointed Sheriff, the other two being in very distant Countys & who have not been in this since their Appointment—I had some time before the receipt of these Com- missions, heard of the Appointments & foreseeing the Evil which must arise f:om their not being Magistrates in the County to qualify the Militia Officers, wrote to Your Excellency requesting more Justices to be added to the Commission of the peace & that blank Mijitia Commis- sions might be sent me—And I repeated this request soon after the *This letter is remarkable for the beauty of its chirograpby—enclosed with this is another letter of datc of April 24th from same place, reiterating the substance of this one, and expressing the hope that Qenl: Clarke's preparations at Port Pitt weuld prevent the settlement from threatened destruction, &c.
Page 48
48 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. receipt of thoCom'n but have received none others since; nor did I ever April 16th receive a single line from you till the 4th Instant when, your two letters, one of the 24th of December & the other of the 19th of Jan: were deliv- ered me—I shall always endeavor to perform the duties of any office, which I undertake, faithfully; and in this particular instance, have done more than my duty required of me—You write mo that you had, six months before, required of mo a proper Return of tho Militia of this Division of County; but as the division of Kentucky did not take place 'till Novem- Ky., &c. ber las^ your instructions must have been dated before, this County took Cause of de- place—But had that not beon the case, and had your Letter come to missUmin™'' min^> i* was ou* of my Powor to comply with it, as we have only four proper offi- Magistrates iu tho County, one of whom was so infirm that he could not attend Court at all 'till March last. and then the officers could not qualify, they being the Justices also; nor is this inconvenience likely to be remedied in a short time as Capt Sullivan is just returned from Rich- mond without any Commissions for this County. And as the recom- mendations made by this Court have not yet been sent away, I fear we shall not get the Commisns. 'till late in the Summer; and until this hap- pens no regular return can be made for want of Officers; Two of tho Captains who had Comns. sent, refused to accept of them; one other I never yet have seen, nor can I get him to Court to Qualify—I have Strength of endeavored to collect tho number of the Militia, and find from the best the- militia information I can get, they amount to 354, between tho ages of sixteen and fifty including officers— Levy for You require tho Act of Assembly for recruiting tho States Quota of s'rvf e°tobo Troops to serve in tho Continental Army to be carried into execution postponed, hero, but for tho reasons before mentioned it must be postponcd; and • when your Excellency is informed of the true situation of this County, 1 am persuaded you will think tho Law ought not to have extended to it- Inhabitants We are all obliged to live in Forts in this County, and notwithstanding killed by the all thc cautjon that we use, forty seven of the Inhabitants have been wholo f'ami- killed & taken by tho Savages, Besides a number wounded since Juny. lies, &c. iast-—Amongst the last is Major William Lyn— Whole families are destroyed, without regard to Age or Sex—Infants are torn from their mothers Arms & their Brains dashed out against Trees, as they are necessarily removing from one Fort to Another for safety or Convenience—Not a week passes & some weeks scarcely a day without some of our distressed inhabitants feeling the fatal effects of the infernal rage and fury of those Execrable Hell hounds. Deplorable Our garrisons are dispersed over an Extensive Country, and a large stateof many proportion of the Inhabitants, are helpless indigent Widows & Orphans, who have lost their Husbands and fathers by Savage Hands, and left among Strangers, without the most common necessaries of Life—Of those who have Escaped, many have lost all their stocks, and have not
Page 49
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 49 any Land of their own, nor where withal to purchase — Our dependanco 1781. to support our familys is upon getting wild meat & this is procured with April 16th great difficulty & danger; and should it fall to the Lott of some in this County who are thus Situated to serve as Regular Soldiers according to Law, their familys must inevitably starve. Our Garrison at the Falls is made 'sufficient to stand an attack with Condition of light Cannon, but our numbers which will risk themselves in it, will by Jittho Fa?ls°of no means be sufficient to defend it from an Army which we are fro- Ohio quontly threatened with from Detroit — Our Inhabitants being so dis- persed that they could not be collected to any one place in the County in loss than fifteen days — The confidence of the People here have in Confidence General Clarke's vigilance; his enterprising Spirit & other Military Vir- "°' tues, together with their inability to remove, have been barely sufficient t?o keep this County from being left entirely desolate — Major Slaughter Maj. Slaugh- at the Falls of Ohio, has about 500 pds: of powder & Lead in proportion, ^° com-^ which is all the Public Ammunition in this County; none of that deliv- Falls cred to Col: Bowman last Winter, having been sent mo, and there is very little in the county of private property — There is not at this time, I am informed & believe, more than fifty Provisions, thousand Lbs. of Beef in this County, Fayette & Lincoln; upwards of one hundred thousand Weight of that laid up in this County being entirely rotten & lost — Corn is plenty in Lincoln & Fayette but there is no flour in any of these Counties. The men you order for Genl: Clarke's Men for Expedition will be raised without much difficulty, notwithstanding all the disadvantages tho County is under — The Canoes also shall be ready in time, tho' one fourth of the Militia must guard while they are on hand — Salt may be had here sufficient for an army of two thousand Salt abund- men Six months, and perhaps more — ant I am Your Excellency's most Obt. IIumb Sorvt. JNO: FLOYD- HENRY SKIPWITH TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 16th Recommending Mr. John Chapman of Amelia and his sons, who pro- Cumberland pose to undertake the rcparing of public Arms—Of Mr. Chapman he Co. says "I, from a several years acquaintance, can not only venture to men- tion him as an honest, independant Freeholder, but as an uncommon mechanical genius, fully equal to tho tusk of either reparing or making Guns: and as a man in whom the Executive may repose tho strictest confidence & expect the most faithful & rigid execution of his duty."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 50
50 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. BARON STEUBEN TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 17th "Sir, Chesterfield Major Mitchell will present to your Excellency a List of the Men '' now with Genl: Muhlenberg & will inform you of the number of those who are on the point of leaving him. He will also communicate to your Excellency, my plan for defensive operations—which will require at least the number of men I have already asked for—and I must again request that this force may be on foot, before the enemy begin their operations— Colo. Armand's Corps having retired, Genl: Muhleuberg is now almost without Cavalry. I have the honor to be with respect your Excellency's most Obed hum Servt—" April 17th Stephen Southall, A. Q. M. Genl: informs Col: Davies, he shall deliver the Stores to the Continental Q. Master as Ordered, and take receipts therefor—charging "the Continent" with the same—Expresses surprise at Col. Claiborne's refusal to receive them, as ho should have known it was his duty to do so— April 17th COL: JAS: WOOD TO THE EXECUTIVE. Charlottes- Asking remuneration for advances made to the British Officers, to the VI amount of £78. Sterling, while at Albemarle Barracks; and asking instructions as to the disposal of the public property at that place. April 17th Andrew Ried, Clerk, certifies that the Books of the Commissioners of Rockbridge the Land Tax, were destroyed "by the Rats cutting a hole through the back part of a Desk and destroying" them. April 17th J. MADISON JUR: THEO. BLAND AND MR. SMITH, DELEGATES TO GOVR. JEFFERSON. "Sir, Philadelphia The inclosed* resolution of Congress answers your Excellency's letter of the 26th ulto., relating to the appointment of Col: Davies to the War Office of Virginia. You will observe that it determines his rank in the Army alone, to be the bar to his acceptance of a civil office. Should Col: Davies be willing to give up that, and his place be supplied *None of the enclosures referred to, are to be found.
Page 51
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 51 by one of the supernumerary Colonels, So that no additional expenco 1781. would accrue to the United States, Congress we beleive would not hesi- April 17th tate to let him retire, without forfeiting any of the emoluments to which he is at present entitled. General MeDougal was lately appointed by Congress to a civil Office under the like circumstances with Col: Davios, and as he did not chuso to part with his rank in the Army, the appoint- ment was annulled— We have been favored with your Excellency's two letters of the 6th & 7th instant—The steps already taken by us & of which you will have been informed, will, we flatter ourselves accomplish your wishes with regard to the Refugees taken on board the Romulus. Your Excellency will also have seen, by our late letters, that we have not been unmindful of the distressed state of Virga., for want of the stores lately brought hither by the French Frigate—VVo wish however, that our efforts to foward them had been more successful—Our first plan for the purpose, was the one suggested by your letter. The probable emptiness of your Treasury, and the impossibility of our making our requisite advance to the Waggoners here, led us to substitute the other plan of placing the Stores in the Quarter Masters Channel, and procur- ing from Congress a warrant for the money nccessary for the purpose. He at the same time engaged the attention of Colo. Febiger to the busi- ness, who has been very alert in expediting the supplies for the Southern Service. Notwithstanding these precautions we have the mortification to find, that the stores are not yet on their way. Since the receipt of your letter, we have determined to recur to our first plan. The Q. Master & Colo. Febiger assure us that every exertion shall be used to execute it. They say however, it will be several days, before the waggons can possibly be on the road—According to an estimate of the Q. Master. we shall be obliged to draw on your Excellency for near £500 specie or, as much paper as will be equal to it, at the current exchange, to be paid on the arrival of the waggons. The only paper they will receive is the old Continental bills. The Exchange hero is 150 for 1; and the depreciation progressive. Your Excellency's other requests relating to the debts left by Col: Finnic in his department, and the accommodation of Mr. Ross with funds in this place, shall have all the attention we can give them. The Extract* of a letter from Genl: Washington, herewith enclosed, contains all the Authentic information received since our last, on the subject of another embarkation from N. York. For some days of late the report has died away into a general disbelief—Some persons just come out of N. York have revived it. with -this variation, that it has a Southern object. We are extremely concerned to inform your Excellency, that the detachment of the Pennsylvania Line, on which our expectations have * None of the enclosures referred to, are to bo found.
Page 52
52 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. been so long fixed, are still detained by the want of money. Every April 17th expedient witbin our invention has been tried, without avail, to remove the obstacles to their march; and we have no encouragement that the resources of the State will put them in motion, in less than 8 or 10 days, at the nearest. The detachment under the Marquis de la Fayette, is, we understand, again moving Southward. but we have great reason to apprehend, that the general cause of our embarrassment will at least retard their progress. The Extract above referred to, will give an idea, how far the Commander in Cheif is likely to be in a condition to spare other detachments from the Troops immediately under him. By a return lately transmitted to Congress, it appears that he had not rec'd five hundred effective recruits from all the States whose levies were assigned to the Northern Department. It is pretty certain we believe that the British fleet under Arbuthnot is arrived at N. York from Chesapeak—That of our Ally has certainly returned into N. Port. On receipt of yr: Excellency's letter of the 8th ult: respecting a plan to be concerted with the States of Maryland & Delaware, for the trans- portation of supplies to the Southward, we communicated the matter to the Delegates from those States, but they have never been furnished with any power or instructions relative to it—• The Acts* of this State, taking off the embargo, are under the same cover with this. We have the honor to be, with sentiments of the highest respect, Yr: Excellency's obt and bble Servants—" April 18th Ro: WOODING Co. LlEUT: TO THE GOVERNOR. Halifax Co. Informing him, that Genl: Green had lately sent a number of British prisoners into that Cpunty "directed to the Sheriff" with orders that they be conducted to any post in the State appointed for their recep- tion—In consequence of this the Sheriff has summoned sundry men in his Bailiwick to assist him in guarding the prisoners to Albemarle County. These men claim this as a "term of duty", but as he knows of no law authorizing it, he desires Orders from his Excellency, "which shall be a law" to him, and will give general satisfaction. April 18th COL: JAS: INNES TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Williamsb'g Informing him, he had just received by Express, a message from Capt: 4 o'clock P. Kelly stationed a |ittle above Newport News, that eleven vessels of the enemy, Cheifly Square-rigged had passed N. Port News Point up the * None of the enclosures referred to, are to be found.
Page 53
CALENDAR OP STATE PAPERS. 53 River. This was at 10-o-clock this morning, and the wind being fair 1781. from the S. East. they can reach Burwell's Ferry by the evening. He is April 18th preparing to give them a reception; and has ordered the stores to be removed at once—Having but lately taken Command at that Place, he is uncertain as to his force, Some of which is Stationed as low down as Newport News—Every intelligence shall be promptly sent to him. P. S.—Since writing the above, the officer at Burwell's Ferry reports the van of the fleet in sight. SAML: HUNTINGTON TO Gov: JEFFERSON OF VA., enclosing Act of Con- April 18th gross in regard to Col: Davies' appointment as Commissioner of War of Virginia &c—to wit, "By the United States in Congress assembled, April 16th, 1781." Philadelphia "The Committee to whom was referred the letter of the 26th March last from the Govr. of Virginia, delivered in a report, whereupon— Ordered, That Gov: Jefferson be informed, in answer to his letter of the 26th March last, that it is incompatible with the rules established by the United States, in Congress Assembled, for Col Davies to exorcise a civil appointment, whilst he retains his rank in the Army- Extract from the minutes. CHAS: THOMSON, Secy." ELEAR. SHEED TO THE EXECUTIVE. April 18th Praying for permission to go in the "Flag boat" intended to convey Mrs. Allegood down the Country;,she desires to join her husband Dr. Sheed who resides in the West Indies, and begs to be allowed to take a few Hogsheads of Tobacco with her, "as the currency of the State will not.yield her subsistence elsewhere." Litt: Mosby informs the Governor he has, in accordance with Orders, April 18th enlisted, so far thirty six men, and expects to add to the number. The Powhatan County has been so often pillaged of Arms, that it will be impossible to t!o. furnish them—Hopes to get these at Petersburg where ho will be with his Men on Monday, next. CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO COL: DAVIES. April 18th He is fowarding Stores to Powhatan Co. House as fast as possible & Chesterfield has sent Capt: Towles to prepare houses for their reception,—and for C- the Tailors and Shoe makers to work in—Thinks it important to keep
Page 54
54 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. them at work and therefore removes them to that place during the April 18th Invasion. Many of them are idle for want of Leather. Linnen wanted for shirts and overalls— April 19th THADY: KELLY TO COL: INNES BY EXPRESS. "Sir, Blunt's Pt. this morning I Discovered a brigg <fc schooner, and as well as I can make out, between Newport News & the ships laying oposit Day's point upwards of twenty flat Bottomed Boats—there wan a signal Gun fierd from the Commodore—the boats crowded Sail & comes up fast—I sent to Newport News before day & only wait for their return & the boats cuming up to the ships—the men will set off from this post in less than . an hower—I shal wate myself to sec what movements they make. I am Sir <fcc. April 19th MR. ROBERTSON D. C. G. ISSUES TO COL: DAVIES. Petersburg He has examined the stores in possession of Mr. Hector McNeil. and finds there 13 hhds: rum, 2 pipes of wine & too teirces of Rice—Wag- gons cannot be gotten to remove them—Recommends they be sent to Mr. Ried. Lambs, Q. Master, in Brunswick forty five miles on the way to Taylor's Ferry—The Stores will be removed as fast as possible— April 19th Hoods COL: SENF TO THE GOVERNOR. He has been at this place since Saturday last, but has heard nothing of Col: Call—Has roc'd four negroes from the neighbors and expects six more tomorrow—The fifteen hired negroes who were there, went home "to hold their Holydays", and having no soldiers there, ho could not prevent it—all returned except four—The Carpenters who went to Richmond to settle their accounts have never returned, and others drafted and sent to Genl: Muhlenberg—Wants a guard for the provisions and took, until the Garrison arrives—Shells to burn into Lime very much wanted—he hears they can be gotten at Manchester, Warwick and on Appomattox River. April 19th COL: J. INNES TO THE GOVERNOR. Williamsb'g He is just informed by the Officer at Harwell's Ferry that nine "flat- ° °'ock bottomed Boats full manned, two armed Ships, a brig and a schooner more" are in sight—adds "I am preparing to take the most expedient
Page 55
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 55 measures my poor Judgement dictates, for the honor and service of the 1781. State. I will not fail to account of every material contingency." April 19th I am with every Sentiment of Respect £c." SAML: MCDOWELL TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 20th "Sir. I received your Excellency's Order of the 29th March last, and Rockbridge ordered the Draft accordingly. The Draft is made and the day of Ran- divouse is the 26th Iust:—But it must Ruin a number of those whoso lot it is to march at this time. As most of them were drawn last full when Genl: Lesley invaded this State, by which they were prevented from sowing full crops: And by going to Join Genl: Greene at this time, they will not be able to Raise Spring Crops, and therefore their familys and stocks must suffer, as they (mostly) have not any person behind them when they arc gon from homo, to work their small farms. They likewise are of opinion, If your Excellency and Councel knew the Duty this County has done 'since last October, you would excuse them at this time, and call for men from the counties which have done loss." * * * * * * "This County had in October last Capt James Gilmer and forty odd men in Carolina under Genl: Morgan for near four months, and was at Tarleton's Defeat at the Cow Pens in South Carolina: And there were also throe Companies down (when Lesley invaded the State): their numbers were about 180 men—On Arnold's Invasion Colo. John Bowyer marched with about 200 men, down the Country And when Genl: Greene Retreated into Virginia, it was believed in these Parts that Ld: Corn- wallace was in Virginia, I marched ncar 200 men from this County to Join Genl: Green. When we got to Bedford we were informed that Corn- wallace had gon up from Hillsborough to Guilford—I with dificualty per- suaded the men to cross the Dan into Carolinia, and Joined Genl: Green some time before the Battle at Guilford Courthouse: Continued with him 'till after the Batl: the 15th of March last, had 1 Capt: and 4 Pri- vates Killed; two Capts: one Ensign and seven Privets Wounded, and Major Stuart and four Privets taken Prisoners—From these different calls all the men in this County have been on hard service Each a term, since October last, and nearly two thirds of them at the same time. If Your Excellency and the Honourable Cojunccl could Excuse the men of this County at this time, it would much oblige them: and they would be able to raise Bread for their families, for I assure you Sir, few of them have any Person, when they are from homo to do any work on their farms." ****** Your Excellency's most obt & mo hble Servt—"
Page 56
56 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: HARRY DUDLEY TO COL: DAVIES. April 20th New Castle Informing him of his having repaired to that place as ordered—There are "13* Cannon on the River Shore & a number of Shels & Shott" and there is no way of getting them up the hill—Col: Symo says ho.can give no assistance—Desires to know how he shall dispose of the "Flatt and Sloop there" after they have discharged their loads? April 20th L. Mosby informs the Governor, he should huve called the Court Mar- Fowhatan tial to try the few delinquents in the County who refused to march when called upon under the Invasion Law, but all the Militia being called out he was unable to bo present— April 20th COL: J. SYME TO THE GOVERNOR. New Castle Wagons are so scarce, that there are few to be impressed, and none to hire; the price given by the "Publick" so much lower than that given by individuals—Expresses great anxiety respecting "this Train of Artil- lery. an object of much Importance for its Value at any time, more especially at this Crisis"— April 20th COM: JAS. BARRON TO THE COMM'DINO OFFICER AT WMSBURG. "Sir, Blunt's Ft. The Vessells which ware bound up Jas: River, are now at Anchore off the mouth of Peggen Creek, Consisten of five Ships, two Brigs, two Schooners & three Sloopes, with thirty flatt Bottom boats a stearn. the fowcy 24 Gun Ship in Burwell's Bay and a Brig at Anchor—Whate their intentions are I know not, but it may be proble they intend up in the night to suppriso Williamsburg—was their intention to land at Smithfield, should have thought they would donc it some hours past, as they anchored there at one-o-clock to day—two Sloops & a Schooner are horsemen. 1 am Sir, with great respect Your most humble Scrvnt." * These are doubtless the French Brass Pieces, that were afterwards transported by water up to Taylor's Ferry on Pamonky, were found there by Tarlton, some spiked & others rolled into the River; six were left, and subsequently carried up to Rich- mond and were to be seen in the Armory Grounds up to the War of 1861—Had they been small Guns, they could have been easily "carried up the hill," at N. Castle.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 57
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 57 O. TOWLES LT: COL: 5in VA. REOT. TO THE-GOVERNOR. 1781. April 20th Sending Capt Feild with six prisoners under guard to Richmond taken FrodericWg in King George Co—They belonged to "the British piratical crew" that had been plundering up the Potomac, and hud escaped from a vessel called "The little Trimmer—" JAS: HABERSHAM TO JOHN HAMILTON. April 20th Requesting him "to apply to the Governor & Council on my behalf, Charlotte Co. for leave to dispose of the undermentioned negroes— London ") Boatswain > fellows, those three to be sold April 26th 1781. Queme J Venus 1 Rinah > Wenches. Cinda J Hetty 1 Nanny }Childron' Tho: Read, Clerk of the County certifies that these negroes had been brought from Georgia and duly registered in Charlotte according to Law. CAPT: Ro: GAMBLE STH VA. TO COL: DAVIES. April 20th • Enclosing certificate in favor of the bearer a Tailor who wishes to be Chesterfield employed—adds—"The latest acct. at this place, is that the Enemy are no higher up the River than Burwell's Ferry, being detained with con- trary winds and tides." COL: JOHN SYME TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 20th He will hold the Court Martial for delinquents as ordered—His Offi- New Castle cers have made no returns for nearly twelve months, or since ho went to the Springs—According to the last returns, the Militia of Hanover were "greatly short of two Battlns.," hence there is no use for so many Field Officers.—Adds—"A certain Thomas Birch Hulett, by Directions of Mr. Wm. Fontaine (as I understand) seiz'd two plow Horses of mine, not long since in the plows & carried them off, for abt. a week, Doing them much injury & then return'd them. This furnishing my Teams for Hailing the Artillery, Stores, &c c: Horses for my in the Militia Horse Service & others about a fortnight before that, for the Dragoon Service, is rather too much, when other people in the Coty. do nothing at all in that way—Had I been at home I Certainly taken the 8
Page 58
58 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Horses from the man & wish you so kind as to tell me, If you know by April 20th what Authority He proceeded—In future Occasions of that Sort, I could place this Disagreeable Business on an Equitable & just Footing, wth. regard to Every Gentleman of the Coty., for I am against taking the poor man's Horse at any rate—" April 20th L. MOSBY TO THE GOVERNOR. Powhatan He had begun recruiting, but receiving the orders to send the entire Militia force to Manchester, had suspended the business until further Orders—Uas-re'd the Act Establishing a Corps of Invalids, but upon making Enquiries on the Subject, finds none in the County. April 20th COL: GARRET VANMETER TO GOV: JEFFERSON. Hampshire He had written on the 14th inst: and was about to send the bearer ^°' Mr. Andrew Woodrow, when orders were received for him to march with the militia ordered below—Notwithstanding this, he determines to give him a furlough of twenty days to go down to confer with his Excel- lency on several matters—The Commissioners of the Tax send by him for the money needed to pay the bounties to the drafted men, in as much as the late insurrections have prevented the collectors from "executing their duty "—They cannot oven tell what sum will be wanting, but any excess will be returned to the Treasury—Adds—" Since my letter of the 14th was wrote, I have had no further accounts of the rioters, but have much reason to fear (whatever they may promise to the contrary) they will still stand in opposition untill a sufficient force is sent against them. I have within these Twenty four Hours, received authentick information, that a very considerable number have assembled in another part of the County, determined to stand in opposition to every measure of Govern- ment, and endeavoring to persuade every one in their neighborhood to join them in their Treasonable and destructive measures—for this pur- pose (as I am told) they swear fidelity to each other. Their principal object is to be clear of Taxes and Draughts. These things Sir, are truly alarming, but I am happy in one consolation, that we have a majority of Friends to our happy .Constitution, and will spare no pains nor hazard when called on, to render their country what services in their power. It has just occurred to mo, that your Excellency may probably judge it expedient to order some Cavalry to be raised in this County—Should such a measure be adopted, I am humbly of opinion it might be attended with very happy consequences, & should it be ordered, I would beg leave to recommend to your Excellency Capt William Vaure, a very active brave officer, at present a supernumerary—Mr. Soloman Vanvemeter,
Page 59
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 59 and the bearer Mr. Andrew Wodrow, who has also served some time in 1781. the Continental Army—All these Gentlemen have distinguished the April 20th most laudable zeal and attachment to their Country's cause, and I hope will discharge any trust reposed in them with honour and reputation— this last Gentleman's being draughted is a singular disadvantage to us, as he does the whole publick business of the County as a Clerk; and has always conducted himself, both in his publick capacity and otherwise as a good citizen—" ***** ******* Only fifty seven men have been draughted as some of the militia arc now in North Carolina, enlisted for the war— Whatever meksuros his Excellency may recommend, shall be complied with, "for the interest of the Publick as far as practicable." COL: JAS: INNES TO THE GOVERNOR. April 20th "Sir, Fourteen flatt-bottomed Boats, a ship, two brigs, two sloops and Williamsb'g one schooner heavily manned, have just arrived at Burwell's Ferry— from every appearance I think they mean to Land, as they have halted with a favorable Tide—I believe they wait for nothing but the arrival of two schooners, which have their cavalry on board—these vessels, I am at this moment informed have just turned Mullberry Island point—I moved out all the stores at this post last evening— I have the honor to be respectfully &c." Information from the same source, thro' Capt: Davenport that "five April 20th ships, five briggs, throe sloops, four schooners, six and twenty flat Bot- tom Botes" are off Hog Island, "standing up the River"—They may annoy him at Wmsburg, but he is confident their intention is to proceed higher up James River— Col: Innes, sends further intelligence that sixteen flat bottomed boats April 20th had gone above James Town.—He will immediately march the troops Williamsb'g up the New Kent Road, and take such a position as will enable him to operate vigorously witht. exposing his rear & flank. COL: INNES TO THE GOVERNOR. April 20th "Sir, Allen'sOrdi- This Day at two-o-clocke, the Enemy attempted and made good f,!^' their Landing at Burwell's Ferry; at the same time several armed ves- liamsburg
Page 60
60 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. sells and 16 flatt bottomed Boats proceeded up to James Town, where I April 20th have been informed they have since Landed—As soon as I found the Designs of the Enemy to circumvent me, I moved the Troops to this place, which is the nearest position to the town, that can be taken with safety while the enemy are masters of the water— There was some slight skirmishing between the advance of the Enemy and our Guards of Observation at. Burwell's Ferry—We have sustained no loss; all our Guards have joined the main Body—By several persons just from Williamsburg, I am informed that the British Troops were in a mile of the Town—Some Hospital Stores, about fifteen sick men una- ble to move, and some stores belonging to the Commissary's Department, to transport which, waggons could not be obtained, I have been obliged to leave behind me—The Troops under my Command are extremely harrassed, having laid upon their arms for upwards of fifty hours; dur- ing which time they have rcc'd no sustinancc—They discover however a good Countenance, and I have my hopes that when I can give the Enemy action on fair terms, we shall acquit ourselves honourably—We suffer extremely for want of provisions—I write again so soon as I have leisure— I have the honor to be respectfully" April 21st COL: JAS: INNES TO THE GOVERNOR. Hickory 3 o'clock5' "Sir, About 3-o-clock yesterday, the Enemy landed at Burwell's Ferry 500 Infantry 50 Horse & 4 pieces of Artillery, which with seeming above Wil- intention of landing in force at Jamestown, or on some part of the River above us, obliged us to evacuate the Town & move up to Allen's Ordinary six miles above — About 12-o-clock in the night, Major Arm- stead with 150 men & Capt: Keely with 50 Riflemen were ordered down & had a skirmish with the enemy, which terminated rather in our favour — We have just now received information that they are above Jamestown with 14 square-rigged Vessells & 16 flat-bottomed Boats are now in Chickahominy River within 3 miles of the Ship- Yard, & in our present situation, I think there is no probability of our obviating their Inten- tions, without risqueing every thing — I am Sir, yr. Excellency's obent. Servant —" "P. S. Since writing the above, we have received information that the Enemy are in possession of the Ship Yard."
Page 61
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. MR. WM. HAY TO THE GOVERNOR. 1781. April 21st He has a letter just from Frederieksburg from Mr. Nicholson contain- Richmond ing the following "Extract" "By a Gentleman immediately from Philada. we have the Agreeable Information of the arrival of the second Division of the French Fleet, off the Capes of Delaware consisting of 9 Sail of the Line & 7 Frigates—they were spoke with by a Brig which is arrived at Philadelphia." Major Ben: Walker Aid do Camp, writes to Col: Davis, that the Baron April 21st desires an Officer shall go in the "Flag" with the necessaries for the Chesterfield Convention Troops. Capt: Cad: Jones has been thought of, but as his whereabouts is uncertain, suggests a State Officer be selected— Col: J. Syme writes to the Governor in reply, that ho is ordering out April 21st his militia as fast as possible, in accordance with his orders—A part will New Castle be with his Excellency this day—Has a troublesome Job on his hands again, with the Artillery which he and Col: Davies agree must be sent further up the river "as High up as possible"—He shall need a good many men about it—While folding his letter the Postmaster informed him the Enemy are at Williamsburg— COL: J. SYME TO COL: DAVIES, in reply. April 21st He is pushing his first plan of sending the Cannon up the river— New Castle Mason is out after flat-bottomed boats—If they Can't be had, asks if it will not be best "to run the Flatts as high up as possible & let them remain on Board, or land them in Difft. & obscure places"?—Every man of his Militia is ordered to Richmond, and he wants Hands—How is he to get them? And is Capt. Dudley or Mason to take charge of the business—Has just heard the Enemy arc in Williamsburg— Capt: H. Dudley writes to Col: Davies, ho is "removing the Cannon April 21st up the River as fast as possiable in flats," and as the shot and mortar New Castle beds are the least valuable, shall leave them for the last—Has taken eighteen soldiers for the purpose—hears the British troops are in Wms- burg-*-Desires to know upon what terms he is to pay the men or whether this service is to be considered "a term of duty"—
Page 62
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. WM. HAY TO THE GOVERNOR. April 21st Richmond Apologizing for annoying him at this "Critical Period," but hastens to ask that Mr. Nicholson be permitted to attend at his brother's Store, he being ill, and "his two lads" drafted into the service, and under march- ing orders, leaves a large and valuable quantity of goods "at the 'mercy of the negroes." April 21st MAJOR CHAS: DICK TO Gov: JEFFERSON. "Sir, FrederieWg About 3 weeks ago, I wrote your Excellency for a sum of money to be brought mo for the use of the Factory, by Capt: Peter Minor, who has been sometime returned, and brings me no answer about it. My Credit, Word, Honour and every thing mortal can do, will not hold out longer with the people unless I am supported with money—And it is amazing the quantity of arms old and new have been drawn from this Place, since Jany. last—We still continue to do our best, but failing in payments is a great prejudice— Capt Abraham Maury waits on Your Excellency with this, and beg you will send the Same sum by him, of £100,000, that shuld have come by Capt: Minor, And am Respectfully Your Excellency's mo: obt hbl Scrvnt." April 2lst COL: WM. DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR. "Sir, War Office I need not represent to your Excellency the insecurity of this place. We never can proceed with any degree of certainty in any of our public works, while the enemy command the rivers— The state of our arms requires security to the workmen from alarms and I am confi- dent we shall never be able to get them repaired, unless some buildings are prepared for them in a safe place above the falls—I have conversed with Mr. Ford and Mr. Anderson, and they think the hands can begin to work in ten or twelve days from this time Should they be Sent up to the point of Fork, where Mr. Anderson is very desirous to go. Mr. Gil- bert wishes to remove thither too, if his hands can be-usefully employed there, as I have no doubt they can be: but of this I shall make enquiry, and shall consult the Q. M. Genl: on it—I have not spoken to Moody, but I think his hands will be of service then, if he himself should not. Upon the whole, the defence at Hood's and at Westham, ought to be first built, before anything more is attempted at the foundory*—The buildings that are there may serve for occasional purposes: but at pres-
Page 63
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 63 ent, from the now position the enemy have taken, there can be no safety 1781. in this place: unless a considerable force shall be constantly kept up April 21st between Richmond and Williamsburg—May I hope therefore for the Approbation of the Executive, in directing all the hands employed on the public works in this neighborhood, to remove immediately to the point of Fork, except only such a*number of Artificers to be detained at certaih places as the Quarter Mauter General shall direct for the ncces- sary purposes of the Troops? Enclosed I submit to Your Excellency a memorandum of Articles pur- chased by this State for tho use of the Southern Army. Repeated unsuccessful applications have been made to Major Claibornc for wag- gons. but none are yet obtained, or likely to be obtained. This is onc of the ill consequences of the State's depriving itself of the means of trans- portation, as it subjects us to the hazard of losing very valuable stores, merely because tho Continental Officers, who have got almost all our waggons, chuse to remove stores of little value that have been delivered to them, in preference to those of great worth which have not been actu- ally delivered to them, altho' purchased expressly and solely for Conti- nental purposes— , I have the honor to be Sir &c. Endorsed. "In Council Apr: 21st 1781. The Board approves of tho proposition to remove all tho hands employed in the public works in this neighborhood, to the fork of James river. TH: JEFFERSON." "At tho request of His Excellency Thomas Jefferson Esqr. Governor April 21st of Virginia I have examined Charles Lee Esqr. touching his capacity, abilities and fitness to practice as an Attorney in tho County Courts and do find him fitly qualified to practice in such Courts." Certified under my hand this 21st day of April 1781. W: ELLZEY." COL: WM. DA VIES TO THE GOVERNOR. April 2lst Requesting him to apply to Col: Th: M. Randolph for a "largo flat or Richmond lighter" which he says can go sixteen miles above his house, and which can carry a great many Stores— Unless it can be gotten many stores may be lost. He would apply himself for it, but has little acquaintance with that gentleman.
Page 64
64 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. April 22d Jos: MARTIN TO COL: ARTHUR CAMPBELL OF WASHINGTON Co. "Dear Sir, Long Island I returned to this place on friday last, after a Tour of 19 Days—it happened very fortunate our Going out at the Time we did, as there was a large Body of Indians Collected in powell's valley, whfbh we should most Certainly have fallen in with, if Maj Lewis had not alarmed them. I was at one Camp whearc there could not be less then a Hundred—Several other traces of Smaller parties, all making towards the mouth of powell's River, only one partio which Seemed the'freshest which we followed about thirty miles below Cumberland Gap. Came up with them In campt, Surrounded them undiscovered, But the Camp being so close, we could not discover them before they run out. We fired about thirty Guns on them—Several of them Seemed to be badly Wounded—the Cain was so thick they could not be persued on horse- back—We got five guns, Blankets, shot pouches &c—one of their horses was wrote in full John Brown—the sd. Brown was Killed in Cumber- land Gap, which Induces mo to believe it is the party that always watches that place. By such a Body as was Collecting, it appears that they either Intended to attact the Stations or strike a heavy blow on our frontiers—I made no st*ay at the Camp, but pushed on as fast as possible for about seventy miles further, being still on fresh sigu, when the men Stopt & refused to go any further, Saying I was taking them to Chickamogga, that we was To weak—their provisions near out & their horses Tyerd—I did every thing in my power to prevail on them to Go about ten miles further, but Could not—I am Convinced we was a few miles from some Town, as I saw whear they Took in meat on horseback, the blood not dry on the Bushes. they have taken a number of horses that way this Spring— Should write more particular, but Mr. price will deliver this to you, who will give you a particular act. of the whole. in the mean time I beg leave to inform you, I am very Desirous of going to the end of the Path we left, if men & provisions Can be had at any rate, as our frontiers must Expect great distress from that quarter, if they are not Broke up. Mr. Price says if ho meets with your approbation, ho can Raise 50 men at any time. he has behaved very well on this Tour, being one of the spies—Our whole stock of provisions at setting out from the Cove was 2J lbs. of Bacon & half Bushel of Corn pr: man—Our Strength 65 men Including Officers— I am Sir, with great regard Your most obt Servant P. S. The Body of Indians broke on our approach, as we saw sign of several Small parties makeing home—I Can't hear whether Col: Sevier went to meet the Messenger was sent to the nation or not. I am
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 65
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 65 told there was a woman & Child killd on lick Creek last week—Should 1781. any news arrive from tho Nation shall send you Immediately—I am April 22d very Desirous of hearing tho news from Cornwallace—beg you will write us by tho first oportuuity." J. M. COL: JOHN SYME TO THE GOVERNOR. April 22d Maron and others are after wagons—In case these eannot be had, he New Castle will get ox-carts—The Salt should be left twenty or thirty miles from that place in careful hands—"The Brass Cannon are now on Floats— Expect all will be so to-day." Mr. Dudly and himself do not understand each other, ho therefore begs to save the expence of his services by hav- ing him discharged, as ho is dissatisfied with his Orders "& totally unac- quainted with things" there. The Cannon are so heavy, it takes a number of Hands to move them, consequently their place of deposite will be known to tho enemy if they come. They should be carried on carriges up to the fork of James liiver if possible, otherwise it were better they remain on the boats to be removed as occasion may require. COL: JAS: INNES TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 22d "Sir, The movements of tho Enemy on tho Western Side of Chicka- Franke's hominy River, of which 1 apprized you yesterday by Express, has ren- ^'hVs'fr'om dered it expedient for me to take my present position. which I think a Williamsb'g very defensible one: from which too I can file off towards Richmond j^° c °< with't exposing my flanks or Rear to annoyance—They possessed them- selves of the Ship Yard, about 4-o-clock yesterday, and I am apprehen- sive from the fire discovered in that Quarter last night, they have totally destroyed it—The Troops by intense fatigues and vigilance and scarcity of provisions are much worn down—These circumstances increase our number of Invalids daily—I am determined to halt at this place until the men can be comfortably recreated. I am sorry to inform you, I have in vain called for the aid of tho adja- cent Counties—I am at present almost totally with't Horse. If I had the power of impressing I should be able to form a very useful corps of observation—I will immediately order a "Return" of my Strength and Stores, and in close it by the next Express. I am i n want of waggons, provisions, and allmost every necessary—When I get an hours sleep, which I have not enjoyed for upwards of sixty hours, I will write you more fully. I am most respectfully, Yr: Excellency's mos ob Servt." 9
Page 66
66 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: HENRY YOUNG, A. D. Q. MASTER, TO Cox.. DA VIES. April 23rd Richmond • Recommending an officer be sent to remove the Hospital stores farther up the River; that Capt: Bohannan should not be allowed to leave 'VVestham; his services being essential—Mr. E. Baker late Q. Master on the Frontier informs him he has thirty horses at Powell's Valley, four hundred miles off, to deliver up—As they cannot be wanted in that County, or by Col: Slaughter at the Falls of Ohio only one hundred and fifty miles off, he asks for instructions what to do. April 23rd COL: JOHN SYME TO THE GOVERNOR. "Dear Sir, New Castle I have written you so often of late that I am ashamed of it. Nothing but the Salvation of the Stores to induce me.to be thus Trouble- some: Capt: Dudley will by no means answer this Bussiness, for reasons innumerable and too tedious to mention—For particulars, I refer you to this Gent, Wm. Bradford Esqr, who comes Express to inform you of it. 1 can get men here acquainted with the River, the people & that can write. I beg my dear Sir, you will let me conduct this matter. I am with great regard & much haste & perplexity, Your obedient Servant." April 23rd MAJOR GENL: BARON STEUBEN TO COL: DAVIES. "Dear Col, Petersburg As I am unacquainted with Officers commanding the Militia at Richmond, and it being my desire that of those that are armed one half shall march immediately to Turkey Island, and the other to the Long bridge on Chickahominy—I have enclosed the Order which I request you to Communicate. I only wait the arrival of Col: Senf, to visit Hood's and Bland'* ordin- ary, when I intend making the Dispositions to oppose the Enemy should he come this side the River. I am dear Colo. with much esteem Your most obed't humble Servt." April 23rd ED: SIMPSON TO CAPT: EnMD: READ AT PORT ROYAL. Froderic'sb'g Complains bitterly of his not having been paid a shilling even, for nine months either for the work he has done for the U. States or for Virginia, or for the materials furnished—He will undertake to repair the Arms so much wanted to enable him. Capt: Read, to take the field, provided he will become responsible for his pay. to be made in "hard money" or in tobacco at the present valuation, as soon as the arms are delivered—
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 67
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 67 Col: J. Syme writes to Col: Davies, that Capt: Dudley has gone up to 1781. see him to make complaints—The bearer Capt: Stanley will enlighten April 23rd him in this matter—The truth is Capt: Dudley "wants to Comaud me"— New Castle Asks for news—He is "putting the last of the Cannon on Board" and will go up to Richmond soon if he can— COL: DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR. April 23rd Thinks it impossible Col: Irnies is in want of provisions; but if as War Office reported he has crossed at Ruffins, any thing for him should be sent to New Castle—Continues "At present we are in great distress for want of Waggons. Every one of the Public Offices almost; the treasury, the land office, the Auditor's the Hopital having waggons waiting and entirely idle. This is really injurious, and I beg your Excellency's directions either that the waggons may immediately take from the public offices what ever can be spared, or that the Quarter Master may have the liberty of employing them otherwise; some of them have been idle two days— it is necessary Somebody should go up to the Counties in the neigh- borhood of the Barracks, to collect the Arms. and take them to the Point of Fork. I beg to know your Excellency's opinion about the provision and quantity to be sent to Col Innes. I am your Excellency's &c. Endorsed. "In Council April 23, 1781. Colo. Inncs' information being that the Army under his Command is in the utmost distress for provisions we must suppose it fact, and there- fore shl'd think it necessary to send him the four waggons of provisions, as promised him: <fc the rather because of our having promised it—it does not seem credible ho-should have crossed at Ruffins— We approve of sending a person to collect the arms about the barracks & that money be furnished. . * Expecting every moment to hear of the movements of the Enemy & that this will determine whether the removal of the public papers will be necessary, we postpone giving any orders about the waggons at the Several Offices. TH: JEFFERSON."
Page 68
68 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR ROBT. FORSYTH, DEPT: COM: OF PURCHASES FOR So. ARMY, TO April 23rd COL: DAVIES. "Dear Sir, Richmond Mr. Hay has delivered me your letter, dated this day, respect- ing a quantity of Stores he has on hand, intended for the Southern Genl: Hospital, and which he informs me, the Gentlemen of the Quarter Mas- ter's Department here refuse to receive. You were mistaken in your information to Mr. Hay, that I am the proper person to receive them. I can do nothing more than direct the application, when in the hands of the Assistant Qr. Master or Store Keepers' appointed by Major Claiborne. From the system of the Quarter Master's Departmt., it is clearly their duty to receive all public property, whether provided by this State, or sent from any other State, if intended for the Southern Army. The Assistant Quarter Masters. or Store Keepers appointed by the several Deputy Quarter Masters in the Southern States, arc directed by the late arrangement of the Commissary Department to make their Returns of Commissary Stores to me monthly & foward them in such manner as I may find nccessary, & they are the only Persons to whom your State Commissary or other person who procures the specifies required by Congress, should deliver them; for if they are received by any other Person, I shall not be furnished with an Accunt of them, nor have it in my power to make the necessary returns to the Commander of the Southern Army—I find Mr. Southall has left Major Claiborne's employ, therefore the stores in this place cannot be received until a new appoint- ment takes place—which I expect will be to morrow morning. Those at Westham I hope you will direct to be sent up to Carter's Ferry by water to Mr. Drew the Assist: Qr. Master, who shall receive my orders to forward them on without delay. I wish this to take place because Major Claiborne has no acting person at Westham—The Stores . at Petersburg will be received by Capt: Holmes, who acts as Assist: Qr. Master at that Station— I shall at all times be happy to aid the Agents of this State to the utmost of my power, and I wish much that the Specifics required by Congress were confined to onc person to procure; at least, that they should all come Tinder his direction—this I believe is not the case at present, as I have wrote repeatedly to Mr. John Brown, the person whom his Excellency the Governor informed me was charged with this duty, but he has never favor'd me with any information— I am-dear Sir, with the greatest esteon, Your very humble Servant.''
Page 69
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 69 Mas. SARAH MC!NTOSH TO Gov: JEFFERSON. 1781. April 23rd Thanking him for his "very polite letter'' and for the "Ten Thousand Mccklon- pounds" sent by Colo. Russell for the relief of herself and numorouH burg Co. family—She will use "all possible economy in its expenditure." COL: JAS: INNES TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 23rd "Dear Sir, Having received Intelligence last Evening, that the Enemy Camp Ruf- were moving up Chickahominy River Road, with an Intention to attempt in s *erry a Stroke at the Party under my Command and had actually advanced so far up as to be able to compel me to give them action on the most disadvantageous terms, should I endeavour to retreat by the way of New Kent Court House. In this Situation, encumbered as my Line was by upwards of one hundred sick and wounded, without Hospital Stores or Surgeons, burthened too with twenty waggons loaded with the public Stores, which I had ordered from Williamsburg and its Environs, Consid- ering the fatal Consequences that must result from a Defeat of my Party, by the loss of the public arms in their Hands & the ten Field Pieces annexed to it; Knowing too the superiority of the Enemy's numbers & the advantage they must derive from having a Body of Cavalry and fresh Troops in acting against my Detachment without one well-equip- ped Horse & almosst worn down with Fatigue & Hunger; influenced by these considerations & the advice of all the Field Officers, I determined to run no Hazard at such a critical Juncture as the present. I accord- ingly changed my Route and filing off to the Right, passed all the stores & Troops over Pamunkey River at this Place, where I found, according to Information, a very welcome supply of Provisions. I shall now have it in my power to dispose of the Invalids, give the Troops a little Refresh- ment, send the Baggage & Stores off to a Place of Safety & either march up towards Richmond with the Troops light, disencumbered & refreshed by recrossing the -River & falling into the Road through N. Kent or by continuing up on this side & crossing the River at Page's Warehouses, which I ain told makes only the difference of 7 miles. I have sent out to discover the real Designs of the Enemy, and the moment I receive authentic Information, I shall put the Troops in motion. Last night they destroyed the Vessels & Buddings at the Ship- Yard & some Naval Stores at Diascon Bridge. I am also informed, tho' not officially, that the Party which moved up tho Chickahominy Road have burnt Holt's Forge & are moving in three columns toward N. Kent Co. House. In a few Hours I shall know the Truth of these Reports— At all events, I think it would be proper to stop the Provisions you have ordered down on the Road to N. Kent Co. House. I am dear Sir, with the greatest Respect Your mo: obed: & very humble Servnt."
Page 70
70 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES. April 23rd Richmond Informing him, that by letter from Mr. Ried. Young at Fredricksburg he learned a number of Waggons, with Military Stores were then on their way to the Southern Army. Thirty or more "had crossed at this Ferry" last Monday under the direction of Doct: Skinner, and are ordered to Prince Edward Co. House "by the Baron." Fourteen went by the upper route over Carter's Ferry. April 24th RALEIGH COLSTON TO CrOV: JEFFERSON. Capo Fran- Offering to supply the State with woolen goods, well adapted to the e°is wants of soldiers, a quantity of "blanketing sluff" <fcc on moderate terms—If a vessel could be despatched with a cargo of the best super- finc flour, "in neat casks of 180 or 1!)0 Ibs net," it would be very profit- able to the State. that article "commanding 250 Livres pr: barrel"— Thinks it his duty to otter these articles; also a quantity of Russia Drill, for summer clothing—should have addressed the Board of Trade, were he certain of its existence at this time. April 24th JAS: MADISON JUR. AND THEOD. BLAND TO GOVR. JEFFERSON. "Sir, Philadelphia We were yesterday IIonord with your Excellency's of the 13th Inst: with its enclosures. You may be assured that our utmost endeav- ors have been exerted in fowarding the Arms and Stores mentioncd in s/ our last, but insurmountable difficulties have prevented their seting off untill now—But we are happy to inform you that the first of them will go on to day, as the (^r. Master assures us. We have anticipated the circumstance mentioned in the Extract of Genl: Greene's letter to the Barou, by urging the Board of War with every argument for the necessity of speedy supply which they are taking measures to procure, but I fear with little prospect of immediate effect, neither theirs nor our own exertions will be slackened on that head, bnt we cannot advise a reliance on the success—Your desire con- cerning the Prisoncrs, has been communicated to the Minister of France, who has expressed his fears that such a step could not be Justified on the common principles adopted by European nations at War. but at the same time, thinks there will be no difficulty of complying with your desire signified in your last letter (13th) now before us. A late letter from the Commander in Chief gives us some reason to think that the British have a serious intention of making a descent in Delaware Bay, at least to forage. and secure all the Provision they can on the Penin-
Page 71
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 71 sula that lays below New Castle and the head of Elk if possible—in 1781. consequence of which, measures have been taken to remove all the April 24th flower, cattle and short forage on that Peninsula, call'd the Eastern Shore, out of their Reach, and also from the Jersey Shore, Bordering on Delaware Bay; for which purpose, the Board of War are vested with powers by Congress, and tho executives of Jersey, Pennsylvania, Dela- ware, Maryland and Virginia ure request to lend their assistance to aid in the execution of their necessary measure— Authentic Accounts have arrived here, that Don Galvey has entered the Bay of Pensacola with a considerable sea and land force, has made good his landing, and been Joincd by a large body of Troops on the 25th March, and there is little doubt but that important will soon be in tho hands of Spain—by tho same account, we are informed that a detach- ment of Rodney's fleet, consisting of seven ships, were seen standing towards that place, and immediately the Spanish Admiral put to sea from the Havannah with sixteen (16) sail of men of war of the line, and five or six thousand land forces to intercept the British and secure suc- cess to the Assailants— A report prevails here, which gains credit. that tho fleet from Corke consisting of two or three men of war and 120 ships under their convoy, had fallen in with a trench Squadron of twelve or fourteen ships of tho line, and that very few of the Convoy escaped falling into tho hands of our Ally—and a vessel from Cadiz informs us, that war was declared by that nation against the British—Athat a Manifesto had been published by Holland at that Port, authorizing the Dutch to make reprisals on the English Nation, before ho left Cadiz. We have the honor to be with Sentiments of the highest respect & Esteem Yr: Excelley's most ob & hblo Servants. P. S.—We are happy to inform yr: Exy. that a large Detachment of of the Pennyva. Line arc at length in motion towards Virginia, & we hope will arrive in time to check the Progress of the Enemy in that State. We have accts. that tho Confederacy is taken by tho Roebuck & Orpheus off this Coast." COL: JAS: INNES TO THE GOVERNOR. April 24th "Dr. Sir, I have this moment arrived at this place, and shall lose no time. Camp 2 miles I beg to receive yr: Orders, as I am Ignorant of the situation of Rich- ^Ti mond—I would write more explicitly, but for prudential Reasons, which night yr: Excellency will easily conceive. I am most respectfully Yr: Excellency's most ob. Servt." "P. S.—I hope to hear from you by the Dawn of Day."
Page 72
72 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Col: Arthur Campbell informs Col: Davies, that Col: E. Clarke had April 24th sent the prisoners taken in South Carolina on the 23d March to his care, Washington and that he has ibwarded them on to Winchester, not knowing who is °' the Commissary of Prisoncrs in this State—Enquires whether any reply has come from Congress, respecting the establishing a Post on the Ten- assoe. April 24th GEO. ELLIOTT TO CoL: DAVIES. Petersburg One of the wagons referred to has been sent to Richmond, the other "to Roanoke for fish," but has not returned. April 24th CAPT. EDMD: READ TO THE GOVERNOR. Port Royal, He returned, with his Troop to this place two days before, from the Caroline Co. Potomac. The enemy's Ships had all gone down the river—Since he left Boyd's Hole, a small boat had gone there and the houses had been burnt; except the warehouses—Calls attention to his having received in February last a Warrant for Ten thousand five hundred pounds for the purpose of getting boots for his men in Frederick, Maryland, but having to return suddenly to Virginia, did not get them. He has tried to pro- cure them there and at Fredricksburg, but cannot get them made for less than "five hundred and fifty pounds a pair" owing to the rapid depreciation of the moncy—This very much increases the cost; but begs for a further supply of money to pay for them—Refers to the proposi- tion of Mr. Simpson in respect to doing the nccessary repairs to his sad- dles and accoutrements—His horses' backs all sore; Unless Simpson be employed, he will not be able to take the field even after his horses shall have recruited. April 26th CoL: ARTHUR CAMPBELL TO GOV: JEFFEBSON. Washington Refers to his having sent Col: Martin and Major Lewis to drive the Co. Indians from their haunts near Cumberland Gap—He has no hopes the Cherokees will sue for peace, as long us Augusta Georgia is in the hands of the British. who furnish them all the supplies they need— Col: Elijah, sent by him to strike a blow in that quarter had been ibiled in the attempt by "Major Durdop and his Corps of Partizans on this side the Savannah River"— "The Northward Indians" have been troubling the people very much this spring, in Small parties; killing "captivating" and wounding. They came up Sandy River generally, and on the last occasion, penctrated as far as "the settlement on Holstein" carrying off a son of Capt: Bledsoe— These continued troubles have induced the Officers to beg that the Exec-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 73
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 73 utive will countermand the call of the 29th March, for two hundred 1781. militia for the Southern Army—It will be ncxt to impossible for those April 26th men to fit themselves out for so distant a march, having as yet received no pay for their services the past year. He hopes some steps will be taken to provide for the Company of Rangers that guard Powel's Val- ley—Mr. Martin's proposal to penetrate that region with a good force would do good, if carried out; but he thinks it impracticable at present, in view of the importance of sending men to the support of Genl: Greene, the defeat of whom would suddenly overwhelm the Country— Bma GENL: G. WEEDEN TO Gov. JEFFERSON. April 26th Dear Sir, ***** "Genl: Phillips seems from the complexion o*f his Letter, to complain of an infringement on the Sacred rules of Flags of Truce & mentions that borne by Mr. Armistcad. In Justification of myself I enclose to your Excellency copy of Mr. Armistead's credentials. My letter to the British Gonl: on this Subject had the honor of transmitting you a copy of, dated 6th Inst—I know not who Mr. Armstead has taken with him, under the Sanction of his Mission and have therefore enclosed Genl: Phillips copy of iny Flag, with the persons' names & Business they went on. Oh perusing the List of Prisoners, your Excellency will judge how far an Exchange for them can be carried into Execution with propriety. I could only add, that if we have any not already given up to the Con- tinental Commissary of Prisoners, I think they had better be ordered to a convenient place for Exchange—It would give contentment to the Militia and would be a means of stimulating them to more ready Exer- tions, when they found the attention of the Executive not wanting to serve them." * * * "We have a number of Prisoners that are I fear little attended to & should for my own part be for liberating as many of our Countrymen with them as the just rules of war would authorize. The Marquis is now crossing the River—I understand the Frederick & Berkeley men were to march last Monday; they are not however yet arrived. I am, with perfect esteem & Respect, Yr: Excellencies most ob Servant." 10
Page 74
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. LIEUT: COL: R. LINDSAY TO COL: DAVIES. April 26th Albemarle He has received the Orders of the 4th & 18th Insts:, in consequence Co. of which he at once gave directions to the different Militia Officers, to collect all the public arms in the County, in their several districts; but fears this has not been properly done. as ho has so far received only seventeen. The Captains think there are many more, though unfit for use. All the best, only fifteen in number, he delivered to the Officers in Command of the Militia who went down the Country, many of whom .were without arms. Assures him he will une every effort to collect the arms, and send them to the Point of Fork as ordered—After every enquiry, he can get no canoes or batteaux that will "answer the public purposes" Living so remote, (at least 30 miles) from the River, he is a stranger in that part of the County; and therefore recommends for that particular business, the selection of some one who is more familiar with the river from Richmond to Bedford— The resignation of Col: Coles. late County Lieutenant delays his sending a complete Return of the Militia— April 26th LiUT. COL: R. LINDSAY TO Gov: JEFFERSON. "Sir, Albemarle Your favor of the 16th Instant, came to hand covering the Inclosed Commission, and one for Major Charles L. Lewis, the receipt of which I most thankfully acknowledge, but being conscious of my inability to execute an Office of that importance at present, must bog leave to return the Commission. That fill'd up for Major Lewis I have delivered him, which he told me he would qualify too the first opportunity—" * * I am Sir with much respect' your very humbl Servant—" April 26th CAPN: JAS. MAXWELL TO THE GOVERNOR. Richmond "A List of the Arm'd Vessels at Coxes dale, with their Force and pres- ent Complement of men." Tempest, 16 Six-pounders 6 Men, Complimt. 120 when Compt: Jefferson, 14 four pds 23 do. ". 70"" Renown, 16 Six" 23 do. " 120"" Apollo, 18 Six" 5 do. " 120"" Willing Lass, 12 four" 13 do. " 60"" Wilks, 12 do. 5 do. " 60"" Mars, 8 four & Six pds: 3 "40"" 590
Page 75
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 75 Guns, 96 Mon, 78 78 1781. April 26th No: of Mon wanted, 512 American Fabius, pierced for 18 guns, 120"" Morning Star, ""12" 6O"" In conjunction with the Capts. of the Vessels, have fix'd on the above place, and this day expect they will be ranged in a Semi circle, haveing a marsh on the So. Shore, and an extensive plain on the No. Shore, which their canon will command, and they being in want of cartridge paper & som other stores which I shall immediately send them, and Baron Steuben being at Head Quarters, have sent a copy of the above Arrangement to him this morning from Osbornes by an Officer. I have the honour of being Your Excellency's most obedt. Humble Servant." Gov. THOS: S. LEE &c. TO Gov: JEFFERSON OF VA. April 27th "Sir, Genl: Hamilton informed us that a Flag with Cloathing and Money Annapolis, for the late Convention Troops stationed in Virginia and Maryland has Council. arrived at Hampton, and requested permission to land them at George Town in Maryland; which we have granted, so far as concerns the Troops in Maryland, under sertain Restrictions; and referred him to your Excellency as to the necessaries for the Troops in Virginia." * . * * * * We have the honor to be, With Sentiment of highest respect and Esteem, Yr: Excy's Tuost obt & most hble Servants—" Copy of a Contract made between Ebenczer Cowcll of Phila. and Jan: April 27th Madison Jur:, Theo. Bland and M. Smith, Delegates from Virga. by Philadelphia which the said Cowell engages to furnish two thousand "Rampart Mus- kets," "cut and put in good repair" in the same manner and of the same length as those now shewn in the War Office", at the rate of seven shillings and six pence Hard money," or its equivalent in paper, at the time of payment. The said Cowcll to furnish twelve hundred in four- teen days, ready for transportation to Virginia, and the residue before the day of payment— The Delegates agree to pay the above sum in sixty days from date— else, the remaining eight hundred muskets, to be sold to satisfy the demand of said Cowell &e.
Page 76
76 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES. April 27th "Dear Sir, Richmond I have just received your letter of this d&y, informing me that you have directed the State Wagons to be withdrawn from giving aid to the Continental Service; and that the Supplies for that line devolve upon me to be furnished. The reasons which you have given are no doubt sufficient; therefore I shall endeavor to supply the defi- ciency by doing all in my power. I have the honor to be With great respect & regard . Dear Sir &c." April 28th COL: THOS: READ TO THE GOVERNOR. Charlotte Co. Enclosing a resolution passed by the Militia Officers of the County— viz—"Thos: Read, Co Lieutenant, Lt: Col: Watkins, Lt: Col. Morton,— Captains, W. Morton-White, Barksdill, Jas: Morton, Gaines, Spencer, Halloway, Wallace, & Jameson, tendering their immediate services, with one hundred men, notwithstanding the militia have just returned from a "tour of duty," to repel the enemy, who they hear are at Petersburg. He is also directed to represent to his Excellency the difficulty of ge£- ting arms and ammunition the supply of those having been exhausted at the time reinforcements went to Genl: Greenc. Lieut: Madison, the bearer, will bring back any orders from the Executive. April 28th B. ED: JOEL TO THE GOVERNOR. "I have this instant received notice, that the Enemy appears to bo again in motion at Osbornes. I have dispatcht a vidette to recoinortre them, and am collecting some negroes to hew down trees, and be ready to take up the different Bridges in their rout. there is no Officer on this side but myself and I desire to know if you have any commands." I am Sir &c." April 29th JNO: ROGERS TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Hoodsburg Since his arrival at the Falls of Ohio, is surprised to hear of the asper- sions against him, in regard to his conduct while in command "at the Illinois last winter." Richd. Winston and Richd. McCarthy the authors— men of doubtful character—McCarthy under arrest for Treason over since September last, and the former, when Dept: County Lieutenant of
Page 77
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 77 Illinois prevented the people from furnishing food to his men, when they 1781. were actually starving, although ho made the most urgent appeals to April 29th him. When Col: Montgomery left that county, many of his sick men came under his own care; and he was at last driven to the necessity of killing a beast for their support altho' the County abounded in meat. But for the Kind and prompt Assistance of Mr. Bently a merchant at Karkar's he could never have reestablished the health of his men. This gentleman is now on his way to Virginia, and in consideration of the great services he has rendered the State, in cheerfully furnishing sup- plies and influencing the Inhabitants to aid him, he hopes for the favor of the Executive in his behalf. He had even pledged his personal secu- rity for the payment in Hard money of all demands of the people: but the abovementioncd persons had so prejudiced the minds of the Inhabit- ants, with the view of driving him, Rogers, out of the County, that he failed in this—Concludes—"The Expedition under Brig: Genl Clarke being on foot prevents my waiting on you at this time, in order to clear up any thing that can have been laid to my charge, & I doubt not you will anticipate my Innocence, as was the case with regard to Col: Callo- way's charge in 1779. I am informed they charge me with having shott down & barbiqued the Cattle on the Commons." To refute this he encloses the affidavits of Officers and Inhabitants, and his correspond- ence with Winston & others. Concludes "I cannot conclude without informing you that 'tis my positive opinion the people of the Illinois & Port Vincennes have been in an absolute state of Rebellion for these several months past & ought to have no further Indulgence shewn them,' & such is the nature of these people, the more they arc indulged, the more turbulent they grow—& I look upon it that Winston & McCarty have been the principle Instruments to bring them to the Pitch they are now at." Liut: Churchill Gibbs informs the Governor, that on friday the 27th April 29th Inst: five prisoners under his charge, made their escape; and he has Powhatan reason to believe the sentinels on duty at the time were "privy to it"— ** H- He has arrested them & will have them tried— Col: V. Brooking encloses to the Governor, a Return of the Militia April 29th and Arms sent to Genl: Greene's Army in Feb'y last—viz. 3 Capts: 9 Amelia Co. Liuts: 3 Drummers, 3 Fifers, 3 wagons & teams—204 Rank & file—204 guns—21 pds: powder, 24 lbs of lead—34 bayonets—
Page 78
78 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. BOLLINO STARKE TO Gov: JEFFERSON. April 30th "Honble. Sir, Fnirficld It is probable your Excellency may have beard that I reached Cumberland Old Ct. House, on Wednesday last with the books & papers belonging to yours & the other public boards; where I judged they would be perfectly secure from the encmy; but on Saturday we were alarmed with an account of their having penetrated the Country as far as Chesterfield Ct. House; at which place, they had destroyed every house &c. c.—that Genl: Mnhlenberg, conscious of his inferiority was retreating before them—this disagreeable piece of intelligence deter- mined me to recross James River, and thinking the papers would be more secure at a private than a public house, I have taken the liberty of throwing myself & them upon the hands of my old acquaintance & rela- tion Col: John Boiling, where they will remain until it becomes safe to return them. to Richmond.—unless your Excellency thinks it necessary to remove them to some other place— We receive every day, vague reports of the Conduct of our cruel foe, but can't tell what degree of credit to give thereto. If you can spare SO much time, I should be extremely obliged in receiving from your Excellency, by the return of the bearer, an account of the present sit- uation of both armies. the strength of each—the probable designs of the Enemy—our loss in ^he Action on Appomattox—the particular depredations & injury done at & in the vicinity of Petersburg & at Osbornes, and in short, every other interesting circumstance—for I had rather know the worst that can have happened, than continue any longer in a state of suspense and uncertainty. Mrs. Jefferson and your little family were very well yesterday at Elk Hill, and were endeavouring to procure a vessel to cross over the river to Mr. C. Harrison's but I doubt they would find it difficult, for the Qr. Masters had the day before collected all the canoes in the neighbourhood & sent them down the river loaded with grain for the use of the Army. I am with the most perfect Esteem your Excellency's obedient, humble Servant." April 30th CAPT: HENRY YOUNG TO COL: DA VIES—at Point of Fork. Richmond He approves Mr. Ross' plan for building the shops. The warehouses on the other side the river now on fire; but the enemy do not appear to be in force at Manchester, tho' it is hard to determine. He will send the best Boats by night up to Westham. Eight prisoners, taken by a party of militia on the other side, are just brought in—Concludes "I think we only want Arms to make the defence of this place secure."
Page 79
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 79 MAJOR HD: CLAIBORNE TO Gov. JEFFERSON. 1781. May 1st He has this day received orders from the. Marquis tie La Fayette to Richmond purchase sixty horses to mount Major Nelson's corps, and the Field Offi- cers of the Continental detachment from the North—hits given the necessary instructions and contracted for their immediate purchase. Upon the lowest calculation ho can make, based upon the quality of the - horses, they will cost "at least Four hundred thousand Pounds". He finds it nccessary also to inform his Excellency, that the Quarter Mus- ter's Department will require in addition to the above, the sum of six hundred thousand pounds; a million in all. This is a reasonable demand, in proportion to the wants of the Department. Concludes "I find it necessary to inform your Kxcellency likewise, that the unsafe Situation of my Manufactories at the Towns upon Navigation, and the manncr in which they have been unfixed in consequence of the enemy; has obliged mo to look out for some retired part within the State, where such busi- ncss may be conducted with case. I fixed upon the Point of Fork, and acquainted your Excellency with my intentions; which was requisite from a principle of respect. and pub- lic peace, as I would not do a thing which would produce any disagree- able consequences; but your Excellency was pleased to decline that approbation which I was in great hopes to have had—However as I have reconsidered the matter, and cannot find that the duties of the Con- tinent or State will by any means interfere; agreeable to the opinion of Mr. Ross, the proprietor of the land and many others, J have written to Major Drew my Assistant in that district to get some respectable Gen- tlemen to examine and make reports in writing. These I shall lay before your Excellency, and hope that their opinions will not be disagreeable to you, as the principle upon which 1 have acted is candid, and to facili- tate the business of the Department under my direction." I have the honor to be with the highest respect & esteem," &c., &c. BRIG: GENL: Ro: LAWSON TO Gov: JEFFERSON. May 1st . "Sir, It gives me great concern to find that the militia from many conn- Prince Ed- ties go forth to join Gencral Greene's Army with the greatest reluctance; w indeed there are many counties very deficient in the quota call'd for— Some of them send none at all." Expresses serious apprehensions, from the fact that so many refuse to go who should, under so many and various pretences—Regrets the neces- sity which takes them from their farms at this important season, but the
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 80
80 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. armies must be kept equal to the task of resisting the Enemy, else "our May 1st efforts have been & will be in vain"—Asks for information from Genl: Greene's and the Army ncar home—An impression prevails among the militia that altho' they may go to the Southern Army, they will be inclu- ded in the draft for the eighteen-months' men, on their return. Takes the liberty of suggesting to his Excellency, that the indulgence granted to the militia of some counties is attended with bad consequences, by encouraging others to set up claims of the like character. May list J. DlXON TO THE GOVERNOR. Gloucester His Excellency's request of the 12th ult: in regard to raising Cavalry for the Baron Stcuben received; and he was anxious to'have complied therewith, but his plan for raising a Troop of Horse not being approved, has prevented the Gentlemen from carrying out their desire to serve in that capacity—A few have, from necessity been acting as Light Horse- men,—and have been, for some weeks, on duty, endeavoring to put a stop to the daily ravages of the Enemy, committed since the arms were taken from the militia— May 1st J- MADISON JUR: THEDO. BLAND AND M. SMITH, TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Philadelphia "Mr. Nicholson, Agent for Mr. Ross arrived here yesterday. We fear it will not be possible for him to get some of the most essential articles, even if an exchange of his funds can be negotiated; and that the diffi- culty of such an exchange will be a great obstacle to his getting such articles as are to be had—As far as our efforts can avail him, they will not be spared—We had previous to his coming taken some measures which we flatter ourselves will yield about 2000 good muskets, in about two weeks." * * * * "The 1100 stand belonging to the State have at length gone foward, with most of the other articles brought hither with them. The 8th of this month is the day fixed, we understand, for the march of the Pennsylvania Line from York Town (Penna.) The Report from N. York is that Clinton is disembarking his troops— We also enclose herewith an extract* of a letter from Genl: Washington; which needs no comment. We have the honor to be with the highest respect & regard yr: Excellency's ob & hble Servants. *Not found.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 81
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 81 BENJ: CLARKE TO COLO. LEWIS BURWELL—"Copy." 1781. "Dear Sir, I take the opportunity to let yo. know that I got into Peters- May 2nd' burg on Teusday Evening in order to sell our Tobacco (the Merchants heard that the Encmy were approaching, and would not purchase)— Wednesday morning the action came on—I happened in Company with Colo. Banister and Mr. D. Rose, and several others that was not engaged. We got to a Hill and saw the greatest part of the Action, in which our men stood like 'brave fellows, but being overpowered was obliged to retreat, and the British light horse coming near. we rode off and got clear, but by my own imprudence I fell into their hands the ncxt day. You know I never signed the Association, and being lamc, was never in Arms against them. I was in hopes with that plea to save our Tobacco, -which was in the Warehouses—with this vain hope I ventured near the Town, and was soon surrounded with Armed men, who seized me, demanded my horso, and used mo very rough, but did not strike—I begged to be carried to the General, and when I came before him, ho used me very kind, as did the rest of the Gentlemen that was present. they very kindly asked me in the house, gave me a chair, and treated me with winc—After this I told him my Business, and that as I never was in Arms, I hoped ho would give me a permit to save my Tobacco in them Warehouses, which he would not promise, but gave me a writing on the back of a printed declaration to satisfy me why he destroyed the Tobacco. ho also gave me a proclamation and desired me to read them at my liesure, and they would satisfie me in everything I desired, but in the time, he told me I was a prisoner, & offered protection or parole. I said I did not choose either of them as I did not come to him for that purpose, but begged a permit to go home, which ho would not grant—I then said, I was in his power & must dispose of me as he pleased. Upon which he gave mo a pass to Mr. John Baird's & then to continue 'till further orders—the next morning he marched off with all his troops, and I suppose forgot to concern with me any more. in the Evening I went to Town, and consulted what was best for mo to do, and the Gen- tlemen advised me to go home and take care not to fall into their hands again. I followed this advice, & came some distance & met a Company of our Men in Arms, who asked me the news. I, not knowing there was any harm in what I had done, told them voluntarily the whole story as above. they said I had done wrong & carried me before a Jus- tice, who has taken on him to send me under a Guard to Head Quarters, tho' I made it appear that I voluntarily gave up the papers to the first Company I see and the whole story to them I told, not being examincd about it, which I think might have satisfied him, that I had no intent to make any private use of them. Should I be confincd & want Wit- ness, as you know that I have cheerfully complied with every thing that 11
Page 82
82 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. .May 2nd has been required of me, the Oath only excepted, I hope you'l take some pains to make it appear what Character I bear" &c— Yr: sincere friend & humble Servant" May 2nd Capt John ^Peyton informs Col: Davies, he has loaded the waggons Cumberland with stores and orderd them to the Point of Fork under care of Mr. Old C. H. jjudson, w.ith his (Davios) own baggage wagon—The wagons will return at once, to carry off the rest, in case the enemy should make a move in this direction. Accounts are just received that the enemy are going down James River. Should this be true, he thinks it best to detain the tailors and shoemakers, with a sufficiency of material to keep them at work, until proper Houses can be built for them at the Fork, the quar- ters at the Co. House being well adapted to this purpose—Asks that Mr. Ross be informed, ho should soon need linnen & Leather. JAS: BARBOUR TO THE GOVERNOR. 'Sir, May 2nd From the many Applications, I make free to address your Excel- Culpeper Co. lency once more in behalf of the Detachment of Militia from this county now on a Tour of duty. who are very uneasie, as well on acct of a Shock- ing Fever now Raging in this county, as the Planting their Crops. twenty persons have Died in about ten days, within five miles of my home, but very fortunate they are mostly such as are no Loss to the Publick. I have done all in my Power to got the crops of Corn planted of those men on duty, but we have such a number of poor distress'd Familys in this Coty: that I fear we shall not be able to accomplish it. Could they with Propriety be reliev'd with drafts of other militia, I should be very glad, & I'm the more inclined to solicit in favour of them, as I hear they have had an Action & behaved well. I am Humble Sir, Your most ob & huble Servnt." May 2nd The Depositions of Capts: John Harris, Jno: Thomas, Thos: Williams & Geo: Batty, sworn to and taken before W. Foushee, Justice of the Peace, in substance, as follows: Bichmond That, in the Engagement at or near "Coxesdale," or "Coxendale," or Cocke's & Dales" on James River, on the 27th April 1781, between the British forces, and the Fleet of armed vessels of the State of Virginia, Capt: Edward Woneycott of the "Alert" Brig, a Flag of Truce vessel, chartered by the State and then loaded with one hundred and twenty hhds: of Tobacco for the relief of the Virginia Officers & soldiers pris-
Page 83
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 83 oners of war at Charleston So. Carolina, had behaved, and conducted himself in every respect agreable to the Rules prescribed for Flags— Although frequently applied to before and during the action by some of these officers to grant sundry favors, he invariably declined to do any- thing which might compromise his position. Mr. James Maury part owncr of the Brig "Alert" deposed, that on the 8th of April 1781, he chartered the vessel to David Ross, Esqr, Com- mercial Agent of Virginia, for the purpose of proceeding und. flag of trace to Charleston, with tobacco for the Va. officers & soldiers in cap- tivity there; that on the same day he went to Four Mile creek and required Capt Woneycott to "unship all the arms & military Stores & send them to Richmond." On the 14th April those, namely, 8 four- pounders with their carriages, musquets, powder, ball &c., arrived at Richmond—one or two muskets & some powder being left on board "for the purpose of Kindling fires." He has been informed by several Cap- tains of Vessels and by persons lately come from Coxendale, where the vessel laid, that "notwithstanding her Flag" she has been taken by the British Troops under Major Genl: Phillips and carried away with the other vessels captured by them. 1781. May 2nd Circular, issued to A. Deputy Quarter Masters, by Berry Green, A. D. Q. Master, by order of Major Rich. Claiborne, giving instructions respect- ing the injustice done by the irregular depreciation of the currency at the different stations in the State, with directions accordingly; that two or more disinterested men, competent judges be selected near each Post to settle and certify to said depreciation, at the end of every month, the payment to be governed by the same for that month. May 2nd Richmond "The Deposition of George Sisson of the Cbunty of Richmond &c. declares, That he was captured on the fifteenth day of February past in Currytoman River, by the Cornwallis Brig, Capt: Downey, in company with the Sloop Hybernia, Jno. Disncy, The Trimmer Schooner, Phillips, and another Schooner, Commanded by a Capt: Thomas. I was on board the Brig only about half an Hour, then sent on board the Hybernia, where I continued until the fourteenth of March. The next day after I was made prisoner, the Hybernia and Trimmer in Company attacked a Baltimore Brig of fourteen or sixteen guns off the mouth of Rappa- hannock. the Action Continued a Considerable time very Sharp and Bloody before they quited her and run. during the whole, myself and other prisoners on board, were forced upon the quarter Deck, and then ordered to take up arms against our Countrymen—We begged and intreated the Capt: to excuse us from a Service of this Sort, but all in vain. He answered it was what all the prisoners should doe, taken by May 3d Richmond Co.
Page 84
84 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. him, but it HO happened nonc of us got hurt. the Brig fairly drubbed May 3d them both & Chased us almost into Hampton Roads. we proceeded afterwards to Portsmouth—Then up the Bay again as far as the mouth of Peanketank, when we fell in with a small schooner Boat, loaded with Alum. Salt and Sugar—this vessel as I understand was the property of one of my Countrymen, whose name I cou'd not learn, employ'd by Genl: Arnold, and bound up Rappck. as far as Port Royal, to purchase Flour and fresh Provisions—the Skipper showed his pass from General Arnold and then went off—The plan of Traiding with the Inhabitants I understood, was greatly practized in divers places, and that the Enemy got great Plenty of Provisions of almost every kind—during our Stay at Portsmouth, and on a Cruize up the Bay. I saw George Keeble son of Walter Keeble, who appeared an Active man, and acted in Character of a first Lieutenant on board a Whale Boat—" J. PEYTON TO Gov: JEFFERSON. "Sir. May 3d In consequence of our exposed situation, I have to beg our draught Gloucester may be suspended. this County haveing upwards of two hundred ^°' miles navigal water courses, altho' our guards are small, yet it takes a number of men to act as guards, and in spight of all our efforts, the encmy take the Inhabitants, even out of their beds. A Capt: of the militia & a man who was active in collecting the guards to the Capt's. assistance was taken off last night. they have been once at my house upon the same business, but fortunately I happened from home—I make this petition Sir, not in behalf of myself, but for my County & the pub- lic good, Who most Respectfully am, Sir, Your Obedt. Hble Servant" May 3d "EXTRACT* OF A LETTER DATED THE 3D MAY 1781." "Our numerous & much desired Convoy has at length arrived, under Circumstances the most fortunate & flattering. To have a passage but of 87 days from Brest. without losing a single vessel of the Convoy, to find the Enemy at the Port, ready to oppose the Entrance of it. to engage them, force them to fly & then pursue them, are Events which cannot but be glorious to the Count de Grasse— The active spirit of our General impells him to the field. Orders are given for the Embarkation of 40 large cannon, 12 mortars, & all the Apparatus for a Siege-, with all kinds of Ammunition—900 of the regi- * No autegraph or address attached to this letter.
Page 85
-CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 85 ment of will embark tomorrow & the rest immediately follow— 1781. The intended Expedition is against St: Lucia, where there remains but May 3d a Garrison of 1200 men, the Fleet having. taken on board 800 to com- pleat its Compliment. The English Squadron was stationed at that Island to cover & protect it. but our Fleet, from a happy manoeuvre has ^- deprived them of this Advantage. It was expected they would have arrived by the Dominicia Channel, where the English waited to receive them, but,to 'their great Disappointment they came the contrary way & drove the English from their Station. Rodney is now at Statia, dividing the spoil of the poor Dutch & Americans, and Hood, who Commanded the English Fleet is gone down to him of his miscarriage & make him tremble for the Fate of his Capture—This Island is garrisoned by 1300 men, under the Com- mand of General Vaughan, who have fortified the Hill in such a manner that it is now deemed impregnable—It is expected the lower Town will be set fire to—The Division of Mons: de Barras, consisting of 5 Ships of the Line, with 14 Battalions, left this Fleet in the Latitude of the Western Islands, destined for America, to reinforce the Army on that Station, May 8th—Count de Grasse has returned from his Pursuit of the Enemy. It was not consistent with the intended operations of the Fleet to continue the Chace, from the Difficulty & Delay that would attend the beating up to Windward— The Troops destined for the Attack of St. Lucia are all embarked, & got under way yesterday Evening. They consist of 4000 men. The Fleet take their Departure this morning. May Heaven ensure the suc- cess of this Expedition. If Abilities as a General & Merit as a Man, can command it, we have nothing to fear for our brave Commander. It is expected that Rodney will soon make bis appearance, with his whole Fleet, in Order to attempt the Salvation of St. Lucie—-" MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO THE GOVERNOR. May 3d Enclosing a letter from Mr. Wm. Claiborno "one of the Gentlemen Richmond employed to purchase horses for the use of the Continent" urging the policy of advancing the money to pay for his purchases, from the Treasury of Virginia, in cash—The people will not receive Certificates, on account of the delay in their liquidation and the consequent depre- ciation of their value; which retards the purchases very seriously—As evidence of this, says he can buy twelve very fine horses of gentlemen near him, if he had the funds in hand—
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 86
86 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. May 4th Point Fork DAVID Ross TO He is happy to announce, t'hat there is a prospect of abundant supply of lead from the mines; forty or fifty tons will be ready in a short time—hopes there will be no "distress" for want of it, as a thousand pounds were brought up in Col: Inncs' waggons from Wmsburg, and he expects every moment about one ton from South Quay to be delivered at P. of Fork. This will suffice, until some can be brought from the mines. Some also at Carter's Ferry can be used— May 4th Hanover C. H. JAMES DOWNIE, AND WILLM. THOMPSON TO Gov: JEFFERSON. They are prisoners of war on parole; were taken in Hampton Roads, and have been kept ever since in close confinement. They request their. paroles to be extended to leave to go to New York by way of Ports- mouth, where their families are. They were Captains of Privateers— They make this request because they are informed, most of the Officers taken by Genls: Phillips & Arnold have received gencral paroles to go where they please. Their situation is particularly bad; having no friends, and scarcely any clothing except what is "on their backs"— Countersigned. "to be paroled to Portsmouth." TH: J. May 6th COL: FRA: TAYLOR TO THE GOVERNOR. Winchester Before receipt of his Letter of the 11th April, he had discharged, part of the regiment of Guards, and delivered their Arms to the Quarter Master, most of which need repairs. The Albemarle Militia had drawn some; some were delivered to the Q. Master at the Barracks, and about four hundred were delivered to Col: Muter last October. He thinks the German Troops can safely be allowed to hire themselves to the Farmers & others in the neighborhood, as- it would save the expence of a guard, the cost of provisions, and be of benefit to the people, who need their labor much— The Regiment has just received their pay "at forty for one," but it is of no use to them, as no one will receive the money for goods, or at less than "three hundred or more to one"—Public Credit is destroyed, but he hopes the Legislature will do something to restore it—
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 87
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 87 FROM THE SAME* TO COL: DAVIES. Giving same account of disposition of Arms, as above. GEORGE MUTER COL: STATE GUARD REGT: TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. May 6th May 6th "Sir, As I have at present no Command, nor likcly to have one soon, and Richmond the enemy having gone down the river again, I intend up the country for some time— I beg leave to inform you, that I shall goe from hence to the Point of Fork, & thence to Col: Jno: Coles' in Albemarle, where I shall princi- pally reside; and that I shall with pleasure render my best Services to my Country, whenever I am honored with a Command— I am Sir, With great respect, your most obt. hble Servant" Col: George Muter informs the Governor, that his application to the May 6th Baron Steuben for a command having failed, and the enemy having Richmond gone down the river, ho should go to the upper County for a time— Repeats the substance of the letter to Col: Davies. DAVID Ross TO THE GOVERNOR. May 6th "Sir, * "Mr. Maury has just call'd upon me, and am sorry to learn Point Fork the fate of his vessell. It would appear from Mr. Phillips' letters & con- 'duct in other respects, that he is somewhat intoxicated with the Booty he's got, & the small opposition he met with—perhaps on reflection he will see the particular circumstances of this wssell in a different point of view—Mr. Maury is very anxious to apply himself, if he can be indulged with a Flag. I am persuaded your Excellency feels very sensibly for our prisoners at Charlestown, and the embarrassments in your way of relieving them is most vexatious— Mr. Maury mentions his going to Charlestown with a Flag, in order to have this matter put upon a proper footing—I am of opinion the matter must be finally adjusted at N. Y'k with Sir H. Clinton, at the same time I think it had better originate at Charlestown, where the Commandant is in some measure engaged to,the Traders who have * Bears handsome impression in wax, of beautiful private seal.
Page 88
88 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. credited our prisoners, in expectation of being paid by remittances in May 6th Tobacco. Now if a Pilot Boat could be sent to Charlestown, and the Agent fully authorized to proceed from thence to N. York, in order to have the matter fully settled, we should then be upon a certainty and either have it in our power to send supplys to our prisoners, or know that they could not be supplyed in that way at all. So far as it would fall within my province to employ Mr. Maury, I should think him unex- ceptionable, & that his misfortunes entitle him to countenance. ***** I am with the greatest respect Your most obedient Servant" May 6th JOS: REID, PRESIDENT OF PENNA. TO GOV: JEFFERSON OF VA. "Sir, Philadelphia Your Excelly's Favours of the 17th & 18th ult, have been duly received & claim our particular acknowledgements, as well for the Readi- ness, which has been shewn in concurring with our Proposition of run- ning the Line, as the friendly Sentiments express'd towards this State, which I am happy in assuring your Excelly: are perfectly reciprocal. A Family Event having .last Fall estrang'd me from publick Business for some Time, I fear a Mistake has happened in not fowarding the Accession of this State to the Terms proposed by Virginia in their Resolves of the 23d June last, or it has miscarried—I have now the Honour to inclose it, & make no Doubt it will be perfectly satisfactory. This Opportunity just presenting itself, I am obliged to defer answer- ing the Particulars of your Excclly's Letter, which respect the Mode of running the Line, as I had no Oppy. to confer with the Gentlemen hero on the subject—But I shall do myself the Honour of writing again by the ncxt Pout—In the mean time, as the season is fast advancing, I would submit to your Consideration, whether we may not fix on the 12th Junc, as the Time of the Commissioners' Meeting on the Business, & the Detail may be adjusted in the intermediate space— 1 am with much Respect & Regard, Your Excelln's most obet: Hble Sorvt" May 7th JAS: HENDRICKS TO Gt)V: JEFFERSON. "Sir, Alexandria I had the honour of your Excellency's letter of the 12th ult:, on the Subject of Building a Fort and Blockhouse at this Place, and am instructed by the Comon Council to inform you that a considerable part of the work, which they conceive necessary towards the Completion of the Battery is already executed, and one nine & two Twelve pounders mounted on travelling Carriages at the expence of a few of the inhabit-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 89
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 89 ants, who voluntarily advanced their money for that Service, expecting 1781. to be reimburs'd by Government; we intended to have made a Platform May 7th with Plank, and to have mounted another nine Pounder, but cou'd not curry this design into execution for want of more Cash. We thank you for your proposal of Sending Colo. Sonf to examine our situation, and we have not a doubt, but we shall be able to furnish the necessary num- ber of Workmen, Carriages &c. for to accomplish this design. I would not wish to enlarge upon our distress'd situation at present. I shall only observe that tnir Militia are now on duty below; that we have cheerfully contributed on all occasions towards the common cause, and that in addition to this, wo have been oblig'd to keep a constant guard in our Town, for these several weeks past, to protect the ammu- nition we have collected, and guns mounted at our own cxpence, with- out which some designing person might, in a few minutes destroy what we have with so much labour and cxpencc, been collecting. this service operates extremely Severe, on the few, who have voluntarily turn'd out on this Occasion. This picture we are induced to think, will turn your Excellency's attention towards us. relying on this Assurance, we shall expect Colo. Senf, as soon as he can call upon us, and if it were possible, a few thou- sands wou'd be well apply'd in finishing what we have begun. I have the Honour to be wth. much Rospct &c" COL: DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR. May 8th "Sir, One of the Assistants of the Quarter Master Genl: is going over to War Office the Eastern Shore. It appears to mo an opportunity which ought not to be ncglected, of disposing and securing the public stores of every kind that are there. A great deal has been lost, a great deal more is in danger, and I sub- mit it to the decision of your Excellency whether it will not be proper to Sell what cannot be immediately secured— I have the honor to be, most respectfully &c &c Endorsed. '•If Colo. Davies will be pleased to originate instructions for the above I will countersign them. there have been some partial orders given on the subject, so that the new instructions should be so framed as not to interfere with them. TH: JEFFERSON—" 12
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 90
90 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: DAVIES. May 8th Richmond Requeuing that Capt: Maxwell, or the person who may have charge of the State Ship Carpenter, be ordered to send a sufficient number of i linn to the Point of Fork, to build Battcaux— May 8th Indictment and trial of Mulatto Slave, called "Bill" alias "Will"; Prince Wm. alias William", of the Parish of Dettingen in Prince Wm. County, and the property of John Tayloe, Esq. late of Richmond County, for "Treason," in aiding and abetting, and felloniously and traiterously waging & levying war against the Commonwealth, in conjunction with divers enemies of the same, in an armed vessell &c—Upon trial by the Court of Oyer & Terminu, the following being present— Henry Lec William Carr—"i Foushee Tebbs Richd: Graham > Gents: Justices. William Tebbs William Brent J the said Slave was found guilty and condemned to be hanged by the ncck upon the public gallows, until dead— Signed by CUTHBERT BUELETT, Attoy: for the Commonwealth, and ROBT. GRAHAM, Clk. Court—" May 9th DAVID ROSS TO WM. DAVIES. Pt. of Fork Expresses surprise to learn the Arms, thought by the Governor to be on their way from the northward some weeks ago, are now to be sent for. The Hemp in the back Country ho is reserving to be used in pay- ing for Articles bought in Philadelphia, for the use of the Army. He has all along been aware of the impossibility of getting wagons to trans- port it, until the Corn is all planted "and the fields drest over"—Not- withstanding this, he will at once send one of his clerks to the upper Counties, & to Augusta to set the business in motion with the utmost expedition, as the bringing foward the anus is of the greatest importance at this time. Concludes—"I cannot help being much chagrined that our Pennsylvania brethren will not do us this friendly office at present, especially as they are in a State of peace & tmnquility compared to our situation." *****

This page contains an image.
Page 91
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 91 CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. May 9th Complaing of the extravagant and wanton waste of forage at the Richmond Point of Fork—great want of provisions there also: both of which evils may be remedied by sending up a Commissary of Issues. "Wo set on the trial of Billy a mulatto Slave belonging to John May llth Tayloo Esqr., who was convicted and condomed by the Court, for High Prince Wm. Treason, by four of the Judges—We were agst. his condemnation because a Slave in our opinion cannot commit Treason agst. the State, not being admitted to the Priviledges of a Citizen, owes the State no Allegiance, and that the Act declaring what shall be treason, cannot be • intended by the Legislature to include slaves who have neither lands or other property to forfeit, and there was no Positive Proof before the Court that the said Slave wont voluntarily on board of the Enemys' Vessel and took up arms: there was Proof that he was taken in Company of Part of the Crew of the said Vessel on shore, who made their escape on being pursued by an Armed Vessel from Alexandria. On his defence ho says he was taken in an oyster boat and forced on board agst. his will, and that he ncver took up arms agst. the Country, and no Positive Proof that he certainly did aid or assist the Enemy, of his own free will. H. LEE- WILLIAM CARR" BRIG: GEN: Ro: LAWSON TO Gov: JEFFERSON. May llth "Sir, ***** "The farther instance which your TJonble: board has been pleas'd Prince to hpld out to me, of their Confidence Still in my poor exertions to war °°' Serve my Country, excites my most grateful acknowledgements; and Heaven knows how much it is my fix'd determination to do all in my power to prevent our Enemys from carrying into execution, their horrid designs against the liberty & Independence of America. The prospect of a certain junction of Cornwallis' forces with those of Phillips in this State, I own is to mo alarming; because we cannot immediately collect a force equal to the task of curbing their licentious Cruelty to the unhappy friends to liberty, who fall within their power. But 1 am nevertheless consoled with an opinion, that a short time will produce Such a force in the field, as will confinc them to narrow bounds, if not cxpell them from this State. I am truly Sensible of the honor done me, by your Honble board, in confiding to me the recommenda- tions of my officers, and I assure your Excellency, that respect to the
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 92
92 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. -mull reputation I have acquired in the military line, added to the May llth great inclination I have to obtain into my Brigade. good Officers, will prevent me from recommending any Gentlemen, but those I have much cause to hope well of— I have the honor to be with the greatest respect Sir, Your Excellency's' most obet & much obliged ser't" May 12th WM. LANOBORN, AID DE CAMP TO M. DE LAFAYETTE, TO Gov: JEFFERSON. "Sir, Tuckaho I arrived here last evening, in hopes of having the honor of seeing your Excellency—The reinforcenjents that you expected we should receive from Fredericksburg, and the Counties adjacent have not arrived, nor have we reason to expect but a very small part of them, shortly, from Genl: Wheedon's letter, which I inclose—The Marquis requests that you would please inform him of the number called in, the riflemen, the deficiency of arms, when you think they may arrive, what number of mounted militia—All the reinforcements, the Genl: requests may be immediately ordered by your Excellency to ren- dezvous at Richmond—I think it necessary to forward a letter which was yesterday received from Genl: Nelson—In consequence of it, the Marquis would beg leave to suggest to your Excellency, the propriety and necessity there is, for having immediately brought in, all horses that can possibly fall into the Enemies hands. he is informed that the Country exposed to the Enemy on ^ho South side of Appomattox abounds in the best horses of this Country—Should all these fall into their hands, they will have Cavalry almost equal to our little Army. I have directed Major Claiborne to hold in readiness four Quarter Masters, who will be furnished with a small force of Cavalry, and proceed on that business as soon a« they can procure your Excellen(es' Warrant. The Boats which was directed to be built, are not yet about.—I doubt not but your Excellency is sensible of the importance of them, and have given every necessary order relative to them. Tools seem to be wanting—I am informed that there are many men with Tools at the Point of Fork, who are engaged to build store houses. those men could be of infinite service to us at this critical time—should your Excellency think so. we may promise ourselves a speedy supply of Boats & many other conveniences which we cannot do without— Our Army are at present near Kingsland—the Enemy from the latest accounts remain at Petersburg, except a small party that advanced up the river for six or seven miles.
Page 93
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 93 Genl: Nelson's Brigade of Militia will very soon expire & will go home. 1781. unless they can have assurances of a relief. May 12th I have the Honor to be Yr: Excellency's most obt Scrvt—" COL: LE MAIRE TO Gov: JEFFERSON. May 12th Having-met with severe misfortunes he returns a second time, since Boston his departure from Virginia, to present his petition to the Governor and Council of the State, that they will cause an Act of the Legislature to be passed Confirming his title to the two thousand Acres of land, allowed him by the Governor and Council Nov: 9th, 1779, in considera- tion of the services rendered the State by him—This act will be particu- larly advantageous to him at the Court of Prance, as attesting "the honor, satisfaction & gallantry" with which he ban served in the American Cause; and will secure the same approbation of the King, which he accords to those French Officers who servo within the limits of his own Realms— MANN PAGE TO Gov: JEFFERSON. May 13th As Executor of the la'te Col: John Tayloc he solicits the pardon of Mannsficld a Slave called "Billy" condemned to death for High Treason, especially as the decision of the Court was clearly illegal—If the pardon cannot be granted, requests ho may be reprieved— Countersigned. '•A reprieve to the last day of June to be made out." TH. J.- . CAPT: NATH: REID TO COL: . May 13th "DeaCol: Since my arivel at this place I have had a very easy time of New London it, not more than Seven soldiers has been delivered to me, and two of them has deserted." * * * "The tell me that Arnold & his crew has burnt all the Hutts at Chesterfield C. House, and 1 am afraid has took my portmantew & cloaths, which I left at Mr. Balls. if the are gon I wish the first man that puts any of them on may brake bis neck. I wish I know'd whether the enemy was at Mr. Ball's or not." * * * * * "Capt: Lovely went through this Town to the Sweet Springs. he was very unwell at the time—I expect he is dead as I have heard nothing of him since he went away"— I am dear Colo. with Esteem &c"
Page 94
94 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. May 13th Richmond CAPT: H. YoUNG TO Col: WM. DAVIS. Dear Sir, I have concluded to build insted of Rafts, two scows—I have secured hands that understand this business well, so that they can be compleated in a short time & may be serviceable to us hereafter: I propose that they shall be narrow & long—” x: x “There is at the Foundry two hundred bushels of Coales, which I intend to send to the point of fork, if a conveyance by water can be provided—It appears to me that the stores will never be remov’d from this place—Yesterday I was inform'd that there was at Warwick, upwards of one hundred bushels of Salt, the property of the State. I do think 'tis very imprudent to make purchases at this time—particu- larly at this place—” × >k + >k “Will you be pleas'd to inform me the terms on which the Brick- layer is engag’d at the Point of Fork, and whether another person may not be admitted into the service of the Public without coming under his direction—I wish you cou’d be with us when the Governor does not stay here, your presence is much wanted. I cant think of the Point of fork with patience; was it a place of security, I wou'd be willing to gratify Mr. Ross at the expense of every public advantage—I am very diffident & dont like to give my opinion until I have herd the opinions of others—then 'tis too late, because differing in opinion is a kind of censure on the judgment of the person differ'd with—great folks dont like it—There is not a man in high office in this State, (yourself excepted) that I wou’d unfold my self so freely to— The Point of Fork is an improper place (because tis insecure) for us to risque every thing at-let us then do right for once & center our grand views at Stanton; because tis a secure one, we shall find ten thousand advantages arising from that single circumstance alone, for my part I do not conceive that there is one advantage at the Fork, that we shall be deprived of at Stanton, the single article of Pit Coals excepted, which I conceive to be mearly ideal, because those that have been used to work with Char Cole prefer it—Shou'd the Enemy take. port at Alexandria as 'tis probable they will, the Rout from North to South will be Stanton, because ’tis most convenient it shou'd be so- The Governor is the best man in the world & if I mistake not open to conviction. Were you to use your influence with him, I think he might be prevailed on to give up the Point of Fork, that will one day damn the exertions of the State— Phillips has taken post at Petersburg with his Army—he has detached a party, to Amelia—they have burnt several mills & stolen a number of Horses & sheep—Another party consisting of Six Com- panies have taken post at Randolphs' on this side of Appomattox— The Marquis for the purpose of surprising this party Detach'd the good Muhlenberg with all the Cavalry & seven hundred Infantry—A
Page 95
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 95 very heavy fire was herd here near Petersburg one our before day this 1781. morning—I have detain'd the bearer two hours to give you the result May 13th of this affair, but the particulars have not transpired—As for other intelligence I know of nothing that can be depended upon from North or South, but that Cornwallace was at Halifax last Monday—I fear the consequences of this expedition to Randolphs, as the intentions of the party was talk'd of by the Children in this place. Suppose the Enemy had got information of Muhlenburg's design, which may be the case if there is one man that is their frå. within twenty miles of this place, cou’d not they throw over the Appamatox, the whole of their force— º Do you think 'tis possible that Walker can be forgiven for his ill timed visit— I am yr. Obet. Servant—” P. S. “I fear this navigation Colo. will induce you to be reconcil'd to this Point of fork—let me ask you one question, to convince you that the navigation even above the falls has been of disadvantage to us. Dont you think since the first alarm, that with the means we had in our power, we cou’d have remov’d the greatest part of our stores to Staunton, had we not depended on the navigation above the falls. If the truth cou’d be known, we have lost as many stores by attempting to convey them by water, as would have purchased twenty wagons & Teams—I don't know why this may not be in some measure always the case, as the navigation is very uncertain particularly upwards—delays & halts are inevitable— Excuse blotting, ten persons are in the room—” RICHD. JAMEs To Col: DAVIEs. May 13th He will finish the Batteau immediately, according to the directions, Muddy as to size &c.—If the enemy do not interfere, he will have her in the Creek water in three days.-Will set about another at once—Wishes the flour in his mills was removed— Jos: REID, PREST. of PENNA. To Gov: JEFFERson of VA—In Council. May 14th “Sir, Since I had the honor of addressing your Excellency on the Sixth Philadelphia Instant, we have conferred with the Commissioners, who. Settled the agreement entered into at Baltimore in August 1779. And we fully concur in the method proposed by your Excellency of Settling the extent of the five degrees of Longitude by Astronomical Observations, not only as determining the present Question with more Certainty, but as it tends
Page 96
96 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. to solve a problem both useful and curious to the Learncd world. But May 14th as we are sorry to find that it is the opinion of our Gentlemen of Science, that the Season will be too far advanced before the observations can commence, and more especially as the principal Astronomical Instru- ments in this City, arc so Scattered and out of Repair, as to require a Considerable time to put them in order. For these reasons, tho' with great reluctance we have thought it best after expressing our full acqui- escence in the mode suggested by your excellency, to propose tho first of May ncxt, to run the line by Astronomical Observations—But in the mean time, for tho Sake of Settling the minds of tho People, and pre- venting disputes among the borderers, to have a temporary linc run by Common Surveyors from the termination of Mason and Dixon's line to the Ohio, or if that should not be agreeable, to extend it twenty three Miles from the End of Mason and Dixon's line, that being the extent of five Degrees, according to common computation—In this case we only propose to mark the trees, avoiding as much as possible unnecessary expence—We hope this last proposition, in which we have no other intentions than to quiet the minds of the People, and compel Militia Services, will be acceptable to your Excellency, as the best and indeed the only expedient which can now be adopted. I am with great Consideration and Respect Your Excellency's most obedient and very humble Servant—" May 14th JOHN TAYLOR TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Caroline Co. Recommending in strong terms Jos: Jones, who is willing "to contract for tho repairing of Arms & making Bayonetts &c."—Adds—"He is himself a person of property, and is son to a Gentleman in very good circumstances—I mention this to inform you that ho hath been led to this branch of busincss from a peculiar strength of mechanical genius, and not from any motive of necessity." May 16th CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Dear Sir, . Richmond We have no certain accounts that Cornwallace has crossed the Roanoak—Phillips is at Petersburg; his army dispos'd from thence to City Point. The Marquis is seven miles below this. Yesterday the Enemy mad.e an attempt to land .some where. Major Dick fell in with them. took a Boat with twelve Prisoners. On the 25th of last month Rodden (Rawden) sallied on Greene. our men were washing & cooking— Colo. Washiugtons' extra ordinary exerfions on this occasion prevented very serious consequences—he charged twice or thrice with success—
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 97
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 97 Our loss one hundred and fifty in killed, wounded & missing, made 1781. prisoners by us, fifty odd rank and file, twelve officers and five sur- May 16th goons—The faculty suffered—This acct. may be depended upon—I have it from under the hand of Singleton, who says we ran from Victory. The Carriages that was at West-ham, by Order of the Marquis will have guns put on them—Our Horses are all lost as soon as we got them—Mr. Southall will go with Capt: Brown to Hanover Ct. House to assist in removing the brass Cannon. I have directed that they be sent to some landing near Goochlund Ct. House. The o'nly method that I can devise for removing these heavy pieces is to swing them at the Britch & let the Muzzle trail on the ground— Mr. Tilman at Hanover Ct. House has a carry log & an excellent ox team, these may be had—Shou'd the plan propos'd not answer, he, Mr. Southall, will if in his power devise a better & one that will— I propos'd to the Governor to order twelve Militia men from hanover to assist in removing the Cannon—I have rocciv'd no answer; recourse must be had to hire, which is difficult and expensive—I have Orders for assisting in the Building a number of Boats—they are to be light and to move with the Army. I am yr: obet: Hblo Servant—" JAMES ARBUCKLE, CHAS: BAGWELL AND D. BOWMAN, COMMISSIONERS May 16th FOR THE COLLECTION OF TAXES, TO Gov: JEFFERSON— "Sir, May it please your Excellency— We the Commisrs. for the Collection of the Taxes in this County, Accomack think it our duty to inform your Excellency of the disorder & confu- sion which at this time prevail here, which impedes if not totally gre- vents the collection of the Said Taxes, which we do, as well to justify ourselves & to make it appear that we have not been remiss in our duty, as to give timely information to your Excellency that Some Speedy & effectual remedy if possible may be applied to put a stop to Said disorders. With respect to the 90 pr: 'Cent Tax laid last May Session, a sus- pending clause prevented the operations thereof until your Excellency (having received advice that a majority of the other States had acceded to that resolution of Congress) should issue a proclamation commanding the Same to be put in execution— / ^, This County being at so great a distance from the seat of Govern- ''ment and the enemy last fall infesting the bay in such a manner that our Representatives could not attend the Assembly, we never received -intelligence whether such proclamation had issued or not, until the 3d 13
Page 98
98 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. J T 1781. day of Dec last, the communications between the shores been almost May 16th entirely cut off. In consequence of the information received, the Assessors were imme- diately summoned to attend, and a meeting was held on the sixth day of the same month. the assessors returns of the first payment were made to us on the 30th of January following, and not before. We then held a Court for the purpose of redressing Grievances according to Law, and the Clerk was ordered to record the Same and draw up a List for the Sheriff to make his Collection by. Before'this could be finished, about the 16th or 17th of Feby, the Act of Assembly came to hand laying an additional Tax of two pr: Cent. on all property taxed in Specie. We then ordered the Clerk to make up (as speedily as possible from the Assessors returns) lists of the Two pr: Cent. tax. which were finished, given into the Collectors hands, & Bonds taken according to Law by the 8th day of March last, while we in conjunction with the four senior Magistrates & field Officers, on the second, third, fifth & sixth days of same month classed the Militia—This business prevented the lists of the first payment of the General Tax from being got ready for the Sheriff until the 10th of March—The Col- lectors were immediately ordered on the execution of their office & forty days, the utmost limits for their returns to be made in—They proceeded at first without interruption, and although the people complained that they were not equally treated with the rest of the State, not having it / in their option to pay the principal produce of their lands (to wit Corn \ & Oats) in discharge of their Taxes, yet fair promises were given, and —no obstruction or opposition to the Law was apprehended— / In such a Situation were our affairs when a Set of men in the County of Northampton undertook to oppose the Draft, which they effected. from that time if not before, a number of people in this County had it contemplation to oppose the same here. and consequently thought it unnecessary to pay the Tax. On the 23d of April. the day appointed to •put the Draft Act in execution, there assembled at the Court house, to the amount of 150 or 200 men, armed with Clubs to oppose it. George Corbin Esqr., who acted as County Lieutenant endeavoured strenuously to appease the people by the most soothing and powerful arguments, but could not alter their intentions. Colo. Corbin ordered the Clerk to look on the list for a Class, who then appeared and pro- duced to him a man hired for the War. While the Clerk in the Court house was searching the list & having found the Class. laid the list on the table before him, one of the mob snatched up the list & put the same in his pocket, telling the others, who by this time had crowded into the Court house. that if they approved of what was done, to signify the same by three cheers, which was accordingly complied with. Colo. Corbin endeavoured to prevail on them to return the list, but in vain. and heavy threatenings were denounced by them should any set of

This page contains an image.
Page 99
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 99 men attempt to draw lots. the Colo., together with the other Gentle- 1781. men who presided over the business, having held a consultation & think- May 16th ing it impossible to carry the law into execution that day, but supposing they might do so at some future opportunity when men had time to reflect cooly on the consequences of opposing the laws of their Country, they thought it most prudent to postpone the same until the Thursday following, the Clerk having taken care to preserve a duplicate of the list which the mob had deprived him of. Thursday, the same set of men appeared (some few excepted, who protended they were convinced by the Gentlemen's arguments, and being men of property did appa- rently head the mob, but were generally beleived to act behind the Scene) armed with clubs, swords, guns & pistols, and took possession of the Court house, at the door of which they plased a centinel with his musket. Colo. Corbin went & talked to them moderately, endeavouring to dissuade them from such an unlawful act, but they all unanimously . declared they were determined to oppose the Draft at the hazard of their lives, & that it was in vain for him to attempt to alter their reso- lution. the Colo. told them he should be obliged to take an account of their names & ordered the Clerk who stood by him to note them down accordingly. This did not at all intimidate them, neither was it possible to carry the Law into execution—next day a Court Martial was sum- moned & held at Onancock, when those who appeared to the said Court Martial, the most culpable were deemed Soldiers for the time proscribed by Law, whose names will doubtless be transmitted to your Excellency officially by Colo. Corbin. I These lawless proceedings have thrown the County into the greatest confusion imaginable. people begin to publish, propagate & avow the most dangerous doctrines, sentiments & opinions. Gentlemen from whom better things might be expected, have gone so far as to tell the people they have no occasion to pay the Two pr: Cent Tax. Some of the Collectors themselves have very large sums of money in their hands, which they will not pay to the Commissioners, but declare to the people they will return them their money. One set of Collectors have already settled with us, others have paid about one half, one third &c-VThose people who have already paid, complain that they are hardly dealt with, some having paid and others not.—Some Collectors dont chuse to collect & others are threatened if they attempt it, and Anarchy, Confusion & disorder reigns triumphant amongst us. We understand there is a peti- tion on foot, to be sent to the Assembly, praying to be exempted from a draft. we know not what may be the event of that petition, nor do we know how to conduct ourselves in this dilemma. It is not in our power to enforce the collection in the situation our affairs are at this present. we know there is a positive Act of Assembly requiring the same, but we want the ability, not the inclination to put the same in execution—
Page 100
100 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. We hope & humbly beg your Excellency will take the matter into May 16th consideration & condescend to inform us in what manner to act in this very singular and extraordinary occasion— We are Yr: Excellency's Most obt. hblo Servants—" "P. S. We have transmitted to yr: Excellency Tobo. Notes to the Amt: 30.122. N. which is all we have as yet collected—" May 16th Copy of Search Warrant, granted to Abel West, by Col: de. Fucks, Portsmouth British Commdt., and signed by M. Houscal, Capt: Amcr. Legion, to recover property taken from him by one Robertson, Master of a Burge &e—and one Stephen Mister with order for arrest of the latter; with instructions to all "his Majesty's leige Subjects and others" to assist said West in the recovery of his goods &c— May 16th A "Return" of Colo. Taylor's Regt: of Guards—of seven companies, Winchester commanded by Capts: Burnley, White, Purvis, Porter, Pettus, Meri- wether and Kennedy respectively—Officers present 1. Colonel, 1. Major, 4 Captains—2 Lieutenants & 3 Ensigns. 2 Fifers— Privates present, & entitled to discharge 98— Discharged 74. Deserted 31. May 16th BRIG: GENL: LAWSON TO THE GOVERNOR. "Sir, Prince Ed- You were pleas'd in your favor of tho 11th Inst: from Colo. Skip- ward Co. with's, to inform me that altho' the Executive could not constitutionally repeat the instance of seperating from their authority the right of appointing the Officers for the respective Commands in the Militia; that they would nevertheless do me the honor to attend to the recommenda- tions I might make, of such Gentlemen as 1 wish'd to have as my Field Officers. I have taken the liberty therefore of recommending agreeably to tho inclos'd list—, and shall think myself very happy in having those Gen- tlemen in my command,—the whole of whom, three excepted, were out with me on the former occasion, and a few instances excepted, held rank consistent with what I now wish your honorable board to confer. Some of these officers, when appointed, must be sent on to take charge of the militia already marched to Salisbury, as no Field Officers have yet been sent to that post. This is undoubtedly nccessary, whether those
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 101
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 101 militia advance farther into the South or return to this State, an General 1781. Greene shall order. From your Excellency's assurance to me, I have May Kith ventured to tell all of those Gentlemen, that they would receive appoint- ments, agreeably to the rank respectively annex'd to their names. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect &c." COL: FRA: TAYLOR TO THE GOVERNOR. May l6th A Board of Officers assembled by order of Col: Wood, have just dcci- Winchester ded that all the Soldiers belonging to the Regt: of State Guards, now under his command are entitled to their discharge, except a few belong- ing to Capt: Purvis' Company. This results from the fact that the men were enlisted to serve only in Albemarle at the Barracks, during the stay of the Convention Prisoncrs at that place. Col: Wood has applied to the Lieut: of Frederick Co. for fifty men to act in place of these guards. The arms of the discharged men will be turned over to the Quartermaster at this Post—Regrets they are in such bad order; more than half of them were in this condition when received—The Guard of Militia is to be only for two weeks, when it is supposed Orders will come from the Executive, giving directions for guarding the Troops in future. REUBEN MITCHELL TO THE GOVERNOR. May l6th "Sir, This is the Sixteenth day that I have been confined in the Provost Hanover Guard, without any kind of tryal (except before Genl: Nelson, who said ^ H- my case did not come under his cognizance), and as a free man and citi- zen of the State, who has complyed with every Law and regulation from the beginning of the War; I think I have a right at least to a hear- ing before I am condemned to an imprisonment in the same House. with a parcel of Murderers and Felons, which to a man of common feelings must be worse than an honourable death. I have never yet been able to. get a copy of the charge lodged agst: me, Tho' have been inform'd the first charge was, that I gave the Enemy 'intelligence at Petersburg. At which time I can prove by many wit- nesses. that I was on board my Brigantinc (the Wilkes) endeavoring to save her from the Enemy. The circumstances of my suddenly going from Richmond, and that in a very unseasonable hour, I must own, gave too great a handle to the malicious and ill dispos'd to injure my char- acter; and as your Excellency has perhaps ncver had the particulars from any but my accusers, I must beg leave to transgress so far on your Excellency's patience as to trouble you with a concise narrative of my proceedings in that affair.
Page 102
102 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. On Wednesday the 25th ult:. in the evening, a Mr. Sadler from War- May 16th wick inform'd me that the sailors hud all left the Brige. Wilkes, and that she was oblige to remain at Osbornes for want of hands to work her— and at the same time he offered me a passage as far as Warwick in Capt: Johnson's Boat, which I excepted. Went immediately and gave my Keys to Mrs. Gautier (as she swore before Genl: Nelson) and went down to Warwick that night, after dark in Cap: Johnson's Boat, (he in com- pany) where I stay'd all night—and in the morning set off down to look for my Brige. with six hands that Capt: Johnson was so good as to lend me, to get her up to Warwick: when I intended to strip her, carry her sails and rigging into the Country, land her cargo, & sink the Hull— between the hours of 12 & 1. o-clock, I got to the Fleet at Cox & Dales: and found by enquiry, that my Brig lay opposite Mrs. Coxes new build- ings, between the Fleet and Osbornes. And as I was on the south side of the River, which was the worst way, I got a put over the River, and went down to Mrs. Coxes, where I found the Goochland and Henrico Militia, and after talking with a number of my acquaintances from both Counties, I went on Board; but as there was a smart current in the River and the Wind right ahead, I ncver got under way until late in the afternoon, after a Thunder Storm, when the wind swerved—I got into the Fleet a little before sunset, and as I had a fair wind, intended up to Warwick that night; but was not allowed to leave the Fleet, altho' three men & two boys was the whole of my Crew; besides the six hands I had borrowed, which were to leave mo as soon as I came to Anchor. On Friday morning I went up to Richmond again, with two hands to get down a boat & some provisions, as we had none; and to get Wag- gons to get the sails and rigging immediately away, but before I could procure either, heard of the attack and soon after, of the loss of the Fleet. Since then I remained at my store in Richmond, untill I was. put in the Guard House by the accusation of a rascal, whose courage ncver yet carried him in a hostile manner, in two Gun shot of the Encmy, unless the River was between him & them. I have only to beg your Excellency to bring me immediately to a tryal, when I have not a doubt of clearing up my character, £c. &c." * ***** I am with due respect, Your Excellency's mo: ob & hubl Servt." May 16th DAVID Ross TO Gov: JEFFERSON. ***** Richmond He is sorry to inform him that, by "the villiany of the waggon master & the folly of one of our Light Horse" sent to conduct the goods from thence to Point of Fork, the whole of them have fallen into the hands of the Encmy. Hopes the offenders will be punished—
Page 103
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 103 His agent at Philadelphia informs him "that 2000 stand of arms will 1781. be ready this week"—He has been obliged to use Hemp in payment, May 16th and Congress can do nothing for him financially. Tobacco worthless there; hemp only available—,A man to be depended upon, has just informed him that Cornwallis "crossed the River on Saturday, 1500 foot, near 200 horse." Phillips ho believes is dead—" "Statements of the Circumstances attending the loss of the Goods at Peters- burg." "Having a quantity of cloth, canvass & lead coming from So. Quay to Richmond, about the time of the Enemy's approach to Petersburg, a few hours after the action that happened there, I applied to Col. Call who com- manded the Light Dragoons for one of them to go down Express to South Quay, and conduct the waggons to the Fork, by the upper road. Col: Call referred to Genl: Muhlenberg—I applied to him and received for answer that the horsemen were much wanted, and that he did not think there was much danger of any thing at South Quay, having left 400 men to cover that place, but on my insisting on the necessity of sending some person immediately, he desired mo to send one of the Light Draggoons—I accordingly employed John Baird of Capt: Boiling's Company, a man of fair character who was well mounted & armed—I gave him his instructions that night, which was in substance, to proceed immediately to South Quay (unless he met the waggons with the goods) and conduct the said stores by the upper road to the Fork of James River, taking the utmost care to avoid the Enemy, and to apply to the Militia Officers for assistance when necessary." ^Baird's account of the matter." "That ho proceeded as far as Sussex and met the waggons, he con- ducted them to Dinwiddio Court house, and left one Lanier with them to conduct them to Namoseen Bridge, that he went on before in order to provide forage at that place, and to procure information if the Enemy had any parties out on that road—that ho waited there a sufficient time for the waggons, and as they did not arrive, he returncd again to look after them—that he was informed by Lanier, one Bonner, owner of the waggons had come after them, and contrary to his orders, had carried them to his own house 8 miles below Petersburg—that the goods remained safe there 'till General Phillips left that place and went down the river—The goods were then brought to Petersburg—application was made to Davis the Quarter Master for waggons to remove the stores to the Fork, but he excused himself from furnishing any at that time, but promised to recommend the matter to Mr. Holmes his superior— Another of those under Quarter Masters sent him, the said Baird to So. Quay, for the shoes for the Marquisses Troops, promising to have the above stores removed, and in his absence, the Enemy returned and no
Page 104
104 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Muy I6lli May I6th Richmond May 17th Richmond part of the stores were removed—Thus the Public lost about 2000 yards of blue, white and scarlet cloth—Near 4000 yards of Canvass, and a ton of lead—-Davis and Bonncr are within the Enemy's lincs—This matter requires that particular enquiry should be made into the Conduct of the several parties concerned—" BERRY GREEN, A. Q. MASTER, TO COL: DAVIES at Charlottesville. "Dear Colonel, Your favor of the 12th was received by onc of the State Expresses, the same day at 6 o-clock P. M." He is sorry to hear of the bad behavior of "Snead"—who has been severely reprimanded for his conduct—He hopes Col: Davies will always promptly communicate any misconduct, or abuse of trust, on the part of these Express Riders,—Major Claiborne is absent, or he would have replied himself. SURGEON MATH: POPE TO THE GOVERNOR. "Hon'bleSir, I was this day called by the Marquis la Fayette to attend him at \Vitten, the result of which was to provide, at a proper distance, a general Hospital for the reception of the sick and wounded. if we should be obliged to fly from the Enemy. 1 told the Marquis and Genl: Mulilenlnirg, who was present, that 1 kncw of no place, nor had I power to take a place, if I could find onc, at such distance as they would recom- mend, proper for the purpose—A church was mentioned near Ground Squirrel Bridge, or in that neighbourhood, but I am not authorized to take one could I find one convenient or one that would answer the pur- pose—A church alone will not do; there must be a House or two ncar it. I shall be extremely happy and esteem it a favour will instruct me how to proceed and send me such orders as you shall think fit. I am to beg your Excellency's forgiveness, if I trouble you still farther—I am left here. alone, or no onc to instruct or direct me how to proceed and deprived. of every means of executing my office by the removal of all the public stores, and find it in vain to send after them: indeed no one will obey any orders from me, unless authorized by a higher power, or such power vested in me—I am away from all the Genl: Officers, and if I was not, in many instances their orders would avail nothing. I have taken the liberty Sir, to inclose you a list of necessarys 1 am in immediate want of for the Hospital Department. and knowing no other mode of obtaining them than thin, I hope I shall be excused. You Sir, can order the pack- ages to be opened, and the inclosed articles sent down in a cart or wag- gon. which are so much wanted, and will give so much relief, not only to the sick and wounded, but to, Hon'ble Sir, Your most obet & respectful Servt."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 105
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 105 MAJOR EDMD. MASSED. HYRNE TO COL. WM. DAVIES. 1781. May 17th A Cartel between Genl: Greene and Earl Cornwallis, to be carried Head Quar- into effect, "the beginning of July" having been agreed upon; and the *f™ ConSft- placo of Exchange being James River, he urges the appointment of an Assistant at once, to aid in the collecting the prisoners at that place— Requests his address as soon as he may be nominated, in order that a correspondence may be opened with' him. Col: Holmes of Winchester, he is aware, acts in that Department, but he is ignorant of the character of that officers functions— MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO Gov: JEFFERSON. May 18th "Sir, I inclose to your Excellency a memorandum of what Major Genl, Richmond the Marquis de la Fayette, and Major Genl: the Baron de Stcuben have required of me, and the stated periods for their delivery. As the resource from which I have derived my support ever since I have been in the department, is the only one to which I can have recourse in this matter, I beg leave to trouble your Excellency for the aid of Govern- ment again. It is with much satisfaction, I acknowledge the receipt of the several Warrants for money from the Executive; but as I have been disap- pointed in obtaining the cash from the Treasury, in the ample manner, which the exigences of the Service required, owing to tho manner in which that office, with all others in the lower parts have been drove about, I am fearful that it will still be deficient, from tho large draughts that will be made by tho Several different departments, and theroforo I am induced to propose, that tho Wagons, horses, gears, drivers & oars- men, be procured in some manner different, from purchasing, or hireing for immediate payment, as your Excellency thinks best— With respect to the Boats, Carriages, Oars, Horse Accoutrements and Camp Equipage, I shall endeavour to furnish them with what money I may get from the Treasury, upon tho Warrants which I have already in possession; and when they are out, shall beg leave to ask for others. As your Excellency must be well inform'd of the necessity of dispatch in what I am directed to do, I beg leave to ask for an answer of precis- ion, that I may report accordingly; but should it be too tedious to adopt a mode other than by purchasing, will your Excellency direct that money shall be immediately advanced, to enable me to comply with the requisi- tions? I have had no assistance, but from the Government of Virginia, neither do I expect any thing shortly. I have the honor to be with the highest esteem & respect Your Excellency's most obedient, humble Servant. 14
Page 106
106 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. "Memorandum of Articles to be furnished by the Deputy Qr. Master for the State of Virginia." May 18th By order of Lafayctte,—"70 Wagons, with four good horses & gears, for immediate use. and drivers to each—50 good draught horses for contingenees—25 Boats to be built & mounted on Carriages—100 good draught horses for the boats—25 sets of gears complete for ditto— 25 drivers to be engaged, for ditto—150 Oarsmen to be engaged, for ditto—150 oars, with Stuff to muffle them—25 carriages, with four wheels, for ditto, to be built." "For Maj: Genl: Baron Steuben—100 dragoons' horses to be purchased & completely accoutred with Saddles &c., by the 1st of June—100, more, in addition to the above, accoutred &c. by 1st of July—Tents, Camp Kettles, Axes, Hatchets, 10 wagons, with four horses each, and drivers. 1000 wooden Canteens, Knapsacks, Havre-Sacks, Bags, and Portman- teaus, for a detachment to be equiped at Albemarle Old Courthouse for the Southern Army By the 1st of June." May 18th R. LINDSAY, LIEUT: COL: COMMDG., TO COL: DAVIES. Charlottes- The arms purchased by Col: Febiger for the State, about 1100 Stand, according to the waggoners accounts have arrived at this place, instead of being carried to Richmond—This was by Genl: Weoden's verbal orders at Fredericksburg—He asks for instructions as to how they are to bo disposed of &c. May 18th JAMES MILLER TO "Ma. ANDREW CRAWFORD, MERCHT., "LEEDS." "Dear Sir, Port Royal, I have ship'd the 3 hhds. abd. the Molly, as directed & paid Caroline Co. \Varehouso expenses as underneath to yr. debt. There is also 3 Bars of Iron, which you will order Harry to land at Blandficld for our friend Beverly, who is now up in Culpeper—if the vessel does not go so low down, you will take charge of it for him. Capt: Harry has been charged here with stealing negroes, with an intent to carry them to the Enemy. the follow I suppose loves a Wench & had given some of that Sex a passage in his vessel, but his being employ'd by a Tory, raised a suspicion, & he likely to lose his good character by it. how you will come off, I know not—1 understand you are threatened & I suppose you will be waited upon by some Gentlemen from King George on the occasion. I thought proper to give you this notice, that you might be prepared for such a visit. I am, Dear Sir, Your most obt Servant."
Page 107
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 107 "Gibsons'Inspect. 2 hhds. Tax £32— 1781. Roys' Do. 1" Tax & rent 17.. 16.. May 18th Boat hire, 9:. — £58.. 16." CAPT: SAML: PATTESON TO COL: DA VIES. May 18th "The arms from Philadelphia, purchased by Col: Febiger for this State Charlottes- arrived hero last night." The wagoners will not go any farther, being great losers in the depreciation of Continental money, for which they agreed to come—They say it has depreciated to "four and five hundred for one" within a few days—No wagons to be gotten at this place; and if they could be, he knows not where to carry the arms. Mr. Anderson has as many as he can take care of, and they cannot be stored at Char- lottesville "with any tolerable degree of security"—Concludes "Col: Lewis has agreed to take us into his family, about half a mile from this place. he has exceeding good pasturage and I am persuaded we shall have the best quarters in the neighbourhood. We shall be very much pestered in Town, for of all places in this world, it is the most dis- agreeable." RETURN OF THE MILITIA, FOWARD ED BY BEN: BLUNT Co: LIEUTENANT. May 18th 1. County Lieut: 1. Colo., 1. Lt: Colo., 1. Major—15 Capts: 26 Lieu-Southamp- tenants, 11 Ensigns—Privates over 18 years of age 723—Ditto, under 18 ton Co' years, 71, total—Officers and Privates 850. MAJOR THOS: POSEY TO COL: WM. DAVIES. May 18th Dr. Col: The number of men which I have collected at this place, (in Staunton deserters & others) amount to twenty one. The draft for eighteen monthers, has not yet taken place, in any of these back Counties, neither can I inform you at what particular time it will. The people seem much aversed to it in Augusta & Rockbridge, but it don't amount to a majority I beleave. However, a considerable number met at the places apointed for laying of the Districts, & in a very bold & daring manner, seased the papers and destroyed them. I don't know where this may stop, if there is not a timeous check, in Hanging a few, for examples to the rest. The cloathing, I understand, the different Counties is providing, as fast as possible, but none as yet delivered to me— I have a deserter or two delivered to me every five or six days—I suppose I shall have a compy. of them in a short time to send down.
Page 108
108 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Do my Dr. friend let me heare from you by the first opportunity, for I May 19th dont know whether one of my letters (which has consisted of very neare one Doz) has reached you. I assure you I cant help making myself a little unhappy about it, though I know & am conscious of dis- charging every tittle of my duty agreable to my orders; but I under- stand the Baron is displeased on acct: of the Officers not making proper reports from the different Rendevous—His orders was to make my reports to you, which I have punctually done. Do pray let me have the pleasure of receiving a few lines from you, which will be much esteem'd by, Your Obt. Humble Servnt—" May 19th CAPT: THOs: W. EWELL TO COL: WM. DAViES at Point of Fork. Boiling's Rec'd his letter by Mr. Furguson last night—Two Canoes have already gone up with coal, and he will send more as soon as they can be got- ten. Made an effort to send the "Flatt laden with old arms" up, but not being able to get over the rocks, she had to return—Will attend promptly to orders. May 19th MAJ: RD: CLAIBORNE TO Gov: JEFFERSON, at Charlottesville. "Sir, Major Genl: Baron de Steuben has made a requisition for twelve Wagons, with teams, harness and drivers complete, to attend his detach- ment to the Southern Army. As it is totally out of my power to pro- cure them to go further than the verge of the State, I beg leave to ask your Excellency for advice and authority in the case. The only step which I could take of myflelf in the matter, would be to hire, but such an attempt would only be a loss of time, as I find few will come out to the assistance of the Army, without being forced— I have the honor to be with the higest respect &c &c" May 20th GEO: ROGERS CLARKE TO GENL: WASHINGTON—(Copy.) Fort Pitt "Reduced to the necessity of taking every step to carry my point the ensuing Campaign I hope your Excellency will excuse me in taking the Liberty of troubling you with this request. the Invasion in Virga. put it out of the power of the Governor to furnish me with the number of men propos'd for the enterprise to the West, but inform'd me he had obtained leave from the Baron Steuben, & agreable to your letters, for Colo. John Gibson & Regiment & Heth's Company to join my forces, an addition of men with them the militia we were disappointed of. On consulting
Page 109
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 109 Colo. Broadhead he could not conceive he was at Liberty to let them 1781. go, as your Instructions was pointed, respecting the stores & Troops to May 20th be furnish'd by him. from your Excellency's Letters to Colo. Broad- head I supposed him at Liberty to furnish what men he pleased. Con- vinced he did not think as I do, or otherwise he would have had no objections, as he appear'd to wish to give the Enterprise every aid in his power. The hopes of obtaining a Grant of these troops has induced me to address your Excellency myself, as it is too late to consult Gov- ernor Jefferson farther on the subject, wishing to set out on the Expedi- tion Early in June, as our Stores of Provisions is nearly compleat. If our force should be equal to the task propos'd I cannot conceive but that this post with every small Garrison even of Militia will be in any Danger, as it is attach'd to a popular Country, & During our time in the Enemies, McIntosh & Whellin will be useless, or might allso be Garrisoned by Small parties of Militia— These I know to be your Excellency's Ideas—If you should approve of the Troops in this Department Joining our forces, tho' they are few the acquisition may be attended with great and good Consequences, as two hundred only might turn the Scale in our favour— the advantages which must Derive to the States from bur proving successful is of such importance that I think Deserved greater prepara- tions to insure it. But I have not yet lost sight of Detroit. Nothing •, seem to threaten us but the want of men, but even should be able to cut our way through the Indians & find that they have no Reinforcements at Detroit, we may probably have the assurance to attackt it, tho' our force may be much less than propos'd, which Was two Thousand, as defeating the Indians with Inconsiderable loss on our Side would allmost ensure us Success—Should this be the case a valuable peace will probably ensue— But.on the contrary, if we fall through in our present plans & no expedition should take place, it is to be feared that the consequences will be fatal to the whole frontier, as every exertion will be made by the British party to Harrass them as much as possible—Disable them from giving any Succour-to our Eastern or Southern forces. The Indian war is now more General than ever. any attempt to appease them will be fruitless—Capt Randolph waits on your Excellency for an answer to this letter,—which I flatter myself you will honor me with Inftdiately— Col: Gibson who commands in the absence of Col: Broadhead will keep tho Troops in Readincss to move at an hours warning. Conducting myself as tho' this Request was Granted, Impatiently waiting for the happy order—" Yours &c—"
Page 110
HO CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJR. R. CLAIBORNE TO Gov: JEFFERSON, at Charlottesville. May 20th "Sir, Richmond The total disappointment which I have met with, in support from Philadelphia, obliges me to repeat to your Excellency, that my sole v-- dependence is upon the Treasury of this State, for money for the Quar- ter Masters Department. I can affirm to your Excellency, that economy has been used in expending what I have received, & that none has been disbursed, except in cases of the most necessary nature; but the public debts are increasing so fast. which demand paiment from me, that I am fearful of the consequences, shuld there not be some speedy supply of cash furnished to prevent them. The difficulty of getting money upon the warrants which I have received, has occasioncd me with all my Assistants, to run largely in debt on public account, by personal & pri- vate obligations, and have no hope for relief but from the resources of Government— We have absolutely remained without our pay, which we had a right upon every principle, to take monthly, rather than the service shuld be retarded, or the people not be compensated; but this seems to have answered little or no purpose, as we find daily that applications increase—Debts arc not only made in the department by-the persons engaged in it, but are heaped on, by impresses, which have been carried to an intolerable degree. Every one who furnishes a wagon, horse, or any thing else for Continental Service, and gets only a certificate for it calls on the Quarter Masters, who for want of means are obliged to evade the payments, and the person retires disappointed and discon- tented. The consequence is that all faith in the public Agents is lost & the citizen will do nothing without being compelled by military force. If impresses are to be established for the support of the Army, and nothing else is to be depended on, it had better be communicated to the Commanding General in the State, and let him have an impress Master appointed, and proper persons to aid him; but on the contrary, money must be advanced to pay off old debts and the hire as it becomes due, or we shall most undoubtedly fail. The public is by far the greatest loser unless it is determined the people shall not be paid for their prop- erty; for l*ng experience has taught me that not more than two thirds of the things that are procured in this manner, are returned to the owners, and because they have no public brand on them, they are lost— By frequent letters from my Assistants, they assure me the deprecia- tion increases so fast, and public credit is reduced so low, that it is a matter of doubt with them, whether the present currency in the. State will pass much longer, or that the people will trust either the public or individual, as there is no trade, and no way by which they can profit better than by realizing and keeping what they have now on hand by them—
Page 111
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. HI I can assure your Excellency. that for what is now due, and what is 1781. indispensably nccessajy to be procured immediately, either by hire or May 20th impress, five millions of Pounds is absolutely requisite; this would, I think, place us in a tolerable easy sphere, by enabling us to discharge our duties towards the Army, and quiet the minds of the People— Coloncl Hendricks, who is the Assistant Deputy Quarter Master at Alexandria, acquaints me that he can purchase in his district ton thou- sand yards of good Stuff' for tents if he had Tobacco—Will your Excel- lency be pleased to give me an order in favor of the Continent. on the Counties of Fairfax, Prince William. Stafford, King George or Spotsyl- nia, for as much Tobacco as will make the purchase? This is an article of such material consequence, that it would be a great loss not to pro- cure it— I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem and respect &c." May 21st David Ross, Coml. Agent orders the wagons that brought the Arms Pt. of Fork from Philadelphia, having delivered the same to the order of Baron Steuben, to proceed to this place, to receive return loads of Hemp; and those also, that brought clothing, to do likewise to receive hemp and Cordage for Philadelphia— COLO. JAMES CALLAWAY TO THE GOVERNOR. May 2lst He regrets to say, that instead of the "three hundred & eighty four Bedford Co. militia" requested to be sent to the aid of Genl: Greene, after the utmost endeavors ho could make, only "one hundred and thirty some' odd men" could be gotten—These have already marched—The busy season of the year, "among the Common People" outweighs any idea of the necessity of "turning out", unless the enemy is threatening them. He will endeavor to punish the delinquents—He has no idea how many he can send to Maj: Genl: Marquis Lafayette, and is doubtful if any consider- able number can be relied upon— CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: WM. DAVIES at Point of Fork. May 21st "Dr. Sir, I am much surprised and very uneasie that Mr. Anderson has . Richmond not had a supply of Coals—About the 15 or 16 instant I dispatch'd two Canoes from the Foundry with sixty bushels of Coales, to Point of Fork." ****** "We are in a fair way to remove the cannon ncar Hanover Court house—By virtue of your instructions to Capt: Roan, I advised him to
Page 112
112 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. take the carriages in contradiction of the Marquis' Orders. The Salt & May 21st Rum near Good Bridge is the property of the Continent & was removed from Petersburg on the Enemy's approach— * * * * * "I have lost my sorrel horse"— Tho people in this Country dont like people that they cant understand, so well as they used to do—I fear the Marquis may loose his credit— Deserters,—British—Cringing Dutchmen, & busy little Frenchmen swarm about Hd. Quarters—The People do not love French men; every person they cant understand they take for a French man—Our Army is in the neighborhood of this place—I dont understand the cause, of this move- ment. I am yr: most Obedt. hble. Servt. "Is it not a matter of estonish to you that no certain accounts can be had respecting Ld. Cornwallaco & the movements of the Army under his Commd—From my Soul I believe that 'tis matter of doubt with our Genls. whether Cornwallace is at Petersburg or Halifax—A little fellow by name Joell, & a deserter from the British with a full stock of impu- dence & with some little knowledge in drawing like Colo. Sonf, has pro- cured himself the Command of the first Troops in Brent's Corps—I don't know what they call them, perhaps waisters of the public 'stores— This Joell will have the rank of Major—I think the time will shortly come, when it will be disgraceful to rank above a Captain— Major Mitchell & the Officers taken at Petersburg are sent to New York. Every person, in future captivated by the British, will be sent to the West Indies—this we have from under Arnold's hand—I saw it"— H. Y" "Commissary Graves will be at the Point of Fork to regulate that department." May 21st THOMAS WARMAN TO COL: DAVIES. Albemarle Requesting instructions as to enlisting prisoners; some of whom Uo. have applied to him for that purpose— May 2lst G. WILSON, SURGEON TO GENL: HOSPITAL. Beaverdam Encloses to Col: Davies an Inventory of medical stores wanted; of Church. which he is totally destitute—The Vinegar, rice & molassas particularly needed—The Beef he gets, is "so very bad it affords little or no nourish- ment"—After examining the neighborhood of Goochland Court House, he has established the hospital at Beaverdam Church, a high and healthy place, where he thinks the sick will soon recover—
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 113
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. H3 W. NORTH, AID DE CAMP TO BARON STEUBEN, TO THE CONDUCTOR OF 1781. THE WAGON TRAIN. May 22d Ordering him to transport the Arms brought by him from Philadel- Pt. of Fork phia, to Albemarle Old Court House, with all possible dispatch. CAPT: WM. LEWIS TO CAPT: JAMES MAXWELL at Richmond. May22d The Vessels are in want of Powder, Match Rope, Cartridge paper and Renown, off Grape shot—, and have only onc day's provisions on hand—Wishes the Tur oy Governor would appoint a Commissary for the fleet—He finds it very difficult to keep his own crew; but how much more is this the case with those of the other vessels, especially as they have not had a.drop of spirits since they entered the service—Mrs. Reaves, he hears has rum for sale—Regrets to trouble him about these matters, but unless they are better supplied, all the men will leave. COL: ELIAS PASTON TO. THE COUNTY LIEUT: OF FREDERICK—"pr: May 22d Express." "Dear Sir, We are under the disagreeable necessity of troubling you for Hampshire your assistance immediately. I received an Express just now from the Commanding Officer of this County, for as many men as can be had, not at any Rate, less than three hundred from Frederick County. Col: Vanmotcr recommends that they who can, be mounted, may immedi- ately mount & come on & the Foot to follow as quick as Possible. Wo look upon it, that our lives & Fortuncs are in danger of being taken, we don't know bow soon—Yesterday the militia of this county march'd to Capt: Stumps; there made a halt, and sent a party of light Horse to see what Discoveries they could make about Jacob Brake's Mill on the South Fork. they were repuls'd by a fire & got off without any Loss, & brought with them two prisoners—they can't make any Discovery of the number of the Enemy. I understood by one Powel who came from Clapoles, on the Lost river (the Comander of the Tories) that he expected by last night to command onc thousand men—Col: Vanmeter, in his Express, has left the proceedings in a great measure to my judg- ment, & I think the only sure Remmedy to apply, would be to prevail upon Genl: Morgan to take a Tower amongst them, which seems to be their chief Resin—they are daily dareing him. The People of this County, who are our Friends, are so much connected, as well as related, that they are, on these accts very bacward to turn out, so that the wel- fare of our wives & children seems greatly to depend upon your Imme- 15
Page 114
U4 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. diatc Assistance. they threaten, if successful, to kill Men, Women & May 22d Children. I shall leave you to consider the deplorable situation of your Suffering Friends & Neighbours—" "N. B. Let the men be offieer'd & well arm'd." Capt: Bcall, the Bearer, has seen the Express & can inform you more particularly tho contents thereof—" May 23d DAVID Ross TO COL: Wn. DAViEs, at Albemarle Old Court House. Pt. of Fork A large quantity of valuable stores have been lost at Petersburg, through "tho villiany & carelessness of the waggoners. conductors •& quarter masters. Hopes the parties concerned will be brought ''to con- dign punishment." Benjamin Baker of Nanscmond particularly repre- hensible, in as much as he, according to agreement, was to have fur- nished to Mr. Crow, an officer and twelve men as a guard, but never sent a man—Col: Walker of Dinwiddie also refused to furnish Baird with a guard.—Asks where the Leather has been sent, as he desires tho Currier to come and dress it for use at once—The Baron will probably allow him to have many of the Continental Artificers, if applied to. May 23d CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: WM. DAVIES at Charlottesville. "Dr. Sir, Richmond My difficulties and misfortunes are without number; I have lost my Horses, I fear they will fall into the hands of the Enemy, and what is still worse, I fear John, my faithfull Servant will share the same fate. Capt: Roano has been once supplied with every thing necessary for the removal of the Cannon at Taylor's Ferry. his wants arc at this time nearly as great as at first—the Cannon are at or ncar the place they were at first—I fear they will be lost—Mr. Southall is at Charlottesvillo before this time. I shall set out for the Point of Fork, as soon as I can hear something of my Horses; in the mean time, I have given such directions about the Canoes as I thought best—One day I receive orders from ten persons, the ncxt day they are countermanded by twenty—I fear this regular confusion (if I may be allowed the expression) will end in our total ruin— Poore Majr. Goode—I speak of that good man, with heart felt compassion—Yesterday at noon, ho was surpris'd near Osbornc's—his party consisted of 150 men, thirty of whom are Prisoners, except three that were killed—Was it not my dear Sir, cruel to post so good a man in the neighborhood of the Encmy with a handfull of men, and not allow him a single videt for security—The Enemy were conducted by a villian that Colo. Goode had posted on the leading road from Peters Burg to his
Page 115
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. H5 encampment, by which means the Pickets were avoided, and the party 1781. attacked in rear and on each flank at the same instant. Do apologise May 23d for Colo. Goode—'tis hard ho should loose a well earn'd reputation— This day the enemy landed (and in fource) at Westover. a large detachment march'd downward from this place, late this evening—I wish the Marquis may not be premature in his movements. Ld. Corn- wallace has Join'd Arnold; he is a suttle fellow, and I fear will be too many for the Marquis—I am not a general, yet I think & fear there is danger that Cornwallace will get above the Marquis, if so the conse- quences are fatal— Brown is seldom hear. I have talked with his Assistant some time ago, and cautioned him to make his Issues in such a manner as to Justify a charge against the Continent—I will send up the Carpenters immedi- ately—The arrival of the Arms you mention, is a great thing—I wish those comeing on were hear & Genl: Wayne with them—I fear those Irish Villians have again mutined—I have this instant receiv'd a mes- sage from Capt: Roane by Let: Vallentine—I find Horses, Gears, and many other things are wanted for the removal of the Cannon, that I can't, in a short time, furnish. I have directed Capt: Roane to have the Cannon sunk in the River, and in such a manner as we may with ease, get them up again—I have directed 'that skidds be put under them to prevent their sinking in the Sand—I wish you may approve this step. it is the only one 'I cou'd devise to secure the Cannon, as Vallentine assured me it wou'd take three months to remove them to a place of security, provided they had every convenience— I am your unshaken friend." DAVID Ross TO GOVERNOR JEFFERSON. Albemarle. May 23d "Sir, I am just now favored with your Letter of the 21st. I expected Ft. of Fork the waggons would have come to this place, in consequence of what your Excellency mentioned to me, and the instructions which I had lodged at Fredericksburg for the waggoners—Orders had been given by the Baron to deliver the arms at the barracks, other orders to deliver them at the time, and lastly to deliver them at the old Courthouse. this latter Station he fixes upon, and has given orders accordingly for the arms to be carried there to-morrow—The cloathing and other stores I think had better be stored here, and I have directed the bearer to do so, unless you order it otherwise—I have engaged Mr. Richard Mathies to inspect, pack & prize the hemp in the several Counties, and to employ waggons, that it may be fowarded to Philadelphia immediately. The inspecting and prizing the hemp is very necessary, and can only be done by people of some experience in the business. Wherefore I think it will be best to load those waggons with the rope yarns & hemp which I
Page 116
116 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. saved from the Works at Warwick before the Enemy got there. 1 don't May 23d know but there is a sufft. quantity to load the whole of them with the hemp in this county.—if so it will be best not to interfere with the ope- rations of Mr. Mathies—I expect to engage all these waggons to return here again, with the other arms which are now ready. Iiiclosed I send you a short state of the case relative to the stores at Petersburg. This is a most provoking transaction, and I hope the sev- eral persons concerned in it will be punished for their conduct. I have this moment received your letter by Colo. Senf—I shall send to the most likely places for procuring saddles immediately, but am appre- hensive it will take some time to procure any considerable number of them. I do not know where Mr. Armstead has carried his stores—I wish some place was appointed, where things should be collected—I fear there are many things lost, and others much wanted, and not known that they are on hand. The Baron wants Blankets, and many other articles for the equipment of the ncw recruits. He also wants some stores for himself which he begs me procure for him—I hinted that your order should be obtained for them—he said he would give a warrant for the money, and seemed much hurt at my requiring any other security—his demands are mode- rate, and I believe it will be best to comply with them. I am Sir, With great respect, Your very humble Servant." May 23d Tohogania C. H. GENL: GEO: ROGERS CLARKE TO THE GOVERNOR OF VA. "Sir, A few days past I received dispatches from the Illinois, Kantuck &c of a late date. I am sorry to inform your Excellency that near 100,- 000 lbs. of Beef at the Kantucky is spoilt by the persons who Engag'd to procure it. About the same quantity on hand Excellent good, and 250 head of cattle promis'd by the inhabitants. The Indians have done considerable damage there. The Enclosed copies are all that is worth your notice from the Illinois, but what you already knew of by former letters from that country. You will see the measures that have been taken Respecting Shannon and Moore and the Issue. Colo. Broadhead would not agree to suffer Colo. Gibson's Regiment to go on the Expedition, as he said he could not answer for it. I have wrote to Genl: Washington in consequence as pr: Enclosed Copies. The Continental Officers & Soldiers of this Department to a man, is anxious for the Expedition suppos'd against the Indians. The Country in general wishing it to take place, but too few thinks of going, and so great a contrast between the people of the
Page 117
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. H7 two States in this Quarter that no Method can be taken to force them 1781. to war. We arc taking Every Step in our power to Raise volunteers. May 23d What number we shall git I cant as yet Guess. I doubt too few. The disappointment of seven hundred men from Berkeley & Hampshire I am afraid is too great a stroke to recover, as in fact the greatest part of this Country is in subordination neither to Pennsylvania or Virga. Gerl: Washington informs me that he had received information that Col: Con- nelly had left New Nork with a design to make a diversion in the Coun- tries to be reinforced by Sir: John Johnson in Kanady. I doubt Sr. we shall as usual be obliged to play a desparate game this Campaign. If we had the 2000 men first propos'd, such Intelligence would give me pleasure. The greatest part of our stores have come to hand, the Remainder I shortly expect. By the greatest Exertions and your timely supplies of money we have the boats and provisions Expected in this Quarter nearly compleat. I propose to leave this about the 15lh of June, if we can Imbody a sufficient number of men by that time. I do not yet despair of seeing the propos'd object on tolerable terms, although our circumstances is Rather gloomy. Colo. Crockett and Regt. ariy'd a few days past. who Informed me that a Company or two Volunteers might be expected from Frederick & Berkley—I am sorry we are so cir- cumstanced as to be glad to Receive them. I have the Honr. to be with great Esteem Your Devoted Servt—" J. MAURY TO DAVID Ross AT POINT op FORK, by Mr. F. Maury. May 24th "Dear Sir, Not having been able to procure the money, Horse or Servant Richmond for my Journey to Hampton, I am still here. General Cornwallis too, in the Interim, having reached Petersburg, I am anxious of making another application for my Vessell. It occurring to me also, that every obstacle to negociating for the permission of sending Tobaccoe to our prisoners, being now removed, the Governor would willingly endeavor to have it effected hero, by which, much time, much trouble & much Expence would be saved—No misunderstanding as yet, between the opposite Commanders— The Marquis sent in a Flag, the day before yesterday, with a passport from Congress for the Vessell loaded with necessaries for the Convention Troops—Which Flag Lord Cornwallis admitted, notwithstanding it so soon followed after the affronts received by his predecessor. We have now some Tobaccoe &some Vessells, which we can call our own—If you
Page 118
118 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. think as I do, pray urge these considerations with his Excellency & send May 24th the Bearer, my Brother, with your Dispatches to him." * * "I refer you to my hrother for the news— I am with much regard, Dr Sir Yr: very humble Servant" May 24th Albomarle Barracks GEO: RICE TO COL: DAVIES at Charlottesville. The Counties of Rockbridge, Rockingham, Shenandoah, and Albe- murle have delivered their wagons and Teams to him at this place. and he had, by order of Major Claborne, sent them to Richmond, some time ago—Culpeper County sent its wagon to Frederickaburg—Greenbrier, Amherst. Orange, Kluvanna and Augusta so far as he knows, have made no delivery—The arms referred to, by Colo. Taylor, were ncver received by him, but were taken in charge by the Regimental Quarter Master. May 26th Hanover Town J. NELSON. MAJOR VA. L. DRAGOONS, TO Gov. JEFFERSON. "Sir, The reduced situation of my Corps, has induced the Marquis to order me to this Place, for the purpose of recruiting the Horses & geting equiped as fast as possible: to expedite which Capt: Read will wait upon your Excellency with a state of our wants, to obtain orders for what is necessary. When I had the honor to see your Excellency at Wilton, you told me I should be furnished with what I wanted; to prevent Loss of Time upon this occasion, I made application to Mr. Ross in Rich- mond, who furnished me with two Hundred prs. of Over alls & one Hun- dred Stable Waistcoats of Light Canvis, upon a promise from me to obtain an Order from you for them; he has also sent out Agents to pro- cure Boots, Sp.urs & Curry Combs for us. As to our Saddles & Bridles, they were never good for Any thing— tho' I shall have as many fitted up as possible, but it will be better to have a ncw Set made complete, as what we have, with all tho Repairs we can give them, will not last long; & to let you know the true situa- tion of tho Horses, they were never fit for Dragoons & are so much worn down with hard service, that I should despair of geting many of them in Order in Six Months, & when in the best Plight, they are only fit for Express & Waggon Horses—The Marquis has ordered some to be purchased on Contincntal Acct"— * * *' * Capt: Read has not been able to purchase a single horse at the price he was limited to."—They have become so scarce, that they are not to be had under a great price; indeed it is not a Time to think of what a Horse costs, when the Encmy are outnumbering us so much in Cavalry.
Page 119
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 119 If your Excellency thinks proper to have the Homos purchased, & will send me cither money or Instructions to get them, I will soon do it, as no onc is so much interested in geting good oncs as myself, & there is a saving to the Country in every Horse purchased by an Officer, as Indi- viduals expect to be paid for their Trouble. The Behaviour of Capt: Fearer, in absenting himself so long from service, without Leave, has determined all the Officers, ncver to serve with him—I must request therefore, that you will be pleased to send Lieut: Armstead a Captain's Commission & at the same time a Blank Cornet's Commission for a very deserving young man." * * * * "I have writ to the Assembly for Per- mission to recruit one Hundred Infantry to be joined to my Corps, <fc hope to have the Assistance of his Excellency, as I have it much at Heart to take the Field with a Corps that may render some service.—" ***** With great respect & esteem, I have the Honor to be, Sir, Yr: most obt. hble. Servant—" "P. S.—Since writing, I have been informed by the Officers that they will not draw their pay at forty for one—as the Quarter Masters & others have been paid at Eighty for one & some oven higher." 1781. May 26th Benj: Clark of Lunonburg Co. and John Clark of Carolinc Co. bailed May 26th in the penalty of the payment of Twenty Thousand pounds of Tobacco, Richmond to appear before the Executive Council of Virginia, when called on, &c &c. DAVID Ross TO COL: DAVIES at Albemarlo Old Court House. May 26th Writes to inform him, Capt: Peyton can be furnished with leather, Pt. of Fork and that he sends off Mr. Burton for the shoe thread—The French Can- vas of which he has a large supply, and which ho thought would suit for ''Frocks" proves too thick"—Recommends, in view of the great scarcity of goods, that it be made into "short coats" lor the men; he has some "blue frize" which will do for facings—Concludes "Tarlton surprised the Chesterfield Militia on the 23d & took a number of them. some reports say 200, & others about half that number—Colo. Goode is not taken"— CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO COL: DAVIES, Charlottesville. May 26th In accordance with his orders, sends up his Marquee; presented the Albemarle order to Capt: Russell for the thin duck to mend it, which he refused to ^'^ ^ **•
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 120
120 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. deliver without the Baron's Order—Tho latter arrived here yesterday May 26th and is much displeased with the situation, and has sent Capts: Fenly and Kirkpatrick to reconnoitre a place eight miles up the river where ho intends moving the Troops, if they report favorably—Desires to know whether he is to move with the Troops, as he is getting tired of that employment," and is anxious to be settled where ho can get to work. May 26th CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: WM. DAVIES at Charlottcsville. "Dr. Sir, Mr. Boiling's I left Richmond the evening before the last—Our army was then in motion; and intended to take post on the hights beyond Win- ston's bridge—11, miles above Richmond. I am totally ignorant with respect to the movements of the Enemy and I wish it may not be the case at Hd. Quarters—I have herd that the Enemy march'd into Richmond yesterday; whether Horse or foot, I can't learn, but I suppose Horse—as I have also understood that Corn- wallace has taken a right hand road near Westover, that leads by Han- over Courthouse. I think the militia. are as much intimidated as ever I saw a routed army. Should the Marquis even attempt to skirmish with the Encmy we are ruined, as their superiority in Cavalry will consequently fource him to a general action—I think it may be depended upon, that Rodden (Rawden) has evacuated Camden—Lee & Sumpter are in his front & G. Greene in his rear—people are very sanguine, and suppose 'tis impossible that Rodden can make good his Retreat. We have a great deal of Uropean intelligence—you will judge of its authenticity—Ld. G. Gordon is at the head of a Rcbble Army in Scotland—GenI: Clinton has evacuated New York & has orders to repair to Scotland with his army, to oppose the rebbles there. Gibraltar has fallen; this acct. comes by a Letter to Mr. Cooper from his correspt. either in Europe or the West Indies—I shall be at the Point of Fork this evening, where I shall remain until the stores are remov'd from thence—I shall be glad of your advice in the fulest manner relative to the stores, & whether you do not think it will be advisable that Anderson, with his men remain at the Point as long as possible, as arms are much wanted, and as his removal will put it out of his power to render any service for a considerable time—A few canoes may be kept at the Point to take off Mr. Anderson's Tools & the Arms that will be kept to repair." * * * "I found my horse in King-William, and the fellow who had him refused to give him up—I wish I was Dictator for 1. day, I would pro- scribe every person in the State of suspicious caracter—I am not a rash man, but should my horse fall into the hands of the Enemy by means of his being detained by that villian, if God spares me, I will assassinate
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 121
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 121 him, if I can't satisfaction by law, which I don't expect. Colo. Bland 1781. is and shall be our next Governor, let the Assembly know my determi- May 26th nation. I am my Dr. Sir, your steady frd. & Scrvt-r-" David Ross sends to Col: Davies, at Albemarle Old C. House, a speci- May 26th men canvas coat; which he thinks will do very well for the troops but Pt. of Fork thinks "the make of it may be improved upon." DAVID Ross TO THE GOVERNOR at Charlottesville. He encloses tho letter from Mr. James Maury by the bearer his May 26th brother, for his Excellency's perusal—Every thing nccessary for his Pt. of Fork embarking has been furnished him, and ho will sail from the Eastern Shore, if there is any trouble about his getting off from Hampton—ho has received £10,000 to pay his expences and lay in provisions for tho voyage— A letter from tho Marquis requires his going at onco to Richmond, but ho will return in two days—Tho greatest part of tho Powder belong- ing to the State is now at Point of Fork under Guard of Seven men— Mr. Anderson can now repair about one hundred muskets a week, but in a few days, this number will be increased to one hundred and fifty. MAJOR JOHN PRVOR, C. GENL: MIL- STORES—TO COL: DAVIES. May 26th After making proper appointments of Field Commissaries of Mil: Col. Cabell'i Stores in the Marquis Army, and leaving Mr. Smith his Deputy at Rich- mond, he set out with a Field Comy: of Mil: Stores for Genl: Greene's Army, by way of Point of Fork, and tho Old Court House to Prince Edward, in order to prepare a supply of Ammunition &c to be taken to Genl: Greene by the Comy: of Mil: Stores; and to have tho Laboratory & Magazine at that place, removed, for fear of tho Enemy's partizan corps, there being no force in that quarter to resist them. He has fre- quently ordered Mr. Porter to remove the stores in his charge at Car- ter's Ferry to Point of Fork, but it had not been done, and he found at "the Old Co. House .some ammunition he had directed him to send down immediately to the Army. Tho Continental and State Military Stores are so mixed that it is impossible to discriminate between them, but upon his return, he will suggest measures to have them seperated and collected at fewer points, in charge of a requisite number of Officers. 16
Page 122
122 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. WM. CONSTABLE, AID DE CAMP TO LAFAYETTE, TO Gov: JEFFERSON. May 26th ..^ S^ Richmond The returns of the men coming from the different Counties, I have not yett been able to obtain. as soon as they are made out, I shall have the honor of inclosing them. By Genl: Lawson's letter herewith sent, your Excellency will learn the small progress he has made:" * * * "Baron de Steuben informs me that only two men had been employed in repairing the damaged Arms. No doubt this matter, on being repre- sented by the Baron has been enquired into, and every man sett to work, who cou'd possibly be procured. The Times of the Militia expires daily, and they arc discharged, but • very few come in to supply their place—one Company of Riflomon only have arriv'd, tho' they might be very usefully employed. Very few Horses have been impressed—I hope your Excellency, and the Councill will give some Orders on this head. Capt: Davenport who just now returns from Amelia & Brunswick, assures me that by impressing every fourth Horse, we shou'd be able to raise 200 is those Counties—Wo are in the utmost want of Cavalry, tho Enemy's great superiority in Horse, giving them such advantage over us, that they have it almost in their power to over run the County, in spight of all our efforts— You will observe by Colo. White's memo. inclosed, that there are 50 of tho 1st Rogt. at Staunton. Cou'd we mount those and Nelson's Corps, who are at Hanover, getting Cloathing made up, it wou'd be a great acquisition; as our whole force in Cavalry at present is about 60, and tho Enemy have 500 Horse—tho mounted militia arc all gone home, except Capt: Royall whoso time is out next thursday—notwithstanding positive orders to the contrary, they have carried of their Accoutre- ments, which has incapacitated us from mounting others." * * * * * * "Lord Cornwallis arrived at Petersbo. the 20th—the 23d Col: Tarleton, with 300 Horse of his Legion, profiting by the very heavy rain, which rendered the Centinells' arms unfitt to fire, and hav- ing intercepted tho Videtts, surprised a party of militia in Chesterfield, about 2 miles, S. W. of Col: Cary's Mill—they killed six, and took about 40 Prisoners—24th, the British evacuated Petersbo. and destroyed tho Bridge they had constructed on Appomattox. they marched to Maycox, and crossed about 1000 Men, that Evening to Westover—the next day, they were employed in crossing the rest of their Army—Same night were sent off our Stores & Baggage. Had Genl: Waync joined me (who writes 20th from York town that ho would march the 23d) I should certainly have disputed the heights of Richmond, with them, but in my present situation, I dare hardly risk the smallest matter. our opposition must be only such as will check Ld, Cornwallis, without
Page 123
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 123 giving him an opty. of ingaging us further than We wish, or than pru- 1781. dence will justify—Mr. Day, A. Q. M. at Wmsburg writes, informing of May 26th a Fleet having passed Jae: Town, the 22d, but of this your .Excellency will have the fullest intelligence from Mr. Travers, who view'd them himself— The Marquis sett off at noon, to reconnoitre Brook's Bridge—as He has sent in Orders to move on the Troops to that place, I take the lib- erty of sending your Excy. this rough Copy, as it may afford some little intelligence—the Inclosures mention'd are not to be come at—We learn from Phila. and from Gnl: Waye's letter, that 10 Sail of the line and 3000 Troops sailed from Sandy Hook about the 13th—Genl: Sumner writes, that report says Ld. Rawden evacuated Camdeti." I have the Honor to be with the Highest respect your Excy's most Hble Servt— COL: FBA: TAYLOR TO Gov: JEFFERSON, in Albemarle Co. May 26th He had written on the 16th inst: in regard to the Board of Officers, Winchester ordered by Colo. Wood, to act upon the case of the State guards. These are now all discharged, and only a small body of militia are now on duty at the Barracks near that place. A very few men and all the officers of the State Regiment, remain at Winchester, who should be at once discharged—The arms of the men were sent to Albemarle Barracks by order of Capt: Porter; but one hundred and sixty stand are left, one hundred & forty of which, he has allowed the County Lieutenant of Fred- erick to take, to arm some of the Militia who are to march against a body of Tories in Hampshire; to be returned when the expedition is ended— He will send a return of clothing drawn by the men as soon as possi- ble—Col: Wood has gone to Maryland, and will probably not return before the arrival of an Express, sent by him to Congress— DAVID Ross TO COL: WM. DAVIES. May 27th He thinks a large part of the powder at this place should be removed, pt. of Fork at once, as the risk is too great to have so much at one point "in an insufficient house & only a guard of seven men"—The Quarter Master is collecting canoes and wagons, and application is made to the neighbor- ing Counties for all the aid they can furnish— Mr. Price & Capt: Davenport are entrusted with the duty of taking off the powder, with strict injunctions as to caution and care—
Page 124
124 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Mr. Dyer will furnish an account of the ready made clothing &c—The May 27th cloth coats issued to the soldiers will all be worn out before the fall or lost—He gave out the day before Canvass enough to make a short coat "for a tryal, with some blue frize to face it"—Had it boiled in lye and washed to soften and shrink it, before being made up—it will be too thick for the Season, but more agreable than woolen cloth—A supply of leather can be had here, and shoe thread from the hack Country—has ordered plank to be gotten to box up what may be left in the Public Store—and the spirits "to be filled up; there has been great abuses in this article"—Continues "If you think the middle Country cannot be defended, 'tis highly proper to have the Stores removed beyond the Mountains—I have recommended to your people here to make their movements with as little noise, & all the discretion in their power—the people at present are really panic struck, and have lost much of their military ardor—I need not tell you the force of imagination; if an idea goes abroad that we are not able to oppose the British, it will have an unhappy effect. indeed this seems too much the case already. My brother writes to me from Bedford, that a pretty general consternation has seized the people there—I have expected the waggons that brought the arms & other articles from Philadelphia to have been here 10 days ago, in order to have carried off the Cordage at Harris's barn to Phila- delphia—by their repeatedly stopping the Canoes & employing them otherwise, I have been prevented from geting it brought here—I expect it will soon be lost—Pray send these waggons off immediately to this place if they have not already started.—the contradictory orders which they have received has distracted &*detained them exceedingly— I am sent for to Richmond, by the Marquis, & cannot go, til these waggons comes—I shall write you the news on my return— I am Sir, Your most obt." May 27th STEPHEN SOUTHALL, A. Q. MASTER—TO COL: WM. DAVIEs at Alb: Old Co. House. "Dear Colo: * * * * * Charlottes- "I think as you with respect to the danger of our Stores at the Point v of Fork, and other places below that, and wrote Mr. Price, on this sub- ject, desiring his immediate attention to the removal of them up the river as far as Bent. Henderson's*—I have wrote up to a certain McDon- noff, who lives 20 miles distant from this place, at the foot of the Moun- tain, but have not received his answer as yet—however when the stores comes I shall go up myself and procure good Quarters for them— * Six miles South West of Charlottesville.
Page 125
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 126 Agreable to your letter I did myself the pleasure to wait on Mr. Pat- 1781. teson, but he not being at home (I opened the letter directed to him) May 27th therefore cou'd not go by his advice, but am sorry that my long Expe- rience in life has taught me no Wisdom with respect to my duty— I amediately turned out on the arrival of your letter, tho' I had used every exertion in my power to procure Waggons, by writing to the principal men in the County, for their aid, & to Mr. Key the Commn., whose answer I have not received. I however made out to procure three Waggons without the assistance of Mr. Putteson, and shall imme- diately have them loaded, with orders to wait on you, for further Orders—I have it in thought to order them from the Court house, to the Point of Fork, to bring their loads to this place, therefore be pleased to Order what will be most adviseable to be brought. I think Powder, as they have two good Covers—I think the arms might be tho last article brought up, as Mr. Anderson will be Idle in this case—there being a number of valuable stores at Goochland Ceurt house, 1 yester- day dispatched six waggons, with orders to bring them up to this place, as they were tho lowest down I thought it most desirable to send for them first"— ***** ***** "I am entirely at a loss how to procure the means of transportation from Henderson's to the Mountain, being entirely unacquainted with Country or people—however I am agoing to a meeting I understand is to be above here to day, when I mean to make your Exemption known— rely on my best endeavours to promote the publick good—I wish we had a Commissary of Military Stores, that they might do their own business. I have sent Wyatt to have tho waggons loaded. 1 am, Dr. Colo., with great regard, Yr: very Hub. Servant." Capt: Thos: W. Ewell, informs Col: Davies, his delay was due to the May 27th Canoes not coming—To morrow all tho stores will be gone from this Boiling's place—The leather has beon at the Point of Fork some time, and tho Landing Rum was up tho River before he left—Every care shall be taken not to waste the powder. SAMUEL PATTESON TO COL: DAVIES, at Albemarlo Old Co. House. May 27th "Sir, Agreeable to your Instructions, I have sent on four hundred Stand of Hendersons Arms. the waggon that brought your Marque to Col: Lewis went off, before I received your letter which was this morning. Carver lost two
Page 126
126 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. of his horeses last night; however Mr. Southall procured waggons for May 27th the purpose—Your Marquee I have paid particular attention to." * * "There are no boxes to be had, to put the arms in: I hope but little injury will result from their being sent loose, as we have been as careful as possible in stowing them. fryday I sent an express to point of fork, requesting (as you directed me) that all the superfluous Stores should be sent here. he arrived there that night, and returned to Mr. Lewis' yesterday afternoon. I every moment expect a fleet of canoes— Yesterday I met his Excellency in the road, he gave me a letter which with two more, I have enclosed—I informed him the Stores were coming to Henderson's, and I think his words were these following, "the Council have passed a resolution that all the Stores should be sent up the great river, and I would wish you should not have more than one loaxl brought to Henderson's, before I can confer with Colo. Davies on the Subject—Canoes and Batteaux will be much less expencc to the publick than waggons, and it is my opinion, at all events that there should not be a sufficiency of Stores at Henderson's to draw the Enemy's attention, for it will be impossible to procure wagons to move them off." Would his Excellency's magnificent building be illuminated, if the Enemy should come. Mr. Andrew Moore from Rockbridge says those mutinyous rascals in Augusta and Kockbridge amount to a majority, a great majority in Augusta! there are but few waggons in this County,'and the demand I expect will be very great—I know of my own knowledge, there is the greatest plenty the other side of the Mountains; except you have an impress warrant procured, and give positive orders on the subject, I fear we shall be in a bad situation with respect to our stores, without you follow the Council plan. If you have not wrote to Point of fork, when the Canoe men arrive I shall direct them after unloaded, to go down, load and wait for your orders which river to take— I am, good Colo. with sentiments of the highest respect your most obt. and most hble. Servant— "I have found my horse, half dead, tender footed and sore backed"— May 28th MAJOR CHAS: MAGILL TO COL: DAVIES at Charlottesville. Winchester In reply to his, requiring a "Return" of the wagons received by Con- tinental Qr. Masters—From his District composed of Frederick, Berkely and Hampshire Cos: he has received two, neither of which would he receipt for, being unfit for service, and Frederick Co: has "levyed a sum to purchase a waggon," but owing to the rapid depreciation of the cur- rency, has not furnished it.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 127
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 127 RICHD. & Me. KENNEY TO MR. JONATHAN DENISON, MERCHT. E. SHORE. 1781. May 28th Sending by Schooner Nightingale six barrels of flour, "five cxcedg. Frcderic'sb'g good" which cost "100£ & Cask 75 Doll:"—to be disposed of either in sugar salt, or dry-goods—They are "so much alarmed with apprehensions of the Enemy Every hour" that they "only catch a moment to give these few lines," and arc hurrying off all their goods and effects. DAVID Ross TO THE GOVERNOR. May 28th Informing him, bis Agent in Philadelphia up to date had furnished Pt. of Fork two thousand Stand of Arms—The whole number, in addition to those Mr. Anderson can repair, "over and above what the Baron has taken for his men," may be estimated at four thousand stand -more than are in the hands of the people at this time, so that he thinks there will be no scarcity in future. Concludes—"Neither our Delegates in Congress, nor the Generosity of our Northern friends have as yet given any assistance to my agent—The repairs of the arms, the purchase of Bayonets & the advance of Specie to the Waggoners has been done by loans from pri- vate people. The bearer, Mr. Maury will give you the news—he thinks there is a fair prospect now, of negotiating matters with Lord Corn- wallis, for Sending Tobacco to Chas-town—ho wishes to be sent in with a Flag, on this business." ANTHONY TO JONATHAN DENISON. May 28th Expressing regret he had not purchased Salt on the Eastern Shore—Mr. Falmouth Johnston's Salt and other goods brought thoro, were had on good terms— He now sends five barrels of flour and five Hhds: Tobacco, which he begs ho will not dispose of, except for goods and Salt—Can't get too much of the latter. Will not risk his Tobacco for cash—does not want it—Tobao. worth "from 95 to 100£—flour £120, & both scarce"—The enemy expected every day— Wm. Price informs Col: Davies, that, in the absence of Mr. Redwood, May 28th ordered to superintend the receiving the stores at Bennet Hendersons, Pt. of Fork- he had sent up Mr. Ilowell Lewis for this purpose; he being recom- mended by Mr. Ross, as a man to be depended on—Two hundred and fifty-seven barrels of powder have been sent up to-day, and more will go in the Evening—Every exertion in his power shall be made to carry out his orders—
Page 128
128 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. RESOLUTIONS, advising the Executive to issue Warrant to the "Hon May 28th Major Gnl: M. de Lafayette," authorizing him to impress such horses as he may need for the use of the Army, in the Counties contiguous to the march of the Enemy— Monday House of Horses to be valued by two Field Officers; & to be paid for in Specie, Delegates Or its CqUivaient—Impress warrants to be issued to Commissioncd Offi- cers only; to be produced when the impress is made— "Stud Horses", and those actually employed in moving families and their effects not to be taken—The Marquis required to make exact returns to the Auditor of the State, of the names of the owncrs, the value of each Horse, and the uses to which appropriated; together with certificates to the owners, expressing these facts— Countersigned. "By an amendment. brood mares are not to be impressed unless the owncr fails on reasonable notice, to remove them out of the way of the enemy, in which case Stud horses are also to bo subject to impress." TH: J" May 29th S. DYER TO COL: DAVIES at Albemarle Old Co. House. Ft. of Fork Giving inventory of Stores in his possession—The remainder have come from Boiling's but several of the packages of dry-goods are much abused—thirteen ready made coats & ten pairs buckskin breeches miss- ing from the boxes—The stores cannot be properly removed unless be is furnished with workmen to make proper "packages to secure them." May 29ih Col Andrew Donnally informs the Governor, be has held a Court Mar- Grcenbrier tial to enquire into the delinquences in the Militia, but very few have V°' failed to perform their "Term of Duty." Requests instructions as to sending down those ordered, as no one will undertake it under the pres- ent terms— May 29th Martin Cockburn and Richard Chichester, Conimr: of Specif: Tax, Fairfax Co. report in part upon the Amount collected in that County last Spring— The Wheat, Rye & Oats, and three thousand four hundred and ninety seven bushels of corn, they have delivered to Mr. James Lawrason of Alexandria—The remainder, one hundred and seventy-one Bushels was given out to the Troops under the Marquis de la Fayette, when they passed through Colehester—
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 129
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 129 LT: COLO. CHAS: DABNEY TO COL: WM. DAVIES. 1781. "Dear Col: May 30th We are now under marching orders to Cross the North fork Camp near of Pamunkey River, the route leading to Fredericksburg. The enemy Anderson's from the last accounts are at New Castlo and Page's Warehouse. The Warehouses at both places they have burnt. About one hundred and fifty of their Light Horse advanced twenty miles from Page's yesterday; they took two of our light Horse men prisoners, and several of the inhabitants—I believe it is the Marquis' intention to avoid an action 'till Genl: Waine joins us, whose arrival is Dayly expected—" * * ***** I am Dr. Sir, Yr: Obed: Scrvt." WM. GRAYSON TO Gov: JEFFERSON OF VA. May 30th "Sir, The board do themselves the honor to transmit to you a resolution War Office, of Congress of the 23d instant, also a resolution of the 11th of April philadelPhia last; by which you will discover that they depend upon the arrears of Specific supplies for the last Campaign, which have not yet been fur- nished by the different States, to make good their engagements with the Court of Franco— As the honor and faith of the United States is so materially concerned, there is every reason to expect the most decided exertions in the States, to enable Congress to comply with their contracts. The board request you will be pleased to acquaint them with your expectations on this head, and what they may probably depend on. I have the honor to be with the highest respect, Sir, Yr: most obedt. & very hble Servnt." JNO: WALKER TO THE GOVERNOR. May 30th Enquiring in what manner the horses to be impressed for public Ser- Belveir* vice, are to be equiped with Saddles, bridles, Harness &c—Unless this be done, they will be useless—Asks for news from below—Will set out for Camp, as soon as his horses are fit to take the road— * Family Seat of the Nelsons, about seventeen miles Bast of Charlottesville. 17
Page 130
130 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. .1 AMK.S HUNTER TO Gov: JEFFERSON, at Charlottesville. May 30th "Sir, Stafford Uo. I have but just time to acknowledge rect. of Yr: Excelly's Favor of the 28th inst:, as Tarlton with 500 Horse, is reported to have been at Hanover Court yesterday, & last night within five miles of Bowling Green, on his way to destroy my Works—If that be true (Fredericksburg is thereby nearly deserted) he may do the mischeif to night—A Troop of Colo. Nelson's Horse just now crossed the Ferry, it's said, on their way back to recruit their Horses. I have long ago informed the Officers, in every department, that there was no Sword Cutler, or other Artificer at my Works, that cou'd make the Swords, & unless they are returned on furlough from the Army, shou'd the works remain, it will be impossible to furnish them, or many other military stores on hand for the Southern & this Army, much retarded by the hands being taken from me. At present I am removing my Tools, & a total stoppage to everything. I am, wth. the utmost respect Yr. Excellency's most obt & obliged Servt." May 30th MAJ: Ro: CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES at Albemarle Old C. House. Capt. Hen- Having only gotten up to his Office yesterday, it has not been in his miies's^of power to answer his letters; having beon pressed with business at Rich- Charlottes- mond for the Army, until the 27th inst:—The confused situation of the ville assistants & their affairs will require much time to collect and furnish returns of the wagons to be supplied by the different Counties—It will be done as soon as practicable— DAVID Ross TO COL: DAVIES. May 30th About the 20th last month he was informed that all the public Pt. of Fork Artificers in Richmond were ordered and were actually on their way to this place—Being himself obliged to go to Richmond, not a white man would have been left on his estate; and no one to provide for the recep- tion, feeding and quartering these men, (whose services were then exceedingly valuable,) until a Commissary should be appointed—Under these circumstances, he had taken the liberty of detaining John Wil- merton & James Liddle two reliable men of the Gooehland Militia for this purpose, and to act as guard &c—He had stated these facts to Col: Morris, their Commdg: Officer, & to Capt: Richardson—He is astonished now to hear that these two men are by the Court Martial put upon the same footing with those who wilfully refuse to serve the Country. Although, by his authority they have been doing essential service—He trusts their case will meet with favorable consideration— i
Page 131
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 131 COL: JOHN GIBSON COMDT. AT FORT PITT, TO Gov: JEFFERSON. 1781. «Sir May 30th This will be delivered to your Excellency by Ens. Tannehill, Pay- Fort Pitt master to the 7th Virga. Regt., whom I have sent Express to Richmond in order to procure the 4 months pay allowed by the Hon: the Assem- bly of Virga. towards the Depreciation of their former pay, &c—I hope when your Excellency is Assured that they have not received a single shilling for these twenty months past, you will interest yourself in their Behalf &c— * * * * * Inclosed is also my Acct: Expenses in fowarding the Powder from Carlisle to this place for Genl: Clarke &c. * * * Genl: Clarke will write your Excellency by this opportunity, and I make no doubt give you every information relative to the intended Expedition—I am much afraid he will not be able to get many of the militia from this quarter, as I have just heard that three hundred men from the Counties of Monongahela and Ohio, have crossed the Ohio at Wheeling, and are gone to cut of the Moravian Indian towns; if so they will hardly turn out on their return—Indeed it appears to me they have done this, in order to evade going with Genl: Clarke—the Moravians have always given the most convincing proofs of their attachment to the Cause of America, by always giving in Intelligence of every party that came against the frontiers; and on the late expedition, they fur- nished Colo. Broadhead and his party with a large quantity of provi- sions when they were starving—For the news of this post, permit me to refer Your Excellency to the Bearer Ens. Tannehill— I have the honour to be Your Excellency's most obedient Humble Servt., JNO: GIBSON Colo. Comd. F. Pitt— CAPT: SAML: JONES TO CAPT: H. YOUNG. May 31st Sir, From information just received, I greatly feared that Mr. Moody has Pt. of Fork acted very indiscreetly while in service of the State—It appears that Blanketts & Cloathing drawn by him for the Artificers and State Negroes under his care, are now offered for sale by a Miss of his at or near ground Squirrel bridge. Farther it is reported that a Qty of Salt & provisions earned to the Misconduct same place for security is in the same situation—It is certain, that sev- ^°° ^e 1|tj. eral negroes belonging to the State are now employ'd by his Miss; and in service of whether he has hired them of the State or not, is a doubt with many. the State> &c Tools of various kinds are now in the hands of Mr. Moody, which the Artificers assert are the property of the State—Add to these a general
Page 132
132 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. complaint of the Artificers, that they have not received their pay, a May 3lst great part (if not the whole) of which must certainly have been depos- ited in his hands—(Whether these complainst are justly founded I know not)—Tell me my friend, is it possible that this man could act such a scene of Viliany and have no person to examine his proceedings? Or has he acted with propriety 'till this last grand Opportunity to Secrete public property—.Let his conduct be good or bad, is it not adviseable, not only to call on him to adjust his accompts, but to give up those articles in his possession, that are supposed to be State property, 'till it can be ascertain'd whether he makes a just claim to them—I have stated these Hints as I rec'd them—You will take them into considera- tion and determine what is best to be done—Colo. Davies will hand you this, and inform you the alteration of our rout in removing the Stores— I have only to add my desire of receiving your instructions as fre- quent as possible— And am with respect & esteem Your Most Hble Servt. Capt: H. Young— May 31st V. BROOKING Co: LIEUT: TO Gov: JEFFERSON at Charlottesville. "Sir, Amelia Co. "I was unfortunately taken by a Party of British Light Horse, the 14th Inst: and restricted to the Town of Blandford for ten Days, then was to return home on Parole, which I thought more eligible, than to be committed to close confinemt.—As I was acting under your Order of the 8th Inst: to embody & arm the militia, I think myself justifiable in signing the Parole, and expect not to be considered as an acting Offi- cer of Militia untill exchanged, or my Parole shall be altered— I am, Sr. your most obedt. Servant." May 3lst CAPT: ARCH: LIND TO COL: DAVIES. "Dear Col, Albemarle Doctor Monro, when he march'd with the Troops under Col: Old C. H. Gasijin9 icft with me (By what rule of propriety I leave you to judge) twenty five sick, two thirds of them very bad cases,—without the least means in my power to alleviate their distresses—Some of them without Blankets—they are stoored in two very bad negro Quarters—I have wrote to Doctor Gillmore on the Subject, desiring him to take into his care the aforesaid miserable beings—which I shall send to him in three
Page 133
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 133 or four days—I understand he has no right to receive Continental 1781. Troops—I hope you'l point out to him, the Humanity and necessity May 31st that there is for receiving these—I have no wafers nor Candle, there- fore excuse the letter being unsealed— I am Dr. Colo., with the greatest regard & respect Your Most Obe. Servnt." STEPHEN SOUTHALL ASST: Q. MASTER—TO COL: DAVIES at P. of Fork. May 31st "Dear Colonel, 1 wrote you four days ago pr: the Capt: who came up Charlottes- for the Guns, my situation and my prospect in geting of a house at the Foot of the mountain. I also furnished him with a sufficient number of waggons the next morning to transport the whole of his stores to the Court House—from thence I ordered the waggons to the Point of Fork and bring their loads up from there—I have since sent down four waggons more with letter to Mr. Price to load them and send Invoices of each Load—I did on Monday last advertise for waggons or boats—I have in consequence of it, procured six canoes and three hands from Colo. Joseph Cabell, and am to have several waggons to morrow, which shall be dispatched immediately down to the Fork—The Governor told me yesterday he had consulted the members of the Assembly, and it was their universal Opinion, that the stores shou'd be sentjto Albemarle Old Court House, even the stores now at Henderson's. I am in conse- quence at a loss what to be at. I shewed the Governor your letter respecting the stores being carried to the Mountains, and he observed, when the stores were on navigation, we not only had the same oppor- tunity to remove by land, but the water also—I then urged the security of the Mountains, but he still persisted—pray write me by this Express respecting that matter— I shall however order the loads that now lie at Henderson's, to the mountains, at which place, I fear I must attend myself, not having any person that I could depend on to procure good houses. There were two hundred and fifty six barrels of powder, that came to Mr. Henderson's yesterday—I went down last night to see what num- ber of Stores were there & the situation they were in—1 found them stored, but to my great surprise in bad order—the Canoes not being clamped together, the barrels were put in the bottoms of the canoes, and by some means, or rather the canoes were near half full of water, some of them, tho' the tops of the barrels were kept dry, and one barrel fell short of the invoice brought up. now from the Governor's direc- tion to me, I shou'd suppose no more of the stores will come here, but in the case more powder comes, pray order the canoes to be clamped, as we must inevitable be ruin'd with such management. I should be exceedingly obliged to you to Order up a Commissary here, as the pro-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 134
134 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. riding and Issuing provisions falls on me, and I can by no means do it, Kay 31st and add to this my having to do with the damed Indians, who pester me amazing—I am this day to lay in a number of Goods—as I am con- stituted Commy. of Stores—Work enough but no pay—Pray if you can hear of Capt: Young inform me. I really am afraid the Capt must be lost, or deserted to Essex, cannot tell which. I want much to see you and him also. I think it would be adviseable to give orders to the per- son having direction of the stores to send Bills of parcels, and the order they are* in,—as we might from that Judge who was liable for so • many misdemeanours. I am in haste with much regard your Hbl Servant." May 31st COL: GEORGE CORBIN TO Gov: JEFFERSON, by Capt: Levin Walker. "Sir, Accomao The danger and difficulty of sending across the Bay have pre- vented me from informing before this, the particular situation of affairs in this County— Our draft was appointed the 23d ult:, but the disaffected (encouraged by the example of Northampton) about two hundred in number appeared in order to prevent it by force; being informed of their design I was prepared to meet them on their own ground, having previously ordered out a party of chosen men with a field piece to attend near the place appointed for the draft. But upon consideration I was of opinion that it would be impolitic to make use of force, as I found by enquiry, many men who had always been accounted honest, good citizens, mislead by false representations from .the disaffected, might by cool reasoning be set right again. I therefore postponed the draft for two days, and promised myself, with the assistance of others, that the people might be reasoned to their duty; however good that reason, altho' it quieted the minds of the greater part of the rioters who appeared the first day, yet a considerable number were still determined the second day to oppose it, at the risque of their lives; therefore I thought it prudent to inform the people, that I would a second time put off the draft, but was under a necessity of returning those soldiers for the War, who had opposed it, and requested them to give in their names to a person appointed to list them; which a number of them to the amount of twenty or upwards, accordingly did; these with a few others, equally guilty were adjudged the day following by a Court Martial to be soldiers during the War—Several others have since been discovered, who were concerned but concealed their arms in the woods to prevent suspicion. Those who appeared to head the mob the first day were John Curtis (Sea side) and William Garrison, but upon reasoning with them, they
Page 135
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 135 left the mob, and seemed sorry for what they had done; however peni- 1781. tent they might be, I yet view them as the most dangerous persons May 31st concerned, being the only persons of property amongst them. I was induced to adopt mildness, rather than force for the following reasons. /From the detached situation of this County, aid or supplies of any kind could not be expected from the State; nor could we expect it from our neighbours, the Marylandors, who would generally rejoice at our dis- tress, and many of them rather plunder than assist us—with the Enemy's barges continually hovering around our Sea and Bay coasts, \hreatening to burn and plunder all who should oppose their wicked • designs. (The disaffected daily increasing by their clandestine trade with the british at Portsmouth, their threats thrown out against all who shall fail to apply for protection and accept the profered mercy, in the british Proclamations, which have been very industriously and art- fully circulated and enforced; and I may add the exhausted state of our Magazines. For these reasons, I forced moderation on the friends of the State, tho' much against the inclination of many of them, least the con- trary should be productive of the general ruin of both without gaining the least advantage to our independence— Several inhabitants of this County, living near the water have been lately plundered even to the cloths on their backs, and their houses burnt to ashes; this has occasioned an address from the principle inhab- itants of this Shore, to the commanding officer of the Continental forces, desiring his influence to prevent a mode of war so cruel and inhuman, as we are taught to believe that these barge gentry who are the authors of this mischoif have no such commission, being confined to high water mark; we think by a representation of facts (established by affidavits) through a proper Chanel to tho british Commanding officer, to whom they are amenable, might prevent in future, such acts of cruelty—The Field Officers of this Shore have also requested, if it can be consistent with the good of the State, to order the men raised by their Counties, under a proper Officer to be stationed for their defence; This guard tho' small aided by Volunteers, and a barge of fifty feet long, mountg. one six, and two four-pound cannon, with swivels & muskets and fifty men, which I hope will be compleat in fifteen days, will be sufficient to pro- tect us against the insults we are daily experiencing, should we get assistance from no other quarter. Since the Enemy came last to this Bay, have been obliged to station guards on the inlets on the bay coast, and am under the necessity of asking for the public money and stores in tho County, for their support, as public credit with us is certainly dead, and our paper currency almost in the same condition—The Military Stores of the Accomack and Dili- gence Gallies are not sold, it being the opinion of the Gent: Commis- sioners and myself, that they would be more useful to the State than their produce in money if sold—Some of these, I must beg the liberty
Page 136
136 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. of equiping the barge with—I have also taken the liberty of lending to May 31rt the State of Maryland, one of the large guns, belonging to the Acco- mack, and the two nine pounders from the fort on Wollop's Island, to arm a barge building at Snow-Hill; which is 65 feet streight—this and ours are to cruize in consort for the protection of the eastern Shore of Maryland and Yirga.—Tho' I hope the liberty I have, and must take, with the public money and stores will be fully authorized by necessity. The Gentlemen who have gencrally undertaken the Barge, desire, if it is not inconsistent, that the necessary Commissions and Bonds blank, for the Capt: and two Lieutenants may be inclosed to me, or the Com- manding Officer of the County, with directions for the due execution thereof, with what fees, if any, should be taken, as soon as possible— You will please observe, from the Clerk's Certificate inclosed, that sev- eral vacancies have happened in the militia, and that Commissions are desired for those recommended; the appointment of Col: Cropper as County Lieut:, meets not only mine, but the entire approbation of every field officer of the County; as he is warmly attached to his Country, and had the experience of two years services and upwards in the Con- tinental Army— Perhaps your Excellency will wonder why I have not inclosed my Commission as County Lieut:, having resigned; you will please be informed, that on the death of Col: J. Simpson, which happened in the beginning of the year 1777, the Court was pleased to recommend me, but as I was of a weak constitution, and by no means capable of filling so important a Commission, I would not suffer my recommendation to be sent over, but was determined to serve the County to the best of my ability, un till some person, more equal to the task should be proposed by the Court; this I flatterered myself would happen soon, but to my great disappointment, did not take place untill Mar: last, so have not, nor never had any Commission as County Lieut:, but acted under the Court's recommendation, and the Commission I then had, as Colonel to the first Battalion—Wo have had several late arrivals on our Shore from the West Indies, but no news by them—Pardon me for having called your attention so long from matters of greater importance— I am Your most obedt. humbl. Servt." May 3lst COL: GEORGE SLAUGHTER, COHDG. AT FALLS OF OHIO, TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Louisville, Having never received any kind of Clothing or pay, requests that the Ky- bearer Mr. Chapman Austin may draw, his own, and that also of Capt: Benjamin Roberts and Ensign Wm. Roberts.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 137
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 137 SURGEON MATH: POPE TO Gov: JEFFERSON, at Charlottesville. 1781. "Hon'blo Sir, Doctor Wilson, who has the Superintendance of the Con- May 31st tinental medical department in this State, informs mo that the medicines, Henrico Co. that were coming on from Rhode Island, (and belonging to this State) have been taken for the use of the Continental Army, owing, ho tells mo, to their being no directions on them: this Sir, is a double misfortune at this juncture, for the State is almost without every useful medicine, and what is to be done I know not, if some method is not fallen upon to recover them, or others in liou of them—Such treatment as this surely deserves the highest censure, and I shuld think corporal punishment on the offenders." ***** * * * "Having been lately much with the Army, I have seen how they suffer, and what difficulties they labour under for almost every thing they want, and what great discontent pre- vails amongst all ranks of People, and I must say, I think with great cause; and unless some mode is fallen upon to satisfie the people and supply the Army better, I see little prospect of our supporting it long. The remedy is easy and very expeditiously to be accomplished; and in a manner whereby impressing necessarys &c which so exasperated the people at largo, may be avoided, and I hope, Sir, you have influence enough to effect so desirable an end. If the Assembly will allow such a price, as one neighbour gives to another, or the market price for every necessary the Army stands in need of, or if they will allow the person authorized to provide the nccessarys for the Army, to give certificates to be paid in kind, or as much money as will replace the commodity when paid, I am fully convinced the Army would be well supplied, and a number of waggons might be dispensed with—the people would bring in the different articles the Army stand in need of, and both Army and peo- ple contented and happy—I would have the same mode adopted, with respect to Waggons, Carts or Horses—You will pardon the liberty I have taken;' leaving you Sir, to improve on the hint, and earnestly to recommend it to the Assembly to be instantly adopted: I do not think there is any time to lose. I am sorry to inform your Excellency, I have never yet received the necessarys I wrote for by Colo. Senf—Col: Davies nor Quarter Master was to be found—I have since inclosed the memorandum by Major Clai- borne to Colo. Davies—I must beg the favour of you Sir, to write to Col: Davies, desiring the Articles may be sent on to the General Hos- pital, which at this moment is at Allen's Creek Church in Hanover. where it may be tomorrow I know not, as we keep moving with the Army, transporting all our Medicines and Stores with the Hospital. fearing that list may miscarry I have inclosed another, and must beg y our Excellency will order Colo. Davies to procure such articles as he. 18
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 138
138 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. has not, especially Oznaburgs for Bedding, for should we have an action, May 31st we have no Beds to lay our wounded men on." * * I beg my most respectful compliments to your Lady and am, with the highest Esteem and Regard, Your Excellency's most obnt and Respectful Servt." May— "RETURN" OF THE MILITIA OF SPOTSYLVANIA COUNTY—Made by Bev: Y. Winslow, County Lieutenant. 1. County Lieut: 1. Colo.—1. Lt: Colo., 1. Maj.—12 Capts:—11 Lieuts: 6 2nd Lieute: 12 Ensigns—& 48 Sergeants—Privates above 18 yrs: old 462—Privates under 18 yrs: old 56—Total 611. May— DOCT: WEKING COLE TO COL: Wu. DA VIES—at the "Fork." "Dear Sir, You seemed not to be determined with respect to inoculating the new recruits—I beg pardon for having mentioned it in the public manner I did—it was owing to my being off my guard—if you shou'd think proper that they shou'd receive the infection, I will most chear- fully give it, & pay every attention that a man can possibly do—My acquaintance with Colo. Davies, I hope will be a full testimony of my abilities, whether I am Capable of undertaking the charge or not." * * * * * * I have the honor to be Dr. Sir, Your very hble Servant." May — Thomas Watts, one of the Justices of the Peace for this County, hav- Bedford Co. ing been charged with High Treason, and ordered for further trial, by Court tne Court, it is recommended, that the Governor issue a new Commis- sion for the County, and the said Watts be left out. Signed by Jas: Steptoe, Clerk. June 1st Bail Bond of John Ellyson, in the penalty of Twenty Thousand weight of Merchantable Tobacco"—to appear before the Governor and Council when called for; and obliging him "not to go within Ten miles of any post, encampment or party, of the Enemy." Signed, Sealed and delivered in presence of Foster Webb and John Bryan.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 139
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. . 139 COL: FRA: TAYLOR TO Gov: JEFFERSON. 1781. June 1st Reminding him of his letters of the 16th and 26th May, in which he Winchester stated that the Board of Officers had discharged nearly all the men of the State Guard Regiment—Only one Corporal and four privates remain. The Officers still there, at expence to the State and themselves. Begs for instructions as to how the latter shall be disposed of. Ro: WOODING Co. LIEUT: TO THE GOVERNOR. June 1st Giving strength of the Militia of his County, as follows—"20 Cap- Halifax Co. taina, 40 Lieuts: 20 Ensigns, and 1004 Rank and File—Eighty-eight of which are under 18 years of age—of the remaining part about 350 at' this time in Actual Service in this State & Carolinia"—Expresses great regret and concern that the men of his County who "would be glad to use their arms upon every proper occasion against the Common Enemy," have neither guns, ammunition; or even "a flint to put into a gun"— Begs to be furnished with a supply of arms and ammunition—The Court Martial has found only forty men Delinquent, and are on this account drafted to serve" six months in this State. They shall be sent down at once. COL: FRA: TAYLOR TO COL: DAVIES at Charlottesville. June 1st Accounting for the arms of the discharged Soldiers of the S. Guard— Winchester He, upon the application of the County Lieutenant of Frederick, had let him have one hundred and forty, for the use of the Militia going against the Tories in Hampshire County. SAML: HUNTINGTON, PREST. OF CONGRESS TO Gov: JEFFERSON. June 2nd Referring to his letter of the day before, containing important Intel- Philadelphia ligence, which was necessary to be known to the Executives of the respective States; but was of such a nature that it should be kept pro- foundly secret—He therefore requests that effectual means be taken by his Excellency to prevent copies, or extracts of his letter of the 1st Inst: from being taken or published. JOHN CABEEN TO THE GOVERNOR. June 2nd Praying to be reloaded from confinement where, altho' a prisoner of Charlottes- , he is kept in Irons, and among murderers and other felons—has vi e
Page 140
140 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. married in Richmond; never taken part in the war on either side, and June 2nd was arrested by Col: Davies merely on suspicion; never has had a trial or any investigation of his case, altho' three years have passed since he was first made a prisoner. June 2nd COL: DAVIES TO COLO. Jos: HOLMES. War Office, Desiring to be informed as to the nature of his Appointment, and t powers as Commissary of Prisoners; take place 1st July, on James River. ar ott- powers as Commissary of Prisoners; in as much as an Exchange is to June 2nd WILL: HARRISON TO THE GOVERNOR. . Yohegane Informing him, that the provisions required for the Western Expedi- tion are all ready, and will be at Fort Pitt; with boats ready to trans- port them by the 15th Inst:—But the cost has far exceeded his expecta- tions, and having found it necessary to pledge his private credit to com- plete the purchases, begs for an additional sum of £400.000 Pounds to meet his obligations. June 3d THEOD. BLAND TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Sir, Philadelphia The letter from the delegation to yr: Excellency, will apprize you of the situation of Public Affairs at this time, and of our endeavours to promote every thing that can give energy to the exertions of the Army in defense of our distressed Country. I sh'd not therefore have troubled yr. Excellency with the perusal of this, which relates to myself, did not my own peculiar situation render it necessary & had I not reason to con- jecture from the several late ineffectual applications, I have been driven through dire necessity to make, that my letters may have miscarried— I can hardly suppose them to have passed unnoticed. The long expected, and long wished for, remittance which was to have come through the hands of Mr. Braxton, has afforded us no relief, & has evap- orated into Smoke. My Finances are, as well as my credit, entirely exhausted; my Private resources in Virginia cut off by the Enemy,and I am at this moment without the means of buying a dinner, or of pro- curing money, even to purchase a bait of oats for my horses—I have even offered my Horses for sale (but cannot meet with a Purchaser) in order to procure a present subsistence for my family—The money I have borrowed, with the most Solemn Assurances to repay, and which I am disappointed in doing, is this day exhausted to the last shilling. the anxiety I feel in this situation (new to me) is insupportable, especially as it incapacitates me in some degree, from turning my thoughts, with
Page 141
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. that application I w'd wish to do, to those important concerns, which I 1781. would wish to engross my whole attention—the subject is such an one, June 3d as I cannot, but with the utmost sense of pain commit to Paper—and with feelings which I cannot so well describe as yr: Excellency may con- ceive, I must therefore cease to prosecute it further by assuring you, I am Yr: Excellency's obedt. Servt." (Copy.) G. MASON TO GEORGE MASON JUNR., ESQR., (in France.)* June 3d "Dear George, Your Brother William writes you by this opportunity. GunstonHall He returned some time ago, from South Carolina, where ho commanded a Company of Volunteers (75 five young fellows from this Country). He had a rough Campaign of it, and has acquired the Reputation of a vigilant & good officer, and I think is greatly improved by the Expedi- tion—Your Brother Thomas has lately returned from a Tour of Militia Duty upon James River. He commanded a Platoon, in a pretty close action at Williamsburg & behaved with proper coolness & Intrepidity: He is now from home, or wou'd have wrote to you. I have written you very fully lately upon domestic subjects; but I am not able to give you any agreeable public news. Our affairs have been for some time grow- ing from bad to' worse. The Enemy's Fleet commands our Rivers, & puts it in their power to remove their Troops from place to place, when, and where they please, without opposition; So that we no sooner collect a Force sufficient to counteract them in one part of the Country, but they shift to another, ravaging, plundering and destroying everything before them. Our militia turn out with great spirit, & have in several late actions behaved bravely; but they are badly armed and appointed. General Green, with about 1200 regular Troops & some militia, is in South Carolina; where ho has taken all the Enemy's Posts, except Charlostown. The Enemy's capital object, at this time, seems to be Vir- ginia. General Phillips died lately in Petersburg: upon which the Com- mand of the British Troops there devolved upon Arnold. But Ld: Corn- wallis quitting North Carolina, has since join'd Arnold, with about 1200 Infantry & 300 cavalry & taken the chief command of their Army in Virginia, now consisting of about 5000 men: They have crossed James River, and by the latest accounts, were at Westover: their light horse having advanced as far as Hanover Court House. They have burn'd Page's Warehouses, where the greatest part of the York River Tobacco was collected; they had before burn'd most of the Tobacco, upon James River, and have plunder'd great part of the adja- cent country. The Marquis de la Fayette is abt. twenty miles below * The original of this paper ilr ).,t..- : of Va. Hist: Society. J
Page 142
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Fredericksburg, with about 1200 regulars ot 3000 militia, waiting the June 3d arrival of General Waine with abt. 1500 regular Troops of the Pensyl- vania Line. We have had various accounts of the sailing of a French Fleet, with a Body of Land-Forces, for America. Should they really arrive, it wou'd quickly change the Face of our affairs, & infuse fresh Spirits & Confidence; but it has been so long expected in vain, that lit- tle credit is now given to Reports concerning it. You know, from your own acquaintance in this Part of Virginia, that the Bulk of the People here are staunch Whigs, strongly attached to the American Cause and well affected to the French Alliance: yet they grow uneasy & restless, and begin to think that our Allies are spinning out the War, in order to weaken America, as well as Great Britain, and thereby leave us at the End of it, as dependent as possible upon them- selves. However unjust this opinion may be, it is natural enough, for the Planters & Farmers, burdened with heavy Taxes, & frequently drag'd from their Familys upon Military Duty, on the continual alarms occa- sioned by the superiority of the British Fleet. They see their Property daily exposed to Destruction, they see with what Facility the British Troops are removed from one part of the Continent to another, and with what infinite charge & Fatigue, ours are, too late, obliged to follow; and they see too very plainly, that a strong French Fleet would have pre- vented all this. v If our Allies had a superior Fleet here, I shou'd have no Doubt of a favourable Issue to the War, but without it, I fear we are deceiving both them & ourselves, in expecting we shall be able to keep our People much longer firm, in so unequal an Opposition to Great Britain. France surely intends the separation of these States, for ever, from Great Britain—It is highly her Interest to accomplish this; but by drawing out the Thread too fine & long, it may unexpectedly break in her Hands. God bless you, my dear child! and grant that we may again meet in your native country, as Freemen; otherwise, that we may never see each other more, is the Prayer of, Your Affectionate Father." &c &c. Endorsed in G. Mason's* Autograph: "Copy of my Father's Letter, date Gunston Hall, June 3d 1781. The original, Dr. Franklin put into the hands of the Count de Vergennes." *G. Mason Jur: commanded a company in the regular Army, but from serious rheumatism,-contracted or increased in the service, was obliged to resign, and go to Europe for a change of climate.
Page 143
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 143 Jos: MARTIN TO COL: ARTHUR CAMPBELL, Washington Co. 1781. June 4th Giving information, that messengers sent by "the Warriors," say there Long Island are three hundred Indians on their way to attend at the proposed Treaty. The messenger he sent to them missed them by going through the woods, having found out ho would be way-laid in the road—When Murphy the Messenger loft, soveri canoes, with women and children were on their way: the others will come by land. Suggests the policy of detaining those until the Treaty shall shall have been perfected; but recommends a Commissary be sent to provide for their maintenance, as ho has neither corn, meal or money. He has sent to Col: Sevior, by Express, to attend, and Col: Bledsoe now with him, earnestly requests that he, Campbell, will make it Convenient to be at tho Conference. The alarm spread by Crawford is without foundation; but has had the effect of drawing to the frontier a considerable force. COL: ARTHUR CAMPBELL TO Gov: JEFFERSON. June4th "Sir, This day your Orders of tho 28th of May camo to hand, and I am Washington very sorry our situation at present is such that I have but a small pros- poet of fowarding tho aid required—The murmuring and distresses occa- sioned by tho misconduct of Commissaries, and the want of pay for Militia Services performed last year; together with the dread a man commonly has to leave his Family exposed to the danger of being destroyed by the Indians before his return, are objections not easily answered—If tho militia were paid off, I believe I should succeed well in complying with your Excellency's orders of the 12th of April last; and to this I have hopes to add one Troop of Horse. Our frontier is now threatened with an Invasion from tho Creek Indians, Cherokecs, Tories, & Co. By a Letter from Colo. Sevier to Colo. Isaac Shelby which he favored me with the perusal, a certain Crawford just made his escape from the Cherokees, says, that the British Agent, some Tories, and a large Body of Indians were preparing to come in, in order to give a blow to confound the project of a Treaty. The account is so far believed in Carolinia, that part of their militia are embodied. To me, it is doubtful, on account of the want of provisions; and information I have from Georgia, that Governor Galvis (Galvez) has succeeded against Pensacola, treated with the Creek Indians in behalf of America, as well as the Spainards, and that General Pickens at Ninety Six, and Colo. Clarke at Augusta were in a fair way to reduce those posts. Gen- eral Greene's Head Quarters at Orangeburg—Sumpter at Monks' Corner, ajid Marian carrying off a picquet from the Quarter-House. I am Sir, Your most obedient Humble Servant." "P. S. We are in want of ammunition."
Page 144
144 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. June 4th "Sir, JAMES CALLAWAY, Co. LIEUT: TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Bedford Co. It has not beon in my Power to march from this County, more than two Companies of Militia, in consequence of your Instructions of tho 8th of May last—Notwithstanding, as many men have been called upon, as it was thought arms could be Procured for—tho men that have marched are part of those who have just finished a Tour of three months at Portsmouth; in whose absence, the whole Balance of our militia (that could be commanded) servd. & are serving Towers to the Southward; so that it Properly became their Turns to serve again on the Present call." Under these circumstances he has promised to relieve them in six weeks, and hopes his conduct will be approved—These men are very poor, and their families depend upon their labor for subsistence. He has not been able to get into the Field any of the militia con- demned to six months service by a Court Martial—Those caught, have broke jail or escaped from their guard—They will not serve except by compulsion: and are very troublesome in as much as "those Disaffected & Disobedient Wretches, reside much together," harbor deserters and secret them. Nearly forty of the eighteen months men have lately deserted and are protected by them. Suggests the policy of granting to every man, who will arrest one of those outlaws and deliver him up at the general Rendezvous credit for his term of military service, in lieu of bounty money. Thinks this will soon clear the County of them. June 6th SAML: HUNTINGTON, PREST: OF CONGRESS TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Philadelphia Enclosing resolution of Congress of the 2nd Inst:, directing that all Bills issued in the respective States, in Pursuance of the Resolution of 18th of March 1780, after the expiration of one year from the time the Interest begins to be computed, be stamped with the words or characters "Int pd. one (or 1.) year"—That such of the said Bills as have already been issued, whenever the Interest is paid, be stamped in like manner, "to prevent tho necessity & expence of exchanging them"—Also that the several States, suspend, as far as possible the Issuing of such Part of their respective quotas of such Bills as remain to be issued. June6th WM. FLEMING, LIEUT: GOVERNOR, TO COL: JAS: WOOD. S tau n ton Enclosing resolutions of Congress of May 23d 1781, and instructions from the U. S. Board of War, requiring the removal of the "Convention Troops" to Rutland in Mass: Bay—the Commissioned Officers to East Windsor in Connecticut—requesting also, Virginia to furnish forty or fifty head of cattle, and a guard of militia as far as York, in Pensylvania—
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 145
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 145 Considering the difficulty of inducing the militia to go, at this juncture, 1781. so far out of the State, and not being informed what Counties had been Juneuth called on to furnish the Marquis de la Fayette with Troops, Col: Wood is requested to apply to the County Lieutenants along the line of march, to furnish this guard as far as York, if not, at least to Frederick Town in Maryland—He is authorized to call on any of the State Commissa- ries for the beeves, which, unless otherwise provided, are to be impressed. The Prisoners now at Winchester, who were taken in the Southern Department, are also to be removed to Frederick, Maryland. EDWIN CONWAY Co. LIEUT: TO THE GOVERNOR. June6th Enclosing "Return" of the militia as ordered viz: "258, above 18 years Lancaster Co of ago, & under fifty" years of ago—and "24 under the age of eighteen years"—adds "The depredations of the Enemy is very Rapid"—the militia almost without ammunition, and the greater part called out to guard the numerous posts. STATEMENT OF CHARGES made against "Fauntleroy Dye," formerly June 7th Inspector of Tobacco in Richmond County, and Capt: of Militia, certi- fied to, as being true, by Richard Henry Leo Esqr. and Richd: Parker Esqr.—to wit, That In the year 1779, ho commenced a merchant, and going with a Westmorel'd Load of Tobacco towards Baltimore ho fell into the hands of the Enemy, but soon after, was dismissed and he returned to his family with a con- siderable quantity of specie—This circumstance created a suspicion amongst his neighbours of his having concocted a trading scheme with the Enemy, it being a known fact, that before this Trip he had not one farthing of specie in the world. He not long afterwards was taken up and examined in Court for forging Inspector's notes, and altho' the Proof was not sufficient for his conviction, there was not a man, who heard his examination, but was fully convinced of his guilt: The asso- ciate with Dye, who sold the forged notes, now declares that Dye and he, if their scheme of selling them had succeeded, were to have purchased a vessel, loaded her with Tobacco taken out of the Warehouse where Dye was Inspector & also with Negroes, and to have gone over to the Enemy: this it is asserted, the man will now swear. After the Forging was detected, Dye went out of this State to North Carolina, with his slaves and Stocks, where he staid but a short time; for being detected, as it is said, in corresponding with the Enemy, ho was obliged to fly from thence to the County of Richmond, where he had formerly lived. Here he lives retired. refusing to do Militia Duty is charged with using every means in his Power to prevent others from sub, 19
Page 146
146 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. June 7th mitting to the Laws, & with having private meetings at his house, of thg Disaffected, some of whom declare, they will, if draughted, go over to the Enemy: These meetings arc conducted with so much privacy, that it is difficult to procure full proof against him. But it is agreed on all hands, that he is a very Dangerous, artful man, and will do great Dam- age, if the Enemy come into this Part of the country. It is most earn- estly requested by all good People of Richmond & Westmoreland, that his Excellency will exercise the Powers he is vested with to secure this man whilst the Enemy is in the State." June7th STEPHEN SOUTHALL TO COL: DAViES, at Point of Fork. Staunton Expresses his intense concern, at hearing the Enemy are at Charlottes- ville, and that of consequence his papers must be all lost; but was delighted to hear Col: Davies had safely brought off these, and especially his Iron Chest containing the most important and valuable of his books &c—He is especially thankful for "this great delivery" Knowing well "the prejudices against Quarter Masters"—and that the late charge of their losing the Arms Ordered for members of the Assembly would "have been fixed"; adding "After they were arrived behold there was not a single man that would handle one of them, they lost them, and some of the members thinks right that the Quarter Masters are blama- ble." He is tired of acting as Q. Master, being censured; let him act, never so cautiously—Some "meddlesome fellow" is always starting false reports. June8th COL: JAMES WOOD TO THE GOVERNOR OB ANY MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL. Albemarle Co. Enclosing copies of Resolutions of Congress, and Letter from the Board of War, relative to the removal of the "Convention Troops" &c. By advice of the Marquis la Fayette the German Troops have been removed to Shepherd's Town on the Potomack, there to remain until he can procure guard, waggons, provisions &c. The Board of War have authorised him to call for a guard of six hundred men, but he thinks two hundred and fifty from this State will suffice—He therefore requests, that number of the Militia of Frederick, Berkely, Hampshire or Shenandoah be ordered on this duty—and asks for warrants for impressing wagons, and at least fifty beeves; without which it will be useless to move—He is just from Maryland, where he "could not upon any Terms procure u single beef," and he is informed none are to be had in Pensylvania. Should he be armed with those powers, he will ."make the Burthen fall on the Disaffected"—Asks to be furnished with about three hundred Dollars of the "New Emission," which will be of the utmost consequence to him, "on this long and disagreeable march."
Page 147
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 147 WM. FLEMING, LIEUT: GOVERNOR, TO COL: JAS: WOOD, in reply to above. 1781. June 9th After referring to the Resolves of Congress and Letter of Board of Staunton War; gives authority to call out the Militia, impress beeves and wagons, and encloses Orders to the County Lieutenants of Rockingham, and other Counties along the proposed line of march to furnish proper guards at the Passes in the Mountains—viz "Fifty men at Swift Run Gap," and "Thirty at Wood's Gap,"—Some of these to be mounted, so as to discover in time the approach of the enemy. STEPHEN SOUTHALL TO COL: DAVIES, Somewhere on James River. June9th "Dear Sir, I wrote you three days ago respecting my Iron Chest, in Staunton which is deposited my most valuable papers, that wou'd utterly involve me in ruin were they to be lost. I must therefore beg the favour of you to take care of this Chest, as I am vastly uneasy for fear of its fall- ing into the enemies hands; the conclusion of the people then would be, I lost them for fear of Settlement, and as I trust my conduct, never as yet has given cause of suspicion, and I wou'd not for the Universe be defamed. My character is too near to me. I must entreat you to be so obliging as to bring this Iron Chest with you. it was very unfortunate that I was obliged to come up in pursuit of Store houses, otherwise I wou'd have secured my books and papers, and if lost will be a ruinous Stroke to me—Oh! the severity of a reflection being cast on me, for the loss of these books wou'd be so galding I should not long exist—Many of Capt: Young's papers are deposited there. I have sent down to Char- lottesville for a Bed for you, and you will be accommodated with Capt: Young & myself; both or either will make your situation as agreeable as possible. I have. got about Two hundred and Eighty barrels of powder well stored, some dry-goods, together with some Bridles & Saddles; all the Stores we have here, except some few old Guns—Pray write me the first Oppy. about my chest, as you cannot concieve my anxiety. I am, very respectfully Dr. Colo. Yr: very hble Servnt." CHAS: RUSSELL, D. Q. MASTER TO COL: DAVIES. June 9th Having received no Orders from Baron Steuben or Maj: Claiborne, in Maj. Penn's, regard to the Stores at "Albemarle glebe, and Irvings," he has thought A mii erst Co.
Page 148
148 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. it best to remove them to this place, as there were no troops to prevent June 9th the enemy from moving up and destroying them. He has written to the Baron, but has no reply—The Express is ordered to Prince Edward Co. House, where he hears the Baron is, and supposes Col: Davies may be with him. June 9th 'JAMES MADISON JUR: TO Gova. JEFFERSON. "Sir, Philadelphia The inclosed extract of a letter from Genl: Washington, No 1, will give your Excellency a more particular account of the late embarkation from N. York, than has been before obtained. On Thursday last Congress were informed by General Potter & Col; Johnston who came Expresses for the purpose, that a general mutiny of the Pennsylvania Line stationed near Morris Town, apart from the rest of the Army, had broken out on the morning of New Year's day. Every effort was made by the Officers to stifle it on its first appearance, but without effect. Several of them fell victims to the mutineers. The next information came from Genl: Wayne who wrote from Princeton, whither the troops had marched in regular order on their way to Phil- ada., as they gave out not to lay down their arms nor return to their obedience 'till their grievances should be redressed. They did not suffer any of their officers to remain with them except Genl: Wayne, and Cols: Stewart & Butler, and these they kept under a close guard, but in every other respect, treated with the utmost decorum. The groivances com- plained of were principally a detention of many in service, beyond the term of enlistment, & the sufferings of all from a deficient supply of cloathing & subsistanco, & long arrearage of pay. Several propositions & replies on the subject of redress passed between a deputation of Ser- geants on the part of the Troops & General Wayne. but without any certain tendency to a favorable issue. The affair at length took a very serious aspect, and as a great proportion of that linc are foreigners and not a few deserters from the British Army, and as they showed a dispo- sition to continue at Prineton, from whence a refuge with the Enemy, who it was said were coming out in force to avail themselves of the sit- uation of things, was very practicable, it was thought nccessary to depute a Committee of Congress with powers to employ every expedient for putting a speedy end to it. The President of the State with a num- ber of Gentlemen from this place also, went up to interpose their influ- ence. The inclosed Copy of a Letter from the Committee No 2, with the paper No 3, referred to in it, are the last accounts received of the matter. The manner in which the offers & emissary of Clinton were received & treated, is a very auspicious circumstance, & will probably in its impression on the Enemy fully balance the joy & encouragement which this event tended to give them. Co!: Bland being onc of the Committee does not join me in this. I have the honor to be, with great respect & Esteem Yr: Excelly's obt. Servt.
Page 149
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. U9 Nol. "Extract of a Letter from Genl: Washington. 1781. June 9th N. Windsor, 2nd Jany., 1781. "I have at length, through a channel on which I can depend, gained an account, as accurate as circumstances will admit, of tho embarkation which sail'd from N. York on the 20th ulto. It consisted of about 16OO men, and was cheifly composed of detachments from the British, Ger- man & Provincial Corps. Tho Queen's Rangers is said to be the only entire corps Arnold commands, which, my informant says, gives disgust to many of the other Officers. The destination was not reduced to a certainty, but from the preparations & the Refugees who embarked in the fleet, it was generally thought to be to the Southward." No 2. Trenton, Jany. 7th 1781. 10-o-clock. "Sir," "The Committee arrived here last night & met with Mr. President Reed, who had been near Princeton & sent a letter to Genl: Wayne by two of his Light Horse. They were suffered to proceed to the General with the letter unopened. He at the request of the sergeants showed it to them and it was to be read to the whole this morning. There were symptons that they would be content with the proposals and make the matter up. It appears from all accounts that they have behaved with surprising regularity in all respects (their revolt excepted) and seemed disappointed that Mr. Reed did not proceed & trust himself to them. He is this morning gone back, and we are happy to inform you that Dr. Sheilds is just come in and says that a person from Genl: Clinton with another for his guide, had come to their encampment and made them the proposals, of which the inclosed is a copy. They received it with so much indignation, that they not only rejected the proposals, but seized the two Agents & delivered them to Genl Wayne, who sent them under a guard & delivered them to Blair McClatiahan & Alex: Nesbit, who have them now in custody. The Committee are immediately to write to Genl: Reed, and expect a spe'edy &v. happy Issue of this affair. Signed in behalf of the Committee JOHN WITHERSPOON." "P. S. That you may not think the above is only reports—Genl: Reed saw & read the paper & sent it on to us. & kept the prisoners with himself—Dr. Sheilds saw them in custody." No 3. . "It having been reported at N. York, that the Pennsylva. troops and others having been defrauded by Congress of their pay. cloathing & provisions, and assembled for a redress of their grievances, & also that notwithstanding the terms of their enlistments are expired, they have
Page 150
150 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. X 1781. been forcibly detained in the service where they have suffered every June 9th kind of injury and oppression. They are now offered to be taken under the protection of the British Government, to have their rights restored, a free pardon for all former offences, and that pay due to them from Con- gress, faithfully paid to them without any expectation of military ser- vice, except it may be voluntary, upon laying down their arms & return- ing to their allegiance, for which purposes, if they will send Commis- sioners to Amboy, they will there be met by people empowered to treat with them, and faith shall be pledged for their security. It is recommended to them, for their own safety, to move behind South River, and whenever ttfey request it, a Body of British troops shall protect them. It is needless to point out the inability as well as want of inclination in Congress to releive them, or to tell them the sever- ities that will be used by the Rebel leaders toward them, should they think of returning to their former servitude. It will be proved to the Commissioncrs they choose to send, that the authority from whence this comes is sufficient to ensure the performance of the above proposals. To the Person appointed by the Pennsylvania Troops to lead them in the present struggle for their liberties and Rights." June 9th J. PARKER, ACTING COLO. COMG., TO THE HON: SPEAKER op THE ASSEMBLY. "Dear Sir," Quarters A few days since, I wrote Mr. Jefferson, respecting my pecu- e* 6 SMills liar situation, being in the Field with a few men from Isle of Wyght & Nancemond, and from a request of the Marquis de la Fayette, to embody as many of the Militia as I could, down James River below the Enemy: in consequence of which, in addition to the men before mentioned, have ordered from Southampton 200 & from Surry 100 men. the last County has sent nearly their number, but the former, contrary to their common custom has-only furnish'd a small proportion, as you will discover by a "return" of the force here collected. You will find but few from Nance- mond, and without rigid discipline and greater force, or martial law, I shall expect but few more, they being much overawed by the Enemy which is very strong at Portsmouth,—& its vicinity, as you will discover by the enclosed list which you may depend on as within a hundred of their force—As to the number with Lord Cornwallis, presume the Marquiss can best inform you as to his strength & situation—In addition to those that marched to Petersburg with Cornwallis and Phillips, is the 43d Regt: and near half the 17th & 150 Jagers—these came with the last reinforcements from New York—I shou'd, in consequence of the Marquiss' request, have ordered men from the adjacent Counties of Surry & South- ampton, but feared the want of arms; but as they have not turned out,
Page 151
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 151 equal to my expectations, can arm near two hundred more. I also at 1781. the request of Genl: Lafayette, have collected about sixty of the best June 9th Horses below, fearing they shou'd fall into the Enemy's hands; but they are valued much over the lawfull allowance. this I fear will bring me into difficulties as well -as procuring supplies of every thing, in all the different departments from the inhabitants, without sufficient powers, or having any established Staff Officers—indeed I have employed Smiths to repair the Arms, to make horseman's swords; & mechanicks of different sorts, in the different branches without sufficient authority—which may probably ruin me without even the approbation of my Country, and for what? to expose my person, my property, my family and all—'tis a hor- rid situation, and altho' I have wrote the Governor on the subject, he treats it with contempt, and does not deign to answer me—I fear, my dear Sir, the root of our Springs of Government is rotten, and I dread the consequence. Nothing but my zeal cou'd induce me to write thus freely. I am foolishly fond of my Country, and cannot bear to see her neglected—be assured Sir, exertions must be made in this quarter, our very existence depends on it; from whence can we derive our supplies, if the navigation of the Southern Waters are stoped—if they stretch a a line from Cape Fear to Petersburg, they stop our commerce—the peo- ple will easily come into it from an advantage of the trade with them, they allready court it, and wish to familiarize themselves by these means. In order to strengthen us here I shou'd order men from Sussex & Greens- ville bearing arms to equip near a fourth of their militia, but find it wou'd be useless, as Genl: Lawson has ordered Colo. Downman to order these, as well as the So. Hampton men now hero to join under Col: Down- man, and form a Camp near Petersburg—you may best know for what— And I shall be glad to know what Counties are to march here, or whether a Camp is to be kept up at all; and you will indemnify mo for /what supplies has been used, and empower me, or some other, to con- these supplies, and send money to pay of those debts allready con- tracted—if this is not done, I shall quit the field—You will give mo leave to tell you, that I have acted without Commission, during the different Invasions, at the request of the difft: Commanding Officers, without ever haveing the sanction of the Governor for doing so, and without over charging the publick for my services, or those of my domesticks, & should ever continue happy in doing so, cou'd I see that they wou'd be serviceable. You will excuse my being so prolix, and allow me to tell you that some things point themselves to me, that deserves your con- sideration—Many people in the lower country go frequently to the enemy, and doubtless carry information—many go under the Auspioes of Flaggs of Ct. Lieuts, where no men are embodyed, attended with the same or worse consequences. the civil law is not sufficient in these relaxed times to punish sufficiently. our prisoners is an object of atten- tion; they might be releived by some of theirs in our possession, and I
Page 152
152 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. am sorry to tell you that there is more danger to be dreaded of a reli- June9th gious nature than either of the others. A certain sett of Preachers, called Methodists are preaching the doctrine of passive obedience, and point out the horrors of war in so alarming a manner, that it has caused many to declare they wou'd suffer death rather than kill even an enemy— this is a new doctrinc and inculcated by some sensible preachers from England, which I am told is payed by the Ministry through Wesley for this purpose—it must be discountenanced, or all torys will plead religion as excuse, and get license to preach. there are many men parol'd from request, in the lower Counties. I have hitherto thought it best to evade the Act of Assembly for sending them to the Enemy as many wou'd be useful to them. I think confinement to a County over the Mountains wou'd best suit them. You will honor mo with your opinion upon the above subjects, and let me know what I am to expect, as it may be a means of regulating my future conduct—This will be delivered you by Capt: Pierce—he can well inform you of our situation here. With much respect and very great regard, I have the honor to be, Dear Sir, Your most Obt Servant." Enclosed is the return of his command viz • "Brigade of Militia Commanded by Colo. Josiah Parker &c." Infantry—Field Officers 2, Capts: 9, Lieuts 13. Ensigns 6.— 386— Cavalry—Capts: 2, Lieuts: 2. Ensigns 1. Total Rank & File 46. Artillery Capts 1," "" "10 Total 442 Two pieces of Artillery—" 1 12-pdr. Cannonade, 1. 3-pdr. double for- tified." Junc9th CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Dr. Sir, Staunton The Iron chest that was put in your Waggon contains a num- ber of Papers of consequence: you will be pleas'd to take it with you to this place. We have reason to apprehend that the Enemy are within twelve miles of Charlottesville—I apprehended two days ago a Deserter on suspicion of his being a Spio: circumstances are strong against him, but no positive proof, ho says that the Enemy will be hear in a day or two—some confidence is reposed in his assertion by many, for my part I give no credit to any thing that he says. Two days ago Mr. Nicholas gave notice, that he shou'd this day, move to have a Dictator appointed*—Genl: Washington- & Genl: Greene are * The enemies of Patrick Henry have asserte<l that his name was also mentioned in this connection, and that he did not manifest such disapprobation of the proposi- tion as became one so prominent in the cause of Republican Liberty—Had this been true, the fact would not have escaped the attention of a? intelligent a correspondent as Capt: Henry Young.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 153
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 153 talked of. I dare to say your knowledge of these worthy Gentlemen, will be sufficient to convince you, that neither of them will, or ought to accept of such an appointment—Genl: Wayn join'd the Marquis yester- day with a very respectable Corps—perhaps it might be the day before, Accts. differ. We have but a thin House of Delegates, but they arc zealous I think, in the cause of virtue—I want to see you much. I think this Session of Assembly will*be very short. I am yr. unshaken frd:" 1781. June 9th GEO: ROGERS CLARKE TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. June 10th "Sir, Capt Bentley of the Illinois attends on mo with a number of bills Yohogania on government for furnitures made to our troops in that country. Those that I have countersign'd, appear by the accts. annex'd and different letters from Genls. to be sufficiently authenticated for payment. He has other Bills drawn by Col. Montgomery that I cannot with propriety credit uutill I am made sensible of the Justness of them by the Accts: of that Country: but they probably may be Just. Your Excellency will do as you please Respecting them. I am informed that Mr. Charles Gratiot hath also Bills on their way to you. Some of them I know must be Just, as that Gentle. as well as Capt: Bentloy have taken great Pains to subsist our Troops in that Departmt., Particularly paying of the Expencc of an Expedition up the Illinois River which promised good Consequences." * * * * "Capt: Bently appears desirous to undertake the supplying Fort Jeffer- son with provisions for a garrison of 100 men. If it should be your pleasure to make such contract, I dont know any person more likely to accomplish such a task. He has a universal good character as a gentle- man & hath suffor'd much on acct. of the present contest. I have the Honor To be your very Humble & obedt Servt." ROBERT MORRIS TO Gov: JEFFERSON. June llth "Sir, No doubt you have seen in the Publick Papers, the plan of Estab- Philadelphia lishing a National Bank, the necessity of which every body sees, that allow themselves the least time for reflection in the present state of Pub- lic Credit. All the Publick Bodies in America, have more or less lost the confidence of the world as to moncy matters, by applying Expedients to stop a course of depreciation which original errors had fixed too deep to admit of any radical cure. It is in vain to think of carrying on War any longer, by means of such depreciating medium, and at the same 20
Page 154
154 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. June llth time an Efficient circulation of Paper, that cannot depreciate, is abso- lutely necessary to Anticipate the Revenues of America—A National Bank is not only the most certain; but will prove the most usefull & Economical mode of doing so. It is therefore, of the utmost Import- ance, that this first Essay, confined as it is in point of Capital, should be brought into action with the greatest Expedition: I am sensible that Plans of Publick Utility, however Promising and pleasing they may be on their first Appearance, soon grow languid, unless it be the Particular Business of some man or set of men to urge them foward. This may be said to be my duty in the present instance; but as I cannot be every where, I must apply for support to Gentlemen of your character and zeal for the service of their Country, requesting in the most ernest manncr, you will urge your Friends & Fellow Citizens to become Proprietors of this Bank Stock. Every Subscriber will find his own Interest bencfitted, in proportion to the capital he deposites. And I dare say few will find the other parts of their Fortunes, to yield them so large or so certain an income as the Stock they have in the Bank. And at the same time, they will have the Satisfaction to be Con- sidered for Ever, as promoters of an Institution, which has been found beneficial to other Countries, and inevitably must be so in the high- est degree to this. An institution that most probably will continue as long as the United States, and that will probably become as usefull to commerce & agriculture in the days of Peace, as it must be to Govern- ment during the War. The Capital proposed is but small, when the Extent & Riches of the United States are considered, but when put in Motion, the Benefits flow- ing froni it will be so perceptible, that all difficulty about Encroasing the Capital will vanish, And we shall only have to Appeal to the interest of Mankind, which in most cases will do more than Patriotism—but there have been, and will continue to be instances where Interests have been sacrificed to Patriotism, and in that belief, I ask you to devote some of your time to Promote this infant Plan, which, as it gathers Strength, may in the end, prove the means of saving the Liberties, Lives and property of the Virtuous part of America. My good opinion of you is an excuse for giving you this interruption. I am Sir, Your most Obedt. Sorvt." June llth MESSAGE FIIOM THE SENATE, by Mr. Harrison, informing the II. of Del- gates that they had agreed to the Resolution of the 2nd June, viz— House of "Resolved that his Excellency the Governour be desired to call for the Delegates immediate Assistance of Brigadier General Morgan, to take the Com- mand of such Volunteers, Militia or others, as he may be able, Speedily
Page 155
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 155 to embody and march to join the Army under the command of the 1781. Honble. Major General Marquis la Lafayette; that this Assembly have June llth the utmost confidence in the active exertions of General Morgan in the Gen. Morgan present emergency; and that the Governour do transmit to the said General so many proper Commissions as may be necessary for the Field Officers, Captains, Subalterns and others to be by him appointed: And the said resolution being read a second time, was, on the question put thereupon agreed to by the House— Ordered that Mr. Henry do carry the Resolution to the Senate and desire their concurrence." JOHN BECKLEY C. h. D. Resolution calling upon the Commercial Agent to purchase, without June llth delay, such arms, ammunition and Stores, as are needed, and pledging House of the resources of the State for the prompt payment for the same— Delegates Agreed to by the Senate—June 13th. Gilbert Pielee gives receipt to Col: John Crappee, for Three Thousand June llth Pounds, paper money, on account, for materials purchased for the "Dili- gence" Galley, by said Crappee &c. B. ED: JOEL, M.viu. LT: INTY. TO COLO. Wii. NELSON. "Sir, In obedience to your orders, I marched at 10, last Evening, with Major Redman, and a party of mounted Volluntrs. for Richmond County, to seize on the suspected persons and deserters. After taking one Tiffie, a most notorious promoter of sedition, I proceeded to the house of Faun- tleroy Die, who had last week, assembled a party of Torys, and entered into an engagement, sooner to die than perform their tour of duty: on surrounding the house, I found a party of men in the loft, who on being sumoned to surrender, call'd out, "Come on, we will have life for life by God—We have arms plenty"—but on my giving orders for the house to be fired, if they did not submit, they call'd out for quarter & gave up— They were the Sons of old Die (who is gone off, suppos'd to the Enemy) and one Wilson, a deserter from the Eighteen months men—they had their Musketts loaded, & Bayonets fixt in Bed with them. inclosed is a return* of the rest we have apprehended & the causes for that step— These men have in open contempt to the laws of their Country, bid defiance to their County Lieut: & held constant meetings of the disaf- fected. Old Die is suppos'd by the neighbours to have gone to the Enemy, in order to bring up a vessel to plunder the County. I am your Obt." June 12th * Not found. Leeds
Page 156
156 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Resolution passed, desiring the Executive to purchase for Genl: June 12th Edward Stephens, an elegant Gelding, to replace the one lost by him in House of the battle of Guilford Court house—Also "a set of furniture."* Delegates June 13th GEO: RICE TO CAPT: HENRY YOUNG. Barracks, Upon hearing there were some public stores hid in the woods near mar e . Benm>tt Henderson's, he at once procured a wagon and has recov- ered three loads, cheifly powder — This is much exposed, the casks being open — has stored it in the house in which he lives for security, but begs it be sent for, as he is afraid even "to have a candle in the room." June 13th MAJOR JOHN PRYOR COM: GENL. M. STORES, TO COL: DAVIES, at Staunton. Charlottes- On account of the large reinforcements of Riflemen which have, and 6 are to join the Marquis, it will be necessary largely to increase the sup- ply of loose Ammunition—Asks, that he will at once send down one thousand weight of the best powder, and fifteen hundred of lead—The latter article exceedingly scarce—He has sent out "by Expresses to every probable House, within 40 miles extent along the S. W. Mountains, to collect what can be found in the windowsf and elsewhere." The powder was sent off by mistake of the Conductor of Mil: Stores—The want of Musket and Cannon ammunition will be much felt, by reason of the stoppage of the Laboratories—That at Bedford is "of the first importance, as the Operations of Genl: Greene, entirely depend upon its supplies." Since the arrest of Capt: Irish it had been discontinued, but he has sent Capt: Grear up to "undertake the business" there—He has written and complained until he is tired, of the importance of sending to the mines for lead—He now sends himself a person to bring a supply, Some for New London, Stanton, and for Winchester, where he proposes to establish a Magazine and Laboratory. He is informed, the powder at Seven Islands was destroyed by the enemy on Saturday last; but thinks some must have been saved, as he had sent down on Thursday twenty men of the Buckingham Militia under Officers to remove it—Concludes "The Enemy now lay at Elk Island—Some of their Lt. Troops about the Bird Ordy.—Our army lays at Mr. Allegries—I think we shall touch them up tomorrow—pray dis- patch the powder & lead." * Out-fit for the horse. •)• Lead was used in fixing the panes of glass in the Sashes at this date & before the introduction of the use of Putty. ,
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 157
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 157 MAJOR J. PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. June 14th Since writing last night so urgently in regard to the want of powder Charlottes- and lead, he has found a supply of the former, but the latter "amazingly wanted in camp"; and hopes not a moment of time will be lost in send- ing it—concludes—"It seems the Enemy are moving down—our army pretty strong, and after them in high spirits—pray God they may over- take them, I think a good acct. may be rendered of them. The Mar- quis is very desirous of ascertaining the losses that have been sustained" in the moving stores &c &c. RICHD. EASTON TO BRIG: GENL: MORGAN. Junel4th He is frequently called upon to furnish provisions and forage for the Winchester Post at this place, but the people not being willing to sell what they have at the low prices fixed by the last act of Assembly is at a loss what to do—The business cannot be carried on without money, of which he has never been furnished "with one shilling by the Publick"—He has been obliged to advance cash for driving cattle &c—Mr. John Thomas, he hears has a large sum of the Public money in his hands—With this he can furnish all the supplies nceded. MAJOR LANOBORNE, AID DE CAMP TO MARQUIS DE LE LAFAYETTE & June 14th Q. M. GENL &c. TO MAJOR RICHD: CLAIBORNE—(Extract.) "Unless Sir you furnish the Wagons &c that you promised, it will be. impossible to move the Army. We now shall advance nearly the route the enemy has been—they have destroyed all our Stores, and broke up our magazines, and unless we can have Wagons sufficient to supply the Army, thirty or forty miles off, we shall be destitute of every necessary. I request that you will not fail sending the Wagons without delay, other- wise the whole blame will fall on you, on you only I have the least hope." "Whereas the irregular manner in which the Quarter Master's Depart- June 14th ment for the State of Virginia has hitherto been conducted, has been attended with many delays and inconveniences, both to the people and to the public service: and it being expedient that a ncw disposition should be made to remove these difficulties agreable to the late system for the Quarter Masters Department, established by Congress; and the duties of the Officers to be employed, and their districts and posts be more clearly understood—it is therefore proposed—
Page 158
158 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. That there be nine Assistant deputy Quarter Masters, who shall have June 14th charge of the principle posts to be established in the State, as the gov- erning places to which the stores and supplies are to be drawn, and that a certain District be given to each— That as the great line of Communication from Philadelphia to the Southern Army through this State, will be from Alexandria to some part of Staunton or Dan Rivers, there be one principle post at Alexan- dria, one at Fredericksburg, one at Carter's Ferry on James River, and onc at some convenient place on Dan or Staunton which will be gov- erned by the navigation up the river Dan. That as Richmond is the Seat of Government, and a place where the principal Factories for the Southern Department are established, it be a principle post. Williamsburg, being a place where the supplies from the lower Coun- ties should be collected, it is necessary to establish it as a principle post, for that purpose. That Charlottesville, be continued as a principle post for the accom- modation of the Convention Troops— Winchester, being a place where good Wagons and Horses, may be procured with great ease, that it be a principle post for that purpose, and to comprehend as much of that Country as supplies can be drawn from with convenience. That as Petersburg is allways a post of convenience, in case of inva- sions in the lower parts of the State, and a place to which the supplies from the Counties below the falls of Ronoke, and others convenient for the navigation of the Appomattox River should be collected, that it be held a principle post— That the District of Alexandria comprehend the Counties of— •Fairfax, Prince William, London— The District of Fredericksburg, the Counties of Northumberland Fauquier Lancaster Spotsylvania Richmond Caroline Westmoreland King & Queen King George, Essex Stafford— Middlesex The District of Carter's Ferry, the Counties of Louisa Prince Edward— Goochland Powhatan Cumberland Buckingham
Page 159
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 159 The District of the Rivers, Dan & Stanton, the Counties of 1781. Mecklinburg Hallifax June 14th Lunenburg Pittsylvania Charlotte Henry, Bedford The District of Richmond, the Counties of— Hanover New Kent, Henrico Charles City King William Chesterfield— The District of Williamsburg, the Counties of James City Norfolk Warwick Nansemond Elizabeth City Isle of Wyght York. Northampton Gloucester' Accomack. Princess Ann. The District of Charlottesville, the Counties of Culpeper Fluvannah Orange Amherst Albemarle Augusta. The District of Petersburg, the Counties of Surry Brunswick Prince George, Grc'enesvillo Dinwiddie Amelia— Southampton Sussex That there be so many depending posts within the different Districts, as shall be found necessary for the purpose of collecting supplies, and that the direction be given to a Store Keeper. That it is expected the supplies beyond the blue Ridge, to the South- ward of the Winchester District, are used for the support of the Troops in that Quarter, and are under the direction of proper persons, they are omitted in this arrangement—but should it be found necessary hereafter to comprehend them, they will be added to one or more of the districts already pointed out, or formed into other districts as may be convenient. That as the supplies within the districts are to come from the Coun- ties forming them in proper proportions, It is proposed that the Assist- ant Deputy Quarter Masters for the District shall be authorized by the Executive, to call on the Civil authoritjr to furnish them from time to time, with the necessary means of transportation for the supplies com- ing from each respective County, so that each County will regularly do its own Separate duty— That the transportation from onc post to another, shall be made by the public Wagons or Boats, as far as we shall have them to answer the purpose—and that where we shall want the aid of private property, the
Page 160
160 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Quarter Master from whose district the stores are to go, in the first June 14th instance, shall have power to call on the civil authority within the dis- trict, for such aid; and that the private Wagons or Boats so furnished, shall be discharged at the next post, from whence the stores arc to be fowarded, by the same means from that district—timely information being given from post to post, by the Quarter Masters, of the coming of such a number of Boats or Wagons— This is a system proposed in consequence of our having experienced the good effects of Similar ones to the northward, both in public and private points of view. EDWARD CARRINGTON, D. Q. M. Genl: for the S. Army. 1st January 1781. RICHARD CLAIBORNE, D. Q. Mr. S. Virginia— His Excellency Governor Jefferson & Council.* February 15th 1781. An Order from Colo. Carrington advising the approach of the Army under the Command of Lord Cornwallace to Boyd's ferry and the neces- sity of sending all the heavy Baggage of General Greene's Army to Prince Edward Court house, rendered an alteration in the arrangement, indispensable. Capt: Charles Russell is therefore retired to Prince Edward Court house, and take charge of the Stores—To the post of Prince Edward Court house are given the Counties of Prince Edward, Charlotte. Lunenburg. Mccklinburg, Bedford—which a'ro to be taken from the District of Carter's ferry and Boyd's ferry— March l1th 1781. The Enemy having retired from Dan river, Mr. Wm. McCraw is appointed to that Station, and to keep his principal post at Wimbishes Stores in Peytonsburg. April 2d 1781. The Prisoners having marched to Winchester from Charlottesville> that place is to be discontinued as a principal post: the Counties of Albe- marle, Orange, Fluvannah, Amherst & Augusta to bo given to Carter's Ferry; and the County of Culpeper to Fredericksburg District—Capt: Rice to settle his accounts as soon as possible— *This Document is a Copy of the original, not elsewhere found; together with the several alterations made at different dates, consequent upon a change in the events of the war. This "Plan," was suggested January 1st 1781, and should havebeon placed ut that date; but that connected with it are to be found entries of other consequetive dates, and occurrences, down to June 14th 1781: hence this is properly the date of the Copy.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 161
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 161 May 10th 1781. 1781. The honorable Major Genl: Baron Steuben, having directed that Char- June 14th lottesvillo be the place of General Rendezvous, for the equipment of the Troops now raising in this State for the Continental service, and as a largo number of Wagons, horses & drivers, are to be procured for the Army under the Command of the Marquis de la Fayette, makes it neces- sary that it again be established a principal post; Capt: Rice is restored to the full possession of his former District, and to be stationed at that place as Assistant Deputy Qr. Master— Capt: Charles Russell being appointed to superintend the receiving & delivery of the stores, which are to be collected at Albemarlo Old Court house, as a place of security from the incursions of the Enemy, the post of Prince Edward Courthouse, which was under his direction is discontinued, and the Counties comprehended with it, are annexed to their original districts of the Rivers Dan & Stanton & Carter's ferry on James River— The Enemy having taken possession of the post of Petersburg, and made prisoner Capt: Holmes, who was Assistant Deputy Quarter Master at that place, the District is discontinued, and the Counties are to be annexed to the adjoining districts, as may hereafter, be found con- venient. Mr. Daniel Teasdell, Clerk to Capt: Holmes, is to settle the accounts as soon as possible— 14th June 1781. The Enemy having got possession of the lower parts of the State and the public stores being directed to be sent beyond the Mountains, that Btaunton in Augusta be a principal post for that purpose, and to influ- ence the Counties of Augusta, Rockingham, Rockbridge and Greenbrier, and the direction of it be given to Capt Thomas Hamilton. This altera- tion is agreeable to an order from Colo. Edward Carrington, Deputy Quarter Master General for the Southern Army, dated 23d May 1781. Final Action of the Genl: Assembly—on the motion made on the 12th June 16th June, "that the Executive be desired to present to Captain John Jouett House of an elegant sword, and pair of pistols, as a memorial of the high sense, Delegates which the General assembly entertain; of his activity, and enterprize in watching the motions of the Enemy's Cavalry on their late incursion to Charlottesville, and conveying to the Assembly timely information of their approach, whereby the designs of the Enemy were frustrated, and many valuable stores preserved." 21
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 162
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR JOHN PBYOR TO COLO. DAVIES, at Staunton. June 16th Charlottes- From the "amazing scarcity of musket cartridges in Camp" the Mar- quis has requested him to erect at this place a temporary Laboratory— To do this he detains "the moulds, paper, formers &c" also some strag- glers of the State Garrison Regt. lately employed at Hendersons, who will be put to work at once—Hopes to collect "a considerable quantity of lead from the windows"—has about one hundred pounds which he got "at & near this"—What is collected below he has ordered to Camp for the Riflemen—He has again sent to the mines for a supply, and has written to Colo. Calloway, who lives near them to give his aid and to urge "all good citizens & friends to America" to render assistance "in transporting this important article"—He hears "our Army has moved down, low as the Bird Ordnry." but does not know where the Enemy are. June 16th BRIG: GENL: DANL: MORGAN, TO THE HON: SPEAKER OF THE H. OF DELEGATES. "Sir, Winchester I wrote you the other day that I gladly accepted the power the Honbo. the Assembly was pleased to invest me with, and at that time had no doubt it would be in my power to raise the volunteers requested: Some local circumstances have since happened, which have altered the face of affairs; this particular time of Harvest has operated much upon the people, otherwise not unwilling, and the inadequacy of the law to equip and provide for the Army, I am raising, made it necessary for me to call on the best aid I could possibly get—So circumstanced, I wrote to the Gentlemen* who I esteem of most influence, who were good enough to meet to-day, and I have the honour to enclose their delibera- tions: if the Assembly think proper to do anything effectual, I can only * The Gentlemen referred to were Maj: Genl Horatio Gates, Danl: Morgan—Col: \V. i. Darke, Major Nelson, John Smith Co. Lieut: of Frederick, Col: John Morrow of Berkeley, Col: David Kenedy of Frederick—Major Geo: Scott of Berkely, Capt: Fra: Willis Lt. Horse and Chas: M. Thurston—They resolved themselves into a • Convention" to consider of the most speedy and proper method of carrying out the late Act of Assembly empowering Genl: Morgan to raise velunteers &c &c— To this end, they recommended that Depots of supplies be established; pledge them- selves to aid in procuring all manner of "implements of war"; horsos, for the dra- goons, wagons and teams—recommend that Genl: Morgan be empowered to employ artificers, and that his Quarter Masters & Commissaries have full authority to exe- cute his Orders—In as much as the particular season of the year prevents the people from velunteering as they might otherwise do, they appeal to the Militia of Berkeley, Frederick, Hampshire, Loudon, Fauquier and Shenandoah, who are drafted to relieve those already in service, to join Morgan's- Corps—George Rootes Esqr chosen to wait upon the assembly to urge these measures to receive any further instructions, and to be the bearer of a letter from Genl: Morgan himself—
Page 163
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 163 say, my services are at my Country's command—To carry on the much desired scheme, I have been raising two Troops of Horse; but every man willing to serve has not a horse that could be accepted—horses therefore, and every implement of war must be provided for, and some effectual mode for paying the tradesmen employed. Majr. Nelson fell in here some little time ago to refit— I immediately employed tradesmen and have had all necessaries done for him—Some mode for their payment I hope will be provided for, and the money sent, as I stood liable therefor. I beg leave to inform the Assembly there are in this Town, materials and Artificers who can sup- ply very many implements of war, if they were employed—let me add, the situation is out of the way of surprize, and will be a sure assylum for a Store house of future utility— By the appointment of the Gentlemen who did me the favour to meet me here, and by my desire, Colo. Rootes has undertaken to deliver this: to him I refer you for any information the Honble the Assembly may farther want—his thorough acquaintance with the lower part of the valley, and his abilities to inform, will, 1 flatter myself render him use- full—from him you will collect the minutia, much better than I can inform you by way of letter. I have no doubt, but the Honble the Assembly will provide for his expenses and dispatch him with instructions to Sir, Your most obedient, humb Servant. 1781. June 16th GARRETT VANMETER Co LIEUT: TO "THE GOVERNOR OF VA. at Staunton." June 16th "Sir, In consequence of a letter I received sometime ago, from his Excel- Hampshire lency Governor Jefferson, relative to a late Insurrection in this County, I ordered out a Company of my militia as Mounted Infantry, together with Three Companies of Foot, as the Rioters had embodied themselves, and the numbers very considerably increased. On the approach of our men to the place where the rioters had assembled, they dispersed with precipitation—only a few surrendered, and a few taken prisoners. Sev- eral more of them have surrendered since: however the principal con- spirators, and a number of their deluded followers still keep out—I have inclosed a list of them from the best information I could procure, and humbly submit it to your Excellency's pleasure what steps will now be proper to take with them—the first nineteen on the list seems by all accounts to be the most daring. Robert Smith, Thomas Stacey and Michael Boulger are the principal conspirators. Those who were taken, and surrendered, to the number. of Forty two, have been examined before the County Court, and three of them are Ordered to have a further trial—the greatest part of the rest, bound over to be Indicted at
Page 164
164 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. our next Grand Jury Court, and a few acquitted—these last were cheifly June 16th Deserters whom I have sent to join the Army— I presume your Excellency will think it necessary to Issue a Commis- sion of Oyer and Terminer, for the Trial of those who are ruled to a further Trial, agreeable to the Act of Assembly of October 1780—I shall continue the Company of Mounted Infantry some time longer in service, as I expect they will apprehend the Cheif of those who yet stay out. For further particulars, I refer your Excellency to the bearer Mr. Andrew Wood row. I am very respectfully, Your very obedt Servant." June 16th MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO THE HONBLE DELEGATES. SPEAKER OF THE H. OF "Sir, Staunton The situation to which the Quarter Master's department, in the Continental line of this State is reduced, and the fatal consequences which may attend a further delay, induces me to make a representation of it to you, & to request that you will be pleased to submit it to the consideration of the Hon: House of Delegates. The want of money and the loss of credit in consequence, has obliged me to decline all purchases & contracts on public account, & to request the Gentlemen engaged with me to do the same, so that at present there is a total stop put to business throughout the State—My prospects, until the Enemy got possession of the lower counties & destroyed the arrange- ment which I had made, were good, because I had considerable warrants from the Governor on the Treasury, & upon the faith of my promises, founded on them, procured large supplies, & induced the people to give their aid; but now there is such a visible alteration, that few or none will trust or serve us—Indeed, I am so disappointed in the support I expected, that when I propose a contract I cannot with the least confi- dence promise a single person when he shall be paid. I have a long time since, given the Quarter Master General & the Commanding Generals in this State, full information respecting the evils which have happened, & the indispensable necessity of adopting some mode; or furnishing me the means to prevent them; but I have had no assistance, except from the Government of Virginia, nor do I expect any other. In justice to myself therefore, & to enable me to answer the demands that are made, I beg leave to inform you Sir, that your atten- tion was never so necessary towards the department, as at this time. If money cannot be had to answer the immediate purposes, let some plan be fallen on, either by enforcing the laws that are already past, or by fixing upon something new, that will make up the deficiency—
Page 165
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 165 It is with much concern, that I find myself obliged to repeat the 1781. defect in the number of Wagons required by the law of October Session, June 16th for Continental purposes; for the want of these, to.foward provisions & stores, & to answer the purposes of the Southern Army, for which they were designed, I have been obliged to hire & keep engaged in that busi- ness, the means of transportation which should have been reserved for the use of the Army among us. The loss of them has been attended with such an additional expence, that it has been one principal means of my inability to comply with the requisitions made by Major General, the Baron Steuben & Major General, the Marquis do la Fayette, Com- manding Generals in the State, for the same articles—Had I the money which has been expended to make up the deficiency, I should now have it in my power to supply the Army, without delay, as there are a num- ber of Waggons and teams to be had in this part of the Country, at a moment's warning; but as I am destitute of the money to induce them to turn out, the consequence, I am afraid, will be bad to the Army, as you will find by the inclosed Copy of a letter from Major Langborn, Aid-de-Camp to the Marquis de la Fayette & Deputy Quarter Master Genl: to the Troops. As to any blame that may fall on me, as is observed by Major Langborn, respecting the Wagons required, I have ready & sufficient reasons to prove that I do not merit it. In addition to the wagons called for by the law, for Continental use, the Executive while in Office in Richmond, gave orders to the commis- sioners, to appoint a Deputy in each County, to collect the specifies, & that they should brigade all the wagons & carts within their respective Counties, & upon the application of the Continental Quarter Masters to call them into service in regular rotation; but I have been disappointed in this matter likewise, as the people in many instances have refused to conform to the plan. I inclose, for the more particular information of the House, Copies of the Governor's directions to the Commissioner—perhaps they may find it necessary that some such regulation should be passed into a Law, which will diffuse itself more generally & be better attended to— To enter into a detail of things generally, that respects the depart- ment, would take up more time than your discernment & decision wou'd require, therefore, Sir, I beg leave to ask, without money or credit, how am I to obtain the means of transportation, the necessary supplies of-For- age & Camp Equipage, the conveyances of dispatches, or to keep the persons already employ'd in their several stations? I beg leave to assure you Sir, that whatever yourself, with your Hon- arable House shall determine upon for the good of the public service, so far as respects the department in which I am engaged I will most cheer- fully join in the measures, and contribute to their success, with as much diligence & dispatch as possible— I have the honor to be &c &c."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 166
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. June 17th Accomack COL: GEO: CORBIN TO Gov: JEFFERSON. Since his last letter giving account of the state of affairs in the County, "matters wear a much better aspect"—For particulars, refers him to the bearer Capt: Abraham Outon, who goes to receive the com- mission mentioned in his late letter, which he hopes his Excellency will not refuse—Desires a commission also "for a young Gent: of the name of John Revell, who has purchased a whale boat and engaged his men for the same purpose" The filling up of these commissions will much oblige the friends of American Independence in his County. June 17th THOMAS SMITH, D. C. MIL: STORES TO COL: DAVIES, at Staunton. New London By direction of Major J. Pryor, he had gone to that place to reestab- lish the Laboratory, to meet the demands of the Southern Army; but finds the means of carrying out this very important design almost entirely wanting—Desires to be informed at once, whether ho can be supplied with Tin, Cartridge paper, and other necessary Military Stores from Staunton, so that he may immediately undertake the business— June 18th COL: WM. DAVIES TO THE EXECUTIVE. "Sir, Staunton As the Assembly at their last session requested that some plan for the establishment of the War Office, should be prepared for their con- sideration, I have taken the liberty to submit my thoughts on this sub- ject, to your honorable board, conceiving that from the nature of my present appointment, as well as from a constant experience for almost six years, in a variety of military departments, I might possibly be able to give some information respecting the duties of an office, which has military matters solely for its object. Should you agree with me in sen- timent, with respect to the propriety of the plan, I have now the honor to propose, I trust you will not think it amiss, to lay this representation before the Legislature, with such observations as you may judge it proper to make— It is evident that frequent examination, is the way to make men dili- gent as well as honest; without it, fraud and negligence would soon exhaust the riches of a country much more wealthy than ours—From this cause chiefly, originate the complaints which so generally prevail, of mismanagement in the several military departments. With an infi- nite variety of business on the hands of the Executive, it will always be impossible for them to attend to scrutinies of this kind; and of course they will never be able to obtain a just knowledge of the real state or
Page 167
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 167 application of the stores and resources of the country. This then is one 1781. of the great duties of the War Office, to prepare for the inspection of June 18th government, such documents as will enable them to form proper ideas of the state of the public supplies, and of the conduct of their servants in the discharge of the duties of their several appointments—For this pur- pose it is necessary that the Commissioner should by law be vested with an inquisitorial power, and have authority to demand from the dif- ferent military departments exact returns of their receipts and issues, and of all other matters incident to their offices, according to the nature of their respective employments— From the quarter Master General should be required, periodical returns of all the articles belonging to his department, such as teams, waggons, boats and the necessary appendages belonging to them: he should report at stated intervals, the quantity of forage collected by him or his agents in the different counties under the various laws, with the deficiencies still due: the places where the magazines are fixed, with the quantity, and kind in each. ho should render regular accounts of all his transfers and issues to Continental agents, or for Continental pur- poses. As matters stand at present, nobody knows the quantity of forage collected or issued, nor can it be ascertained when the State has furnished its quota of the Continental specific requisitions— Tho Forage of this Country is an article of great value, and of the utmost consequence to our operations; yet the distresses we are fre- quently reduced to, and the violence and depredations committed on the property of the inhabitants, are full proof of the want of management in that department, and the necessity of other arrangements than have heretofore been observed. Tho article of provision, is another matter of the greatest moment. Much has been wasted, much has been lost, apd a greal deal may have been misapplied. A large portion of what has been consumed, has been issued in so irregular a manner, and with such insufficient vouchers, as can never make the continent properly chargeable; nor has the person now at the head of the department, notwithstanding frequent applica- tions from the War Office, ever been able or willing to give any account of the state of his department, of the amount of his stores, the quanti- ties furnished by the counties, what have beon the issues, or what their application. These returns are absolutely necessary, and government can never judge without them, what parts of the State have complied with the law, nor when the State itself has furnished the quota of pro- vision required by Congress; nor indeed, can they otherwise, form any well founded opinion of the conduct of their Commissary; nor have they any check upon his application of the stores that pass through his hands. The Cloathing department is intimately connected with the comfort- able state of the troops in the field—•
Page 168
168 • CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. To form a just idea of their situation, tho Sub, or State Cloathicr June 18th should make frequent returns to the War Office, of all that ho receives, and all that ho issues, distinguishing the supplies furnished by the Con- tinent, from those by tho State, and specifying also tho articles sent in from tho Counties, and what may still be due from them— Returns should be frequently required from tho Commissary of Mili- tary Stores, who should also superintend the laboratory and magazines of munition, and should pay particular attention to the recovery of arms, occasionally lent to the Continent: a matter of considerable moment to the safety of the State. As tho invasion law has authorized the impressment and appropria- tion of a variety of articles within some one of tho before-mentioned departments, which are paid for by tho State, altho' of right chargeable to the continent, it is requisite that returns of these articles should be made, if possible, from the Auditor's Office, where they have been set- tled, that they may be entered upon the returns, and included as part of the quota furnished by the State to the Continent—This is the more necessary, as it will, at the same time furnish government with a gene- ral view of the great abuses practised under this law, and enable them to put a stop to them. To the Commissioner of War, should also be allotted the duties of the Adjutant General's department— All orders from the Executive tho different military departments should issue thro' this office, and be recorded in it. This regulation, of itself would be productive of great good effects, and will prevent much contradiction and confusion in Orders, which have, and always will fol- low, from any other arrangement—In this office should be kept a roster for the regulation of militia duty thro' the State—Hero should be made stated returns of the strength of the Virginia Continental line, of the strength of tho militia in the several counties, with the number and con- dition of their arms and accoutrements—Hero should be lodged discrip- tive lists of the new levies from the Counties respectively, and of all deserters from the Army belonging to the State, as well as the militia delinquents condemned to six months service. In this office too, should be registered the names and rank of the mili- tia Officers, and the rank roll of the Continentals, that warrants may be issued without delay, upon the occurrence of vacancies, agreeably to tho resolutions of Congress—Hero should be lodged, returns from the proper Officers in the different Counties, of the specifies raised in their respective Counties, and delivered by them to the Orders of the differ- ent departments under the direction of tho quarter masters, Commissa- ries. and Commercial Agent. It should be the Commissioner's duty, to prepare the estimates of military supplies, for the consideration, and final Order of the Executive, and if approved, communicate them to the Com- mercial Agent, that the purchase may be made. Here should be lodged,
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 169
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 169 all plans for public military works, which may be projected by the ongi- 1781. neer or others, and approved by the Executive—The Commissioner June 18th should attend to the establishment of Magazines, to the regularity of issues of every kind, and pay the greatest attention to economy in the different departments under his inspection—Ho should at all times be responsible to the Executive for his conduct, and controulable by them; yet it will be wrong to subject him to the delay of taking their opinion in every step ho may think necessary for the public good, and of having their previous approbation as a prerequisite, before he can do any thing, as is the case at preset. It is sufficient that the Executive can interfere when they please, and give him such orders as they think proper. A prudent Commissioner however, will, for his own security crave their advice and directions on every matter of importance in his department: the officer should be displaced that would not—It should also be the Com- missioners duty to prepare all the various returns from the different departments beforomentioned, and digest them into general abstracts, that the Legislature may at every session, be furnished with a compre- hensive view of the strength of the country, and of the State, applica- tion and amount-of the supplies of every kind that may be raised. A War Office thus constituted may be of essential service to the State: upon its present footing, it has not the power to be of much use—For this variety of business, the Commissioner should be a man of known fidelity to his Country, diligent and attentive to his duty, and of a stock of knowledge acquired from actual experience in military arrangements-. His business will be constant, difficult and extensive; it will, however, if properly executed, be found to be economical, satisfactory and instruc- tive—A few clerks will be necessary, with one who should be a first clerk or kind of Secretary, dictating letters, and doing the ordinary duties of the office, should unavoidable necessity or urgent public busi- ness occasion the Commissioner to be absent for a short time. A reasonable compensation for the services, the Assembly will cheer- fully bestow; and when the utility of this arrangement is seen, for which the course of a year will probably be sufficient, there cannot be a doubt of their liberality in making the emoluments bear a proportion to the labors of the office, and the advantages derived to the public. I have the honor to be Sir with the highest respect , Your most obedient and very humble servant." "At a General Court Martial, held at Leeds Town, by order of Col: JunelSth Wm. Nelson, Commandant, the 18th day of June 1781, for the Trial of Leeds Town Fauntleroy Dye, charg'd with aiding and assisting the Enemies of this Commonwealth during an invasion, with encouraging Desertion from the Army, with dissuading and discouraging the militia from opposing the Enemy and for giving Intelligence to the Enemy, contrary to an Act 22
Page 170
170 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. of Assembly passed in May Session 1780, entitled "an Act for giving June 18th further Powers to the Governor and Council, and for other Purposes" and also for Sundry other crimes and misdemeanors—" Major Redmann President Major Nelson, Lieut: Robertson Capt: Edwards, Lieut: Jackson Capt Harrison Lieut: Kelsick Capt: Mitchell Lieut Hungerford Members of the Court Capt: Monroe Ensign Butler Capt: Harper Ensign Moore Lieut: Berkeley Ensign Deane Richard Parker, Judge Advocate— After the Examination of numerous witnesses for and against the accused and due consideration of the Testimony the court unanimously declared him guilty, and "decreed and ordered that the said Fauntleroy Dye be confined and imprisoned during the continuance of the .present war, without Bail or main prize"—Which sentence was signed by Vin- cent Redman Maj: Prest. and approved by WM. NELSON Colo. Commandant." June 18th ACCOUNT OF THE CAPTURE of a schooner called the "Hero's Revenge" by a Baltimore armed vessel, without resistance on the part of the former. Her crew deserted the vessel, and with thoir arms escaped to the shore—The gentlemen of the county went in pursuit, and after a chase of twenty miles, came up with and captured the whole of them— This schooner had been taken from one Hughs of Gloucester Co., by the Enemy and it appeared he had volunteered on board with them to repair his loss—The Commander is one Robert Bulfell Capro, who lately had escaped from Powhatan Co House Jail—most of the Prisoners were Deserters from the American Army—The negroes found and taken with them, belonged to John Page Esq, Isaac Smith of Accomac, to gen- tlemen in Somerset Co. Md: to Mr. Tayloe of Richmond and to Mrs. Mary Webb of Essex Co. The writer of this account requests of the Executive instructions as to how he shall dispose of tho prisoners, they being composed of desert- ers, British and negroes.
Page 171
CALENDAK OF STATE PAPERS. 171 MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO THE HON: SPEAKER OF THE ASSEMBLY. Sir, Since writing my Letter to you, of the 16th I find it necessary to beg your Attention to some things which require to be done without delay. The Post of Staunton is destitute of Forage & Provisions—in conse- quence of which, both men & horses in the service of the public, that are stationed here, are suffering much. I Tiave made application to the Commissioner of the provision Law of Augusta County, but cannot obtain any thing—He informs mo that all the Specifies are consumed, & that the people will not part with their property upon his promises. I have likewise written to the County Commissioners of Rockbridge, Rockingham, & Greenbrier, who should have been long since in office, but am informed that no such persons are appointed; neither can I learn that there is either provisions or forage to be had, of any consequence, in those counties—As it is of great importance, that the appointments of the Commissioners shuld be complete throughout the State, as there are many wanting, perhaps the honblo the Gentlemen of the House of Assembly will be so obliging as to see that it is done, when they return from the present Session—And as forage & provisions for the consump- tion of this Post cannot be procured by any power or means which I am possessed of, I beg that some way may be adopted to enable me to obtain an immediate supply. I beg leave likewise Sir, to mention again the application of Maj: Langborne for wagons, to be kept as a moving magazine; and my great anxiety that they should be procured as soon as possible—At least fifty will be necessary—Eleven for the ammunition—Nine for the Quarter Mastr. Stores—fifteen for the Forage Master—and Fifteen for the Com- missary—Others should be had in different parts of the country to col- lect supplies as the Commissioners or Continental Q. Mast. may require. You must be well informed Sir, that there are wagons, Provisions & Forage to be had in the Country in the greatest plenty, so that nothing is wanted, but ways & means to obtain them. I have the honor to be Sir, With the highest Esteem & respect &c." 1781. June 18th Staunton EALPH WORMLEY Jtm: TO MESSRS. WALKER & DENIRON Portsmouth. Juneisth "Gentlemen. We have waited here for the return of the Swift, till we can, with propriety wait no longer. We are ourselves tired, and have tired all our friends—the anxiety, uneasiness and inconveniences we have labored under, are inexpressible; at length we have determined to leave this place in search of you. If we should miss you, impute it not to
Page 172
172 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. design: we are under a necessity of going: the garrison even, does not June 18th approve of our long continuance, and the government may likewise cen- sure us when we do not deserve censure, for remaining here so long. The day you went away, we found your cruize wou'd be of none effect, for a letter came up by some of Mr. Wormeley's negroes to Mr. Ross' Agent, which acquainted us, that the schooner privateer was the Sur- prize Capt: Ross, the owncr Mr. Frederic Rhinelander of New York: he sailed for N. York 9th .inst:—if we should miss you, whatever expences you incur shall be paid; if you should be landed at Hampton, hire homes there to York, from York to young Mr. Lewis' & in Mr. Wormeley's name desire him to lend you his chair & horses to Rosegill, which we are sure he will do—in taking the step we do, we are unhappy; but perhaps you may be gone to New York, and we might be detained here a month, or ordered away—in short we are so distressed, that we judge the step we take to be the properest, & that there is every proba- bility of you being within the Capes, of our meeting with you in Hamp- ton Road, or in the bay. we are under the greatest & heaviest concern gentlemen, Your most obdt. Servant "Mr. Wormeley has written to Capt: Graves concerning you, and hopes no difficulties will overtake you, by our going away, even if we miss you, he hath spoken to Colo. Hamilton concerning you, should you come up to Portsmouth." June 18th DAVID Ross TO PATRICK HENRY ESQR. Staunton. "Sir, Pt. of Fork I take the liberty of recommending the bearer James Rice to your notice. he is one of ten Pensylvania Waggoners, that brought arms from Philadelphia to this place, and were, by contradictory orders of our Gen- eral Officers, detained 16 days after their arrival at Fredericksburg— this detention, he alledges was the cause of himself & two others being taken by Colo. Tarlton, by which means they lost their waggons & teams & some other property, and thinks it highly reasonable that the Assembly should consider his case & render him such relief as they think proper—From motives of humanity & justice you'll do him all the ser- vice in your power. You have no doubt heard of our proceedings at this place—We have obtained no great credit, & suffd. very great loss—I have suffered greatly. I am trying to get my plantations in the way of making a little bread— the whole Army were encampt on my Estate & subsisted upon it whilst here, besides this they destroyed every thing in their power—I shall be at Staunton in a few days & have much to say to you, in the mean- time I am Sir, You most humble Servant."
Page 173
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 173 ABRAHAM PBNN Co. LIEUT. TO HON: WM. FLEMING,* Staunton. 1781. June 18th Has received his by Express, and regrets so many of the militia of Henry Co. his county are called out at this important season—but the enemy he supposes will not wait "till we sow or reap"—Has no arms having sent one hundred with the men to Genl: Greene, and another hundred with those who went to Genl: Lawson—and desires to know whether ho shall send the men unarmed, and whether they they can be furnished below— An Express has just arrived from Baron Steuben calling for men, but he is at a loss how to obey the order—A number of delinquents, condemned to six months service in the regular army are at large, impeding the march of others—Having no Jail in which to confine them, asks for instructions to have them and deserters arrested by mounted patrols and carried to Camp; the latter to be credited with a "Tour of Duty" on account of this service. Ho thinks by this means, he may "get rid of those Dastardly fellows who are a burden to us." MICHAEL JAMES TO BEV: RANDOLPH ESQR. at Richmond. He has examined the condition of the Boat "Liberty," and finds her in a much better condition than he expected—Expects to have her ready for service in a few weeks. The Boat "Patriot" sailed for Portsmouth on the twelfth. June 19th Hampton Sampson Mathews, magistrate for Augusta County, certifies, that he June 19th has administered "the oaths prescribed by Law to be taken by a privy Staunton Councillor" to Samuel McDowell Esqr. Sampson Mathews, a magistrate for Augusta County, certifies that he June 19th has administered "the Oaths prescribed by Law, to be taken by a Gov- Staunton ernor" unto Thomas Nelson junr. Esquire "—also to Saml: Hardy Esqr:, as member of the Privy Council. *Colo. Wm. Fleming of Botetourt as oldest & presiding member of the Council acted as Governor until Genl: Nelson was chosen.
Page 174
174 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. J. PEYTON TO GENL: WEEDON pr: Majr. Joel. June 19th "Dear Sir, Gloucester By Majr. Joel I rec'd your favor of the 15th and shou'd be happy in being able to render that Gentleman any assistance in the present or any future occasion—you must have been misinform'd as to the enemy taking post on Gwyn's Island—Some little time past the Bonetta was stationed off the mouth of Peanetank, with 'three other smaller Vessels—they landed about 50 men, who carried off three Beeves—upon my being inform'd of it, sent on some militia & drove all the Stock to the main; since have not heard of their being there. Some of their vessels are continually in the mouth of that river and I am con- vinced from many circumstances, hold a correspondence with one or more of the inhabitants of Gwyn's Island and Middlesex. to the latter their boats are frequently seen to pass and repass. the inhabitants in general disaffected—You have, (I dont doubt) heard of the enemy plun- dering Wormley, Grimes, Robinson, and the inhabitants of Urbanna— I say fortunately, for really the circumstances are something extraor. dinary. After plundering the houses of Wormley & Robinson, they, a few days passed, with some other Tories assembled at Grimes', I sup- pose to condole, or rather consult a plan of recovery. that night the enemy went seven or eight miles up a very narrow River, and plundered them a second time, without landing at any other house. Since, I am told they obtained a flag, of the County Lt:, went down to Portsmouth, was rec'd as friends, sent back in a sixteen gun Brig, with directions to take their property wherever found. I am further told, after laying in provisions &c proceeded in quest of the plunderers: this I think worthy of notice. nothing has happened in this county except a number of negroes going to them—nothing I believe has saved us from sharing the fate of the Tories but the vigilence of our Guards. have only to con- clude, I am respectfully, Dear Sir, your obedt Hble Servt." June 19th COURT MARTIAL held for the trial of Edward Wright, charged with the like offences, and as being concerned with Fauntleroy Dye. Leeds Town The court composed of the same Officers as those recorded in the trial of Dye. The accused found guilty and sentenced to imprisonment during the continuance of the war without bail &c.
Page 175
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 175 COLO. JOHN TAYLOR TO THOS: NELSON JUR: GOVERNOR &c. "Sir, By the command of General Spotswood, I am to make several applications to the Executive respecting the Legions raising for the defence of this State. The General, long since furnished the Commercial Agent with an abstract of the Cloathing and equipments necessary to be procured, but is not yet informed of the progress made therein—ho bid mo urge the great utility of having these in the progress of the recruiting business, as a few well dressed Legionaries would tempt others into the Corps—with respect*to the equipments, caps are indispensably necessary to the whole corps, not only as the infantry in legions are occasinally to act mounted, but also to keep up an uniformity with the Cavalry. In the form of these caps, ho would wish them to be some- what of a conical shape, and each to be covered with a slip of bears- skin: this would so add apparently to the stature of tho men, as to deceive the eye of an Enemy, and probably draw their shott, and strokes, too high to do execution. Another matter, which may appear trivial, tho' is really of considera- ble importance, which he bid me press, was tho procuring of a plume for each Legionary. the allurements of show, are more efficatious in tho procuring of recruits, than any solid advantages, and such an ornament, the price of which is inconsiderable, will he thinks be really an economy on this score—besides it will give his Corps a martial look, which may not want its impression on an Enemy in the day of Battle—he would wish these plumos to be made of black feathers with a white tuft at tho top, to Keep up an uniformity with tho cockade." The General also wants two hundred pair of boots—two French horns first and second, four clarionets, one Bassoon and one "Houtboy," as necessary to the "harmony and discipline" of the corps—He hopes measures have been duly taken to procure the arms for the cavalry—So far, the Officers have been very successful in recruiting, having secured about two hundred men "for the war"—Those enlisted are anxious to receive their bounty money, and he urges the payment of this as an inducement to others to join—He is ready to give his Excellency any verbal information required in regard to the prospects of the corps, and is particularly anxious to forward tho business, so as "to go below and seize tho present favorable crisis for recruiting"—In conclusion, he has only to apply to his Excellency for tho Commissions of tho Field Offi- cers, for Genl: Spotswoods, and for the requisite number of blanks, for the subalterns &c. 1781. Junc 19th Staunton The Executive urged by Joint Resolution, to use every means to make June 20th remittances to the Delegates in Congress, for their private allowances, General either by sending them Tobacco and Hemp, or by adopting such other Assembly means as they may see fit.
Page 176
176 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. June 20th Urban na JAMES MILLS TO ARCHIBALD RITCHIE at Tappahnk. "Dear Sir," I have had no opportunity of writing you since my last, or I shou'd not have omitted, convinc'd as I am of your real regard for us, tho' very sloly, yet I think 1 have mended every day since I last wrote, this excepted, by tho loss of my last nights sleep, occasioned by Genl: Weeden's Aid do Cam, and a Capt: Munro—they lodged with mo and went early this morning to pino top, for which service tho pressed horses from Mr. Wormeley and left there's, so that I doubt they'l be back. When we meet, we will talk these matters'over. they greatly condemn our sending a Flag &c—Mr. Probant tells mo you saw the letter ho brought down for S. F. ho is not returned. puts me to a great loss how to answer—I understand Carre wants a supply of money. at this Inst: I am not master of 50 Dollars—I understand when he was in Rich- mond Goal, ho was supplied on his draft, that it was honour'd—If you think it prudent, I will risque 2 or £300, and beg you'l advance it. I will repay it directly when I hear, but I wou'd not choose to undergoe any suspicion, as I mean only to assist prisoners in distress—I can't explain my meaning otherways, and wish I had more in my power—Bo their intention what it will, I greatly rejoice in your happy escape from Depredations and further fears, tho' I can't help thinking, but their design was plunder, for a Brig has been committing, for three days past every horrid scene of cruelty, down this River and all up Pianetank—I just hear they have carried Coll: Churchhill off with them (in anger for being fired on) I received Mr. Beverly's letters safe, and only wait the return of our Friends, to bless my eyes onco more, with the sight of you all—indeed I long for it more than ever—excuse incorrectness, for I am greatly hurried, as the Aid do Camp is just come to the door wth. Ander- son their prisoner. he once lived in Essex. Believe me with the greatest affection Ever Yours &c." "Your hhead Tobo is safe out at Mr. Roan's house—was moved before." June 21st Joint Resolution passed, desiring the Executive to take such steps, by General offering a pardon or otherwise, as may effectually suppress certain Assembly "Insurgents and their associates in the Western and Northwestern Frontiers &c. For "reforming Clark's and Crockett's regiments, and Slaughter's Corps." Calling to account, all* Officers, Agents, Commissaries, Quarter Mas- ters and Contractors, or other persons concerned in the disbursements of public monies in the Western Country, belonging to Virginia, for
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 177
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 177 their proceedings, and appointing others to manage their business if 1781. necessary. June 21st Authorizing the Executive to put a stop to the Expedition lately ordered to Detroit, and to take steps for disposing of the Stores &c pro- vided for that purpose. Commission of "Oycr & Terminer" under the seal of the Common- June 21st wealth, granted by the Governor, Thos. Nelson Jur:—to John Magill, Alexander White, Dolphin Drew Jur: & Philip Pendleton Esqr., to assem- ble at the Court House of Hampshire County on the tenth day of July, for the trial of any or such persons in said county accused of Treason, or any such crime, injurious to the Independence of America &c &c. MAJOR B. EDGAR JOEL TO BRIO: GENL: WEEDEN. June21st . "My dear General, In obedience to your Orders, on monday last I set Hob's Hole* out for Gwyn's Island. A few miles from Leeds, I received Intelligence of several vessels being in Piankitank; this induced mo to push on, and tho' 75 miles distante, I arrived that Evening at Sir John Peyton's— I found you had been totally misinform'd. that the Enemy had not taken post on tho Island, but only landed to seize some stock. The next morning, Sir John & myself rode down to rocoinirtro Mobjack Bay and Gwin's Island, of both which places, I have taken a scotch, which I shall send you. while we were on tho beach a Brig came round Pianki- tank Point, and anchored under tho Middlesex shore—On my arrival at Urbanna in the Eveng. I was informed that the Enemy had landed at one Anderson's, on the bay, & had brought cannon on shore with them. I instantly dispatcht an Express, who rcturn'd at 4 in tho morning with an account that the Enemy were on shore—Capt Monroe who accompa- nied me as a dragoon, and myself, instantly set off for pine top, on horses we borrowed of Mr. Wormeley, determined to attack them. On our arrival, we found the boats Just got on board with Colo. Churchill, whose house they had plundered & taken him off. From tho account of young Churchill, I had reason to expect they intended landing under cover of a Flag, again at Andersons. this Flag I was determincd to detain, as it is expressly forbid in their own Code of naval laws, carrying on any correspondence by flag, from private vessels of war, to the Enemy— And I ordered tho Militia down on the bank, to oppose the landing of the other boats; which they observing, saluted Us with 8 or 9 shts., got under way, and run over for the Bay. I have seiz'd Anderson & ordered him up to this place, from there to be convey'd with the British seamen *Now called Tappahannock. 23
Page 178
178 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. who were lately taken to Leeds, there to wait your Orders. The crimes June 21st of which Anderson is accused, are of the blackest dye, holding a corres- pondence, trading with, and continually going on board the Enemy are the hjast part of his villany. Sir John Peyton having mentioned an Extraordinary Flag's being sent from Urbanna, I thought it my duty to enquire into the particulars & I waited on Mr. Wormley, & relying on your indulgence & to give greater weight to my appearance, announced myself as your supernumerary Aid—I demanded by whose authority the Flag had gone, & who were the persons that went in her. I received the following account, that the flag was granted by the County Lieut: Mon- tague, & that the persons who accompanied it, were Mr. Ralph Wormley Jur: Mr. P. Grimes, Mr. Simon Frazier, Mr. Walker & Denizon—that the two last had returned in a King's Brig, which after victualling at Urbanna, had proceeded with them in search of the Brig, which had taken their property. This step has with great Justice given umbrage to every friend of this country. To behold (after the declaration of the Enemy that "none but such as had not taken an active part should recover their property) a County Lieut: granting a flag of truce to per- sons who have ever been suspected of nefarious practices, and as thickt adherers to the British cause: that Flag received with the utmost polite- ness at Portsmouth, and a King's vessel dispatcht to recover their effects, must surely be grating to every friend of Independence, whose property has been carried off, without the most distant prospect of a recovery. In the name of those friends, I solicit, an enquiry may be made into the affair. And now Sir, permit me to point out the true state of the neck between Rappahannock and Piankitank. Behold the disaffected hold- ing an uninterrupted commerce with the Enemy—The militia giving way to every lawless inclination, turning out with reluctance to defend their own coasts, or refusing to do so atfr all—The laws useless and dis- regarded for want of proper persons to carry them into execution—The County Lieut: condemned & despised by all. the militia unprovided with powder, ball or flints, and the coasts for want of a few necessary Guards open to the ravages of the Enemy, of which the plunder of Urbanna by 15 men, is a sufficient proof. Sir John Peyton agrees with me in opinion, that an active intelligent officer, appointed to superintend the defence of Rappahanock, Piankitank & the adjacent shore, with authority to mount 40 or 50 men, which would easily be done, as not a horse has yet been taken from Middlesex, would infallibly prevent these depredations of the Enemy, & what is of more consequence. their cor- respondence with the inhabitants. But while the present system is pur- sued in this neck, while applications are made to the masters of priva- teers, instead of defiance & the language of Soldiers, all will remain in anarchy & confusion—I could meet with cannon of no Kind—Sir John Peyton has very prudently mounted one on a field carriage, which may be of great service: Indeed I have found, on minute observation the
Page 179
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 179 Glouster Militia better provided & their coast guards better posted 1781. than any other county. Let me flatter myself you will approve my June 21st steps & the expedition I have made & beleive me to be With unfeigned regard Your obliged." B. EDGAR JOEL TO BRIO GENL G. WEEDON. June 22d "I was just going, my dear Sir, to send off the foregoing, yesterday, Leeds when Col: Roan the C. Lieut: of Essex waited on me & informed me of some circumstances, I take to be of consequence. let me hope, my dear General, Providence has given us a clue to this nest of vipers. it is our part to make use of it. the night before last, the British prisoners requested permission to send a Letter to Simon Frazier df Urbanna (whom they did not know was gone down in Montague's flag) for a sup- ply of money, & chose a free mulatto to carry it—in the evening one Probart, a man of most notorious character, and who has ever been sus- pected of giving intelligence to the Enemy, demanded leave to carry the letter, which Col: Roan positively refused, & ordered him on no account to quit the town. Notwithstanding, he undertook to convey a letter from the Prisoner to the sd: Frazier, and went off unknown from Hob's Hole—Col: Roan getting notice of it sent a guard down to Piscataway Ferry to seize & search him on his return—they found only the enclosed letter* on him to Mr. Ritchie, which in my opinion, is of an extraordi- nary nature. his knowledge of the letter to Frazier, his uncertainty how to act, his fears &c &c all point out some secret connections—and it seems Mr. Ritchie knowns the design of this vessel was not plunder. however Colo. Roan & myself thought it proper to wait on Mr. Ritchie and in the most polite manner seal up his papers untfll we could receive further directions. Can we, my dear Sir, hope to succeed while such scoundrels in our very bosoms are attempting our destruction? The county of Middlesex is well known for its disaffection, and the names of Wormeley, Beverly, Frazer & Ritchie is ever Join'd to that of -Tory—let me conjure you Sir to' take some steps to unravell this connec- tion. for my part I declare without Hyperbole, I would sooner bring these internal enemies to Justice, than be again restored to my Friends and Fortune—As a Vessell had again appear'd in the offing, and as hob's hole is such a sink of Toriism, I ordered the Prisoners to march last night. they are just arrived & shall wait at this place for your orders for their destination—you will agree with me no place on the water can be proper for such daring Fellows—Inclosed No 1,* is a copy of a letter found on board the vessell which was taken & which Capt: Carre com- manded, from him to Earl Cornwallis, (no doubt to be fowarded by Mr. * Not 'found.
Page 180
180 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Frazer or his connections. No 2.* is a letter from Colo. Roan to the Mar- June 22d quis. he desires his compliments, and assures you had he known of your being at Fredoricksburg you should have had early intelligence. I am with sincere respect Yo: obliged &c." June 22d Friday General Assembly June 22d The Governor authorized by Joint Resolution, to appoint a Secretary, "to be allowed at the rate of thirty thousand pounds of Tobacco pr: annum &c. BRIO: GENL G. WEEDON TO THE GOVERNOR. Frcderic'sb'g In regard to the apprehension, trial and condemnation of the two prisoners, Dye & Wright, by Col: Wm. Nelson, who under his orders is in command of the "Four lower counties of the Northern Neck—Refers the future disposal of these men to Executive authority. June 22d General Assembly "AN ACT TO REGULATE THE DEPARTMENT OF THE WAR OFFiCE."t June 22d PETITION OF DANIEL CLARK TO GOVERNOR NELSON. Staunton He is a resident of N. Orleans and a subject of his Catholic Majesty: has on various occasions shewn his attachment to the Cause of America, to the detriment of his private fortune—Importuned by Mr. Oliver Pol- lock, the Agent of Virginia at N. Orleans, he had advanced to the State "Forty Thousand Mexican Dollars," to meet the wants of the Detach- ments on the Mississippi under Col: Clark & Lt: Col: Montgomery. He had no doubt of Mr. Pollock's having been empowered by Virginia to be her Agent in that Quarter—This was shown by the fact that Gov: Galvez of New Orleans was of the same opinion, and always encouraged the few wealthy Americans who resided there to aid Mr. Pollock, by taking his Bills on Virginia—The official correspondence between Pol- lock and the Executive, in which his conduct was from time to time approved, and in which his purchases were accredited to Virginia and not to Congress was further evidence of this fact. Under these circumstances, and trusting to the "Honor of the Ancient Colony of Virginia for which she was so deservedly famed thro' out America," and thro' "zeal for her cause" "without Interest or view of * Not found. f This appears in full in " Henning's Statutes at Large," as having been enacted in May 1781. It was not passed until at this date.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 181
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. gain" and without hope of any reward, he had cheerfully lent his entire 1781. fortune for the support of her service—He cannot then believe, himself June 22d and family will be allowed to be reduced to beggery, in return for such disinterested services—He should not be held responsible for the "frauds or peculations" of the Servants of Virginia, or be brought to ruin because they have been "corrupt and scandalous"—He humbly prays the Executive will duly take into consideration the merits of his claim, and grant him the redress and relief to which he feels himself so justly entitled. JOHN HAY TO ROBT. WILLIAMS, STATE'S ATTY: FOR PITTSYLVANIA June 22d COUNTY. "Sir, Arriving here yesterday on my way to North Carolina, with pub- Robert^ lie Despatches, a person named Chas: Lynch Adams, accompanied by Ordinary two persons called Thos. Tonsill and Ned Tonsill assuming the authority of Magistrates did by force of arms seize upon me and my public des- patches, with my private papers, all on lawful and necessary business. Adams, a justice of the peace breaking open or causing to be broken open despatches from Congress to the Governor & other public Officers of North Carolina." * * * * "By this event I have been delayed here eighteen hours, and forcibly detained; and whilst this inconvenience has been suffered, some matters of the utmost importance which in confidence of secrecy in the Execu- tive of Carolina, had been imparted by Congress, are thus exposed to common ears." These facts can be proved by Joseph Roberts Danl: Roberts and Jacob Williams &c—Hopes a judicial investigation will at once be instituted, in order to punish the offenders, and that an account of this outrage be sent to the Executive at Staunton. Resolution of the Genl: Assembly fixing the first Monday in October June 23d as the day on which they will meet and in the town of Richmond, pur- Staunton suant to adjournment—But in case the movements of the enemy, in the opinion of the Executive, shall interfere with this determination, the said meeting of the Assembly may be either at Fredoricksburg or Win- chester, or at such other place as the Executive may determine upon.
Page 182
182 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. June 24th Staunton RD: CLAIBORNE TO Gov. NELSON. Enclosing copy* of "the arrangement for the Quarter Master's Depart- ment in the Continental Line" made by Col: Ed: Carrington, approved by the Executive and adopted by himself: with the names of the Asst: Dept. Q. Masters at the different Posts viz "Col: James Hendricks at Alexandria Major Charles Magill at Winchester Capt: George Rice at Charlottesville Capt: Thomas Hamilton, Staunton Mr. Richard Young, Fredericksburg— Major Benjamin Day, at Williamsburg Major Thomas H Drew at Carter's Ferry. and Mr. William McCraw at Peytonsburg—" The District of Richmond being broken up by the Enemy Capt: Ham- ilton retired to Staunton, and Petersburg being in the same situation, and "Capt: Holmes Captured, is of no consequence in the arrangement." Refers to his letters to the Speaker of the fl. of Delegates, which as yet have not been answered—Upon reading them any suggestions to be made by the Executive he will be happy to entertain, and carry out their orders accordingly— * * * * By the plan for providing for the depreciation of the currency in paper No. 4,* contrary to his expectation disagreeable consequences have occurred—"The people finding it is to be determined by reference, withold their property and cry it up to more than they had been satis- fied with from the Dettors"—Contracts made and the articles used, set- tlements may be made upon the basis of the depreciation fixed by the Grand Jury. But in cases where persons are employed, it becomes optional with them whether they will serve or retire to private life.— Continues "If I pay a person his wages at 200 for one, he will not serve because it is not equal to what he must give. If it is to be determined by the opinions of men, they will decide from report, which originates with men interested in crying it up—And if the public Agents fix it, calumny will say their private emolument is a prevailing motive. The price fixed on by the late State Quarter Master and myself for the hire of wagoners, will not induce people to engage in that employ, many having left the service—It is two shillings and six pence specia pr: day, or other money equivalent" Begs to be informed whether this shall be changed— June24th Rob't B. Carre, James Pope, Jno. Jaram and Dan: Grandison, "in con- Leeds sequence of being indulged to march unconfined," give their paroles of honor, that they will not make any attempt to escape— *Not found.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 183
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 183 Affidavits of R. Harper, Wm. Saunders and John Washington accusing Capt: W. Holland of treasonable designs &c. and for replying, when asked his reasons why he would not turn out to act as guard, "that the people in Boston, New York & Phil: that stay'd by their property res- cued it, & those that flew into the Country & took up arms lost it totally & swore by God if the enemy came upon the spott, he would not take up arms in defence of his country, but would stay by his property & would make the best terms he could." 1781. June 26th COL: WM. DA VIES TO GOVERNOR NELSON. June 26th "Sir, Mr. Ford, who was the undertaker of the works at point of fork Staunton now waits on your Excellency, to be directed by the determination of the Executive, whether he shall prosecute or abandon tho public designs at that place. The enemy destroyed the barracks that had been erected there, but left the blacksmiths' shops untouched, as well as the frame of the Armoury which was raised and ready for covering in— The place has many advantages of situation, except tho single circum- stance of its being possible that tho enemy may visit it, tho' I think not probable, especially as the buildings cannot for a while be very exten- sive— I. have the honor to be most respectfully &c COL: GEORGE SKILLERN TO Gov. NELSON. June 26th In accordance with orders from Honbl. Wm. Fleming, requiring one BotetourtCo. half tho militia of the County, exclusive of all former demands, to ren- dezvous at once, he had ordered the draft, and they were to have assem- bled the day before at Anderson's Ferry—But some person of credit just from Staunton had "propagated a report" that the militia of many of the Counties below, had received permission to remain at home until they had finished their harvest—Tho report being believed, ho fears the attempt to draft the necessary number of men will fail. Ho makes this - statement to exculpate himself from all blame, and is ready to enforce any measures which may be adopted. Asks for instructions as to how he is to dispose of tho eighteen months men left in the County. Assures his Excellency, that the people of the County will, as they always have done, "turn out with the greatest spirit & allacrity" could they be allowed to remain at homo until harvest is over—There are very strong reasons why this should be granted— Continues "about four years agoe Capt: Lapsley, a Continental Officer recruited in this county one Solomon Carpenter, Amos Carpenter & Sam- uel Lyons. at the time of their Enlistment he told them that they were
Page 184
184 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. June 26th to serve as Life guard to General Washington & to receive 2.' | 6' pr: day. After they were marchd. to head quarters & found that they ware not Imployed in that service, they deserted & have laid in the mountains for a long time. this party at this time, I have reason to believe is about forty or fifty—I have used my best endeavours to Disperse the Party & have the Leader apprehended, but every measure has proved ineffectual. the men above-mentioned are now at my house, under the sanction of a Flag—they propose that they will serve two years with the militia of this county, whenever called for, or Join General Clark for the same Term. I would only observe that Solomon Carpenter, the Leader of the party was captivated by the Indians when young & remained with them a number of years, that he is a Bold, daring, active man & intimates that if his terms are not complied with he will seek refuge among the Indians—His Party consists of active woodsmen, well armed with Rifles & might become very Dangerous—I think it's advisable to reclaim him & his party on the best terms we can & if these or any other terms ware offered, that ware satisfactory, 1 believe his Influence is great enough to bring in the party. I can assure you as there are men of credit now here who affirms it that they ware Deceived by the recruiting officer— there are parties of Toreys & Deserters lying in Montgomery & Wash- ington & they no Doubt have correspondence with Each Other & should they embody, might become very Dangerous to the Back Country. But whatever orders, your Excellency may please to send I will Indeavour punctually to comply with." June27th JNO: MAOiLL TO ALEX: WHITE, DOLPHIN DREW & PHILIP PENDLETON ESQRES. Gill Hall Sending the Commission of Oyer & Terminer, received by Col: Van- meter; informing them of their appointment, and suggesting that a meeting should be held previous to going to Romney—Unless this can be done, proposes their meeting at "House's on Timber Ridge on Sun- day Evening the 8th of next month." June 27th MAJOR WM. NELSON TO COL: DAVIES. Winchester The unsettled situation of the Country for some time past, has pre- vented his applying for many articles needed by his Corps—Cheif of these are swords, without which Horsemen are useless,—but boots are almost as useful and as much wanted—A better set of men and horses have not been seen since the war began, than are to march with him on the morrow to join the Marquis. But he is under the necessity of leav- ing Capt: Armand with nearly forty men, who have good horses, but
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 185
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 185 no accoutrements. About thirty five of his men will be entitled to their 1781. discharge very shortly, having enlisted for only two years—If he had June 27th the recruiting money, their places could soon be supplied, and many of them retained to serve during the war. June 27th AUTOGRAPH LETTER OF GENL: NATHL. GREENE TO Gov: JEFFERSON Camp near y * Cross Roads "VA- between Broad River and Catawba MAJOR JOHN PRYOR, COM: GENL: MIL STORES, TO COL: WM. DAVIES. June27th "Dear Sir, Yours of the 24th was just now handed to me—I thank you Charlottes- for the agreeable piece of Intelligence respecting our Southern opera- tions. I hope every thing will go well yet—Ld. Cornwallis was last Saturday retreating rather precipitately, and the Marquis pursuing below Bo'ttoms' Bridge—Majr. Thomas Massie just from Winchester, says that Genl: Morgan is on his march with 3000 Riflemen—with this addition, If they arrive in time, I think our Lads will have the fingering some of his Ld. ships Baggage & plunder at least. Being fully sensible of the scarcity of Ammunition in Camp I lost no time in erecting a Laboratory at this place for a supply. the want of lead and hands at first, was truly alarming, which you must have seen from my Letter to you on the subject. I left no stone unturned to pro- cure both, and at best, went on but feebly 'till you sent down the balance of the Laboratory men from Staunton a few days ago, and the arrival of 1500 lbs. Lead from Ross' works wch. I sent for—however, I have already sent down upwards of 12.000 musket Cartridges, and some of my Artificers wch. arc daily dropping into me, making Ammn.-boxes to contain the cartridges wch. are making at the rate of about 3 or 4000 pr: day—likewise Arms chests wch. have been so long wanted—a few days ago 90 muskits arrived hero from the North'd—addressed to David Ross Esqr—they were new F. muskets—1 have sent them down to the Marquis in chests, as I had orders to send all I could raise down to the Army. I must think that the Marquis has a sufficiency of loose powder & lead in camp, or I should have had requisitions from Mr. McRobert, Field C. M. Stores, whose business it is to apply to mo for supplies—I sent down Twenty odd barrels of Powder not long since & all the lead collected from the windows below, was to be sent to camp wch. I supposed wou'd be sufficient for the Rifle Men.—The Marquis has applied to mo to have a few 18-poundors mounted as soon as possible—I immediately sont a * Appears in full in the Appendix to the Life of Greene, by Geo. Washington Greene—published in 1867. 21
Page 186
186 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. June 27th person down to Hanvr. Co House to enquire about the cannon & carriages wch. were sent over to remove them, in that quarter: from thence he was to go over to Richmond, and to make every inquiry about the can- non, carriages, Arms put out to repair &c &c, that way, and If the two carriages could be found wch. Capt Roan had over towards Hano., two '18-pounders were instantly to be mounted—this person is to make every enquiry into the cannon, arms &c. all up James River, and bring me a report as expeditiously as possible—I never heard of any cannon being at Carter's Ferry at all. Capt: Bohannan, who called on me, said it was your desire that the Laboratory should be removed to Irvine's Store. We concluded it would be inelligiblo to remove it now, as Ammun. was so much wanted and a stagnation to preparing it might be fatal; but as soon as an ample supply could be made, your plan might be adopted, wch. I hope will meet yr. approbation—amongst the artificers I have recruited, are sundry Armourers, Gun Stockers &c wch. I shall send to the Armoury you propose establishing at Irvines together wth. all the damaged Arms from camp. the supply of Lead is not enough—but hope my men will succeed, whom I have sent to the mines—I am sorry you declined sending Mr. Smith the cartridge paper to Bedford Co Ho., as I think it is of the first moment that that Laboratory should go on wth. vigour, Genl. Greene's dependence being totally on its supplies—I expect a largo supply of cartridge paper on shortly from the Northd.— I mention'd to you in my Letter respecting my sending for lead, to the mines, that I had ordor'd a proportion to Staunton, under the Idea that you meant to establish a Laboratory at that place—now it seems you intend Irvin's shall be tho place. You have never desired mo to counter- mand that order. I have tho honor to be with tho highest respect & Esteem Dr Sir, yours Sincerely." June27th G. WILSON, SuRON. G. Hosp: TO COL: WM. DAVIES At Staunton. "Sir, Charlottes- I had the honor of addressing you some time ago, respecting the ville wants of the general Hospital in Virginia, but ne.ver had tho pleasure of receiving an answer. probably tho letter may not have reached you. Since that period tho situation of tho Hospital has been equally wretched and fluctuating—At present, by the Marquis' orders, it is fixed hero— and consists of seventy patients, entirely destitute of every article, except a few pounds of Rice, that can render them comfortable, or hasten their recovery—I have wrote repeatedly to Philadelphia for cash, or Stores & assistance, but have had the mortification to see my applica- tions, and the department neglected.
Page 187
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 187 Sensibly impressed with the sufferings of the sick, and desirous to remove them, if possible, I have inclosed for your inspection an Inven- tory* of Stores which, for the sake of the poor languishing soldiers, I must beg you to patronise—If they cannot be procured in Staunton, I could wish a sum of money, adequate to the Inventory, might be granted me. I believe I could purchase all, or the most essential of them, Vinegar, sugar or molasses, and linnen are absolutely necessary—indeed 'tis impos- sible, without the loss of some lives to do without them. I have with great trouble & distress supplied the Regimental Surgeons with a small assortment of Bandages, some lint and tow—These I procured from the inhabitants by begging, borrowing, stealing or rather forcibly taking— However, I am quite tired of such practices, and am determined for my own reputation, rather to want them, than practice or counteneance such methods any more—Should an action take place, I am confident the wounded must suffer beyond conception—I should be happy of an answer as soon as possible. I remain, With perfect esteem Sir, yr: most obet, hblo Servant." 1781. June 27th SAUL: HUNTINGTON, PRES: OF CONGRESS TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. June27th The Regiment of Invalids, at the desire of the Commander in Cheif, Philadelphia being about to be removed from Phila. to garrison West Point on North River, Congress has passed a resolution, recommending the States of Delaware. Maryland & Virginia, to settle with the officers and men, citi- zens of those States respectively, on certificates from the Commanding Officer, without requiring their personal attendance, to liquidate their accounts for Depreciation of the currency. DAVID Ross TO COL: WM. DAVIES at Staunton. Junc 28th "Sir, Your favours of the 15th & 26th are now before mo, they came to Pt. of Fork hand nearly abt the same time. The last information which I had from Oxford Works, mentnd. that there was three tons of Lead arrived at that place. I -hope you have got a supply from thence—I mentnd. often in presence of Major Pryor, that I had ordered the Lead to that place & to be detained there 'till further orders—I am sorry to see by a letter just received from him, that he has forgot it—I have sent him an order for a ton." * * * * * "Finding , that our Executive are to be met with at Charlottesville, I will wait * Not found.
Page 188
188 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. upon them on Monday. Were you not BO. much engaged at present, June 28th making your several arrangmts. at Staunton, I would be happy in meet- ing with you at Charlottesville. I could say much of my own distress & misfortunes, but that of our Country is at present alarming & obscures all private losses. People will have their own opinions in matters. the Baron is much blamed this way, he's curs'd by men, women & children." * * * * * "Finding no assistance could be obtained from the military in saving the 84, pks: of canvass, I brot two canoes down the River, that night after our Troops went away & loaded them, one with canvass and the other with Bacon of my own. I have saved about 70 odd pgs: of canvass & its' delvd. to Mr. Jones. I saved a considerable quantity of iron at this place, nail rod, Gun barrels & gun locks—a number of Old arms, spades, shovels, pick axes & some canvass & Brimstone has been got out of the River. of all the powder left on Cobb's hill, 15 or 16 blls is saved—I think the Country people stole as much or more than the British destroy'd, and had the Enemy continued 10 days longer amongst us, I have reason to beleive a number of our people would have broke in upon their ncighbours' property. You've no doubt heard that all the stores at J. Ware's was destroy'd— this is a disagreable situation, for amongst other evils, the small pox has broke out in difft parts of my Estate. I am yours most affectionately." June 28th GOV: NELSON TO MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE. "Sir, Richmond In consequence of your first requisition of militia to join Genl: Wayne & to proceed to So. Caro., the Executive directed a seventh part of the militia of several counties nearest the borders of Carolina to ren- dezvous immediately—these it was supposed would amount to about 1000 or 1200 men. Afterwards when you desired the number to be aug- mented to 2000, the same counties were called on to increase their num- bers to'one fourth wch. would produce more than you required—No Part of the British Army having gone Southwardly, as was apprehended when the latter- Requisition was made, a Doubt has arisen whether you may now think 2000 more necessary for the Southern service. What renders the sending a greater number of men on this Expedition, than the service actually requires, a matter of more moment than it other- wise would be, is the scarcity of public arms & the Probability there is that we shall want as many as we can collect, in other Quarters. The Executive wish to have your sentiments on this subject. I am &c."
Page 189
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. J. PARKER, ACTING COLO. COMDG., TO Gov: NELSON. 1781. June 29th "Permit me my dear Sir, to congratulate you in the most warm man- Camp Babbs ner on your appointment to the Government of ins. The 9th instant, I wrote the Speaker of the Assembly, which is now enclosed for your perusal." * * * "Since that date I was honored'with yours empowering mo to call on certain counties, which your Excellency must be sensible is not sufficient to answer the purposes of a camp so near so powerfull an Enemy as is now at Ports- mouth & its vicinity, especially as I am informed that General Gregory was routed the day before yesterday. I fear it is too true, as Capt Briss- coe cross'd the Swamps last Evening, and reports that he was at the upper pass where numbers came to him & informed that the camp was routed. but I still have a hope its not true, but that a few timid wretches fled from the approach of the Enemy. Should it be the case you must be but to sensible of our situation. we have not a man above Surry with us. Princess Anne & Norfolk, and all Nancemond below Suffolk has taken protection from the Enemy, and arc very dangerous Enemies. poor Nott has fallen by them. ho would not attend camp for Orders, but Kept scouting about, doing the Enemy little injuries, 'till the morn- ing before last, when five of his county men laid a trap for and shott him after they got him in it. not satisfied with puting a ball through his bowels, they put him in a cart and was jolting him down with haste to the British post at Ivy's, near which they were overtaken by Lt: Blunt with Ten Dragoons, who retook poor Nott & the rascally Serjeant which commanded the party—Nott died yesterday morning and the Sar- jent accompanys this, not thinking him safe here, as he is one of the most vile rascals in this part of the County, I should have disposed of him, but could not execute-him without your approbation agreable to Law. he deserted from us in his tour of duty, has been arraigned at the Bar, for counterfeiting money, lives in Nancemond county and called Dempsey Butler. You have his pasport & parole inclosed. he is in high' Esteem with the British, they having allready sent a Flagg in quest of him, and denounce vengeance against all in their power if he is injured. I have informed them, that I despise their threats & that I have sent him up the country, where he will doubtless meet his deserts, that Ras- calls & Villains of every sort, will never meet with any protection or lenity from me—Unless something decissive is done with these peo- ple below Suffolk, my station must be very disagreable. indeed I think it would be better to remove them over the mountains, I consider them much more dangerous than the public Enemy. I am well informed theres not one below Jericho, that has not gone in for protection. my impotency will cause this contagion to spread and by these means they will increase not only their strength, & weaken us, but extend their
Page 190
190 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. posts, having nothing to fear from-those amongst them. indeed it June 29th dispirits the few good counties about us, to find the adjacent ones Idle. You have a retun* of the few men I have and from the counties. they are well disciplined and would be well arm'd, if they had bayonets. but when the small stock of stores are expended I do not know where to procure more: indeed I am obliged to procure all, even provisions come under my care, and we have never had a shilling of money to pay of the debts already contracted—I have directed my Commissary to have every thing valued in specie, that the people may not loose by depreciation, and I most earnestly request that some person may be sent with money to pay of the debts and to remain here for the purpose of purchasing supplies of different sorts. If a wheel of my Iron pieces gives way, I must press, & my sick wants for small things. indeed you must feel for my situation as well as the number of good men we have in this part of the Country, and I doubt not but you will give the necessary directions; tho' indeed the civil power is to feeble so near the Enemy to act with that spirit which they ought—indeed I think that those who remain with the Enemy ought to pay tho losses of the well affected. I am with- out Tents, but I cannot tire you any more on tho subject. About four- teen days since, arrived near forty sail of vessels mostly from the South- ward, not long since^from England. I beleive they have landed some men: from the best accounts they are troops from Wilmington. my intelli- gence is worse than ever it has been, as we have to many Enemies betwixt us and the advanced post, and I have not- money to pay proper spies. had I money I could procure Carpenters to build fast rowing boats, which would be very serviceable—I must request your Excellency will send mo a few Commissions for privateers, as I have already two large whale boats done which will go cruizing in the bay in a day or two, and untill I can procure proper Coms. must give Brevets—about two hundred good Rifle men would be very serviceable, and if the coun- ties below Chesterfield were ordered down, it would make a respectable force, but I am told tho most of these counties are in a most torpid state, indeed we ought to be reinforced from Carolina. I have wrote Genl: Jones on the subject. but if for want of men, they have lost the North West River Bridge, especially as I requested when I took Command here it might be reinforced, it would appear we have little to expect from them. if it is the case, it is to be hoped tho Enemy will make them pay for their inattention. I have reflected it wou'd take more of my men than I can spare at this time to send Butler to you, have there- fore confin'd him in So. Hampton Goal 'till your orders shall be known. .* Return. I Colo. 2 Lt. Colos. 1 Major. 13 Capts: 19 Lieuts: 10 Ensigns. 1. Aid de Camp— 1. Brig: Inspector 1. Q. Master—3 Sergt. Majors, 46 Sergeants. Drums & Fifes 4.— Effectives 422—On furlough 26—Sick present 6—Sick absent 20—Total Rank & File 622.
Page 191
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 191 do honor mo with an answer to this, and beloive mo to be with every 1781. sentiment of respect and Esteem, June 29th Your Excellency's most obedient and very humble Servant. P. S. Many men act hero without Commissions, by my appointment. pray send mo some blanks, as it would releive their fears—Reports from Portsmouth say a Congress is siting at Vienna, the Emperor of Germany presides. Bets is five to one at Portsmouth that a peace takes place before Christmas &c." MAJOR GENL: NATH: GREENE TO Gov: JEFFERSON. June 29th "Sir, The importance of Partizan Corps as well as the necessity for aug- Head Quar- menting our Cavalry is more and more felt every day. Capt: Rudulph belonging to Lt: Colo Lee's Legion comes to Virginia with a view of augmenting that usefull and necessary Corps. Whither the circumstances of the other Corps of Cavalry and the peculiar situation of Virginia will admit of enlarging this Corps, Your Excellency will judge and direct accordingly—I have only to observe that whatever aid is given to this business will essentially promote the service, and the force so formed shall be employed in Virginia, while the State continues to be oppressed. I have the honor to be, with great respect, Your Excellency's most Obedt. Humble Servant." Col: James Callaway sends to Col: Davies, for five men enlisted for June29th eighteen months, 20.000 Dollars, bounty money, each to receive 4.000 Bedford Co. dolls. Chas Russell, D. Q. M—recommends to Col: Davies, the policy of dis- June29th tilling whiskey, now so necessary to the Army, from the super abundant Amherst, supply of Rye on hand in this and the adjacent Counties, and the pros- nearGlasgow peets for an unusually large crop. COL: RD: JARNES TO COL: DAVIES at Charlottesville. June29th He will set about building the boats ordered, in a few days; agrees Cumberland with him in regard to the dimensions—The Enemy did not cross the river, by which fortunate circumstance, they escaped the plunders— hopes it will not soon be in their power to make another such excursion.
Page 192
192 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MATH: POPE, SURGN. G. HOSPITAL TO HON: BENJ: HARRISON at June 30th Staunton. "I have wrote the late Governor Mr. Jefferson respecting the medi- cine belonging to this State from R. Island, being seized by the Conti- nental Deptmt.—this Sir is a fatal stroke to us, and more particularly so just now as we have lost all our medicines and stores, Colo Tarlton over- took them in Louisa, and burnt both waggons & medicines—I am now setting off from Camp in order to procure medicine for the use of the Army." ***** •' I hope in the mean time proper steps will be fallen upon to recover those or others, according to lists in the hands of Mr. Jefferson, So cruelly and unjustly taken from us" &c. June 30th Charlottes- ville MAJOR JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Urging him to make provision for supplying the Artificers under him; and who although essential to the service, must be discharged unless they be fed. June 30th (Translation.) PETITION OF CERTAIN OFFICERS AND INHABITANTS TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA &c. Vincennes "The undersigned have the honour to present to your Excellency, the very serious greivances to which they have been exposed, since the arrival of Virginia Troops in this Country: and especially since Capt (Col:) Clark left this town have we experienced most horrible treatment from a people who professed to be friends, and who were generously received as such. But things have totally changed since the departure of that Officer. He left in command Col: Montgomery, who with his Officers have failed to carry out his friendly policy. 'We have with promptitude furnished provisions and goods as far as was in our power. Col: Clark drew bills on the Treasurer of Virginia which remain unpaid. The accredited Officers of finance and others have assured us that Con- tinental money was of equal value with coin, and we accepted the same in good faith. When the Virginians gave us cause to be suspicious of their money, we remonstrated with Col: Clark and the Officers of the Garrison, who, notwithstanding this fact, claimed for this money its value in Spanish Coin. Mr. John Todd 'in accord with Capt: Leonard Helm, commanding the Fort at this town, has required by public order that this money be received as of equal value with Specie, threatening punishment of all who refused it. As soon as we had furnished provi-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 193
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 193 sions & goods for this money, the Virginians appeared to think they 1781. could take by force our property, our supplies, and even the little we Juno 30th had reserved to keep ourselves alive. Your Excellency must also be informed, that in addition to these annoyances, they have perpetrated others of a more serious character, [by Killing our Cattle in the fields, and our hogs in our yards, taking our flour from the mills, and the corn in our Garners, with arms in their hands threatening all who should resist them, and the destruction of the fort we built at our own cost. When they left the town they carried off the artillery, powder and Balls, thereby depriving us of the only means of defending ourselves against the fury of the Savages, whom th'ey have excited against us. This you perceive is the conduct Virginians have pursued in this Country. Your Excellency may be assured this is the exact truth, and Mr. Vaucheros is charged with the duty of represent- ing the matter to your Excellency, of demanding the satisfaction due to us as Citizens and friends of the States, and to make adequate return for the money we have received as of the value of Specie. We beseech your Excellency to require the troops to put an end to the troubles they continue to produce; we are unwilling longer to sub- mit to the exactions incident to their lawless proceedings, it being appa- rent to his Excellency that the Virginians have entirely i*uined us already. If it be thus you treat your friends. pray what have you in reserve for your Enemies? We must insist that your Excellency put an end to our misfortunes, and render us the Justice our patience deserves. Assuring you of our profound Respect, We have the honor to be &c PHILLEBERT J. M. P. LEGRACE Lieut: Colo. PIERRE GAMELIN GODEFROY LINETOT Mjr. PIERRE GUERIN F. BOSSOROY Majr. P. MALLET. PIERRE COURNOYER— MOSES HENRY LEGRAND L. E. DEL LINE DA GENET- JEAN BATISTE VALLA1TE P. BARRON JA. BAVOIS ISREAL RULAND." COL: CHRISTIAN FEBIGER TO COL: WM. DAVIES—at Staunton— June 30th "Dr. Colo., Camp I have been on a Tory Expedition since I came to Virginia; Quaint letter I afterwards joined the army and commanded a mutinous Brigade, untill the Baron arriv'd with the new Levies, of whom I took command. But Lord have mercy upon us, a modest army of Women on examining Any Thing lower than the navel, would instantly take to their Scrapers 25
Page 194
194 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. on the Appearance of so many naked Clubs in . The fact is the June 30th men are literally naked, shirts and Blanketts excopted—I must there- Men naked fore earnestly request the Favour of you to give your special and per- sonal assistance to Major Poulsen, in procuring &c a sufficiency of shoes Overalls and Hatts" &c—or the men "will from real nakedness, be com- pelled te quitt the Feild—many are now left about the Country, with their Feet half worn off, and I do not think there is more than 20 prs: of good shoes in the Regiment." * * * The Baron * * * * "The Baron take'charge wants mo to take charge of the Station when fixed—I prefer the Field of the Sta- especially when active. But should the Enemy, retire yet further I tion, c. beleive I wili accept—pray give me your advice on this point—I have ruined myself by being in Command to Philadelphia—Can I send for Madam and maintain her at the Station or here—have I a Commissary of my own—will the public give me as much as I can eat and drink, will they permit me to give a hungry man a Dinner—may I keep one horse extra as Comdt—pray satisfy me on these points, and beleive me to be with real Esteem Dr. Colo. your most obedient &c. July 1st W. PICKERING Q. M. GENERAL TO MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE. "My dear Sir, Camp at Your favours of May 30th & June 8th both arrived to day. I am greived that my long silence should have given you pain from an apprehension that I was dissatisfied with your conduct. Far from this, I have rather wondered under the innumerabell embarrassments in your district that you did so well. I have not heard a Syllable to your dis- advantage, or that of your assts. If I had, my candour and the friend- ship I bear you, would have induced mo to tell yo so.—the accounts of your management of Business given in your letters I have read with great pleasure. most of them describe your distress, and if it had been pos- sible for me to have releived you t would gladly have done it, but for want of money my hands^are tied. All public credit is at an end here, as well as with you. Money is the universal cry, with that I can get any thing and at a cheap rate. You mention the want of Leather, I suppose for Horse Harness— There is a considerable quantity of Harness ready made in Pensylvania. Write to Colo. Miles for as many sets as you must be supply'd with—I will write him by the first conveyance, also after I can find a moments leisure. I have long intended to notice in a long letter, all the letters you have favoured me with; but the volumes I am obliged to write on business essential to the main Army have prevented. At your distance, I know
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 195
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 195 • f my interference could not materially help you. you have often asked 1781. for money. I can scarcely get enough to support my own expences & July 1st am every day running in debt to my friends for my own support. I beg you to beleive that my silence (should I be silent hereafter) will not spring from inattention to you, but from my unwcildy load of Busi- ness & my inability to help you. I am Dear Sir With great Esteem Your most Obet Sorvt." THOMAS SMITH D.. C. GBNL: M. STORES TO COL: DA VIES, at Staunton. July 1st Expressing great concern at the situation "of our Public matters" New London and regrets the Continental and State affairs have become sO blended as to involve both in common difficulties—Ho has however managed to remove all the stores from Prince Edward C. House, after great trouble—will send return of them soon, and hopes to be prepared to render all neces- sary assistance to the State. MAJOR JOHN PRYOR TO COL: WM. DAVIES at "Colo. Lewis's." July 1st Since he has been in charge of the Department over which he pro- Charlottes- sides, experience has demonstrated the injury resulting from attempting vi e to maintain for the Continental and State services separate arrange- ments for their Military Stores—This is shown by the trouble he has, in collecting & Keeping separate at places designated by orders, the stores of each department; by the power of State officials to break up or inter- fore with works established by him for the preparation of Ammunition, and disposing of magazines upon which he depends for immediate sup- plies, thereby risking the delay of these, when called for by the Com- manders in the field—Being the only person, upon whom the Command- en of the Armies or Corps in the Southern Department, depend, in the now thoroughly invaded States, he proposes that they deliver over the whole of their Military Stores to the Commissary Genl: of Military Stores or his Deputy, for the common defence; each State to be credited with such as shall be carried out of her bounds, and bo accounted for by a subsequent settlement with the Continental service—He does not doubt Capt: Bohannan's capacity or activity as the Com: of Mil: Stores of Virginia, but suggests this plan as conducing not only to the preven- tion of delays, risks and accidents, but also to the reducing the expeneo of having many State Officers not absolutely wanted. His motive for suggesting this change springs alone from an anxious desire to meet the wants of the Army, so far as concerns his Department.
Page 196
196 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Col: James Callaway informs Col: Davies, that the Wagon and team July 2nd required of the County is ready, and that the amount of Clothing will Bedford Co. be, in a few days. July 2nd MAJOR B. ED: JOEL TO BRIO: GENL: WEEDON. "Dr. General, Leeds Inclosed is a letter* I have met with from a noted scoun- drcll in Port Royal to Mr. A. Crawford of this place, who has likewise laid under suspicions for this,long time. You may rest assured Mr. Mil- ler is a principle link in the chain of Torys which runs thro' these Coun- tys. you will likewise receive depositions of the Capts Harper & Bris- coc and of Mr. 'VVillm. Saunders of this place against a certain Capt. Holland,—whoso character has long been equivocal—I have many mere evidences against him, but think these sufficient to foward, your orders to me to apprehend them, and not permit at this critical juncture these vipers to crawl about unnoticed and unregarded—there has been a con- stant run of letters past from Port-royal to this town, and from hence to Hob's Hole & Urbanna this day or two.—the flag sent down by Monta- gue is returned, but the Enemy has permitted Mr. Walker & Denizon to proceed to New York to look after their property—these are the blessed advantages of being Torys: a true Whig would find a great difference in their conduct, was he to condescend to apply for his property. I pre- sume not to pass my sentiments on these dark transactions & on the con- duct of the Rascalls—permit me only to observe, that untill coercive measures are taken, they will triumph in their crimes, and pursue their correspondence with the British unmolested—I shall wait here to celebrate our glorious Independence on Wednesday, for which great preparations are makingl!!—I have just receiv'd Intelligence of the return of one Lewit Stevens (a capital Pilot for the Bay & these rivers) to Urbanna from the Enemy—ho was lately wounded on board one of their vessels, in cutting the Jolly Robin out of Curatoman—he has a private signal for going on board them. Tho' 70 miles from here, I wait impatiently for your order to apprehend him—he is of the most dangerous sort. I dispatcht an Express to Frazers, and Tod's Bridge to look out for that rascal Care, & likewise one to the Brig at the mouth of the River. I have been obliged to supply them with money for their expences—which as my finances are not extensive has greatly reduced them. I should esteem it as a singular favor if you would oblige me with the use of 1000 or 1500 dollars untill I return to fredericksburg—Col: Jett and Skinker desires their respects. I am with sincere esteem and respect Your obliged."— * Not found.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 197
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 197 SAML: LYLE TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. July 2nd Accepting the appointment of Commissioner of the Provision Law— Rockbridge The principal articles to be had in the County are Flour, Corn, and Oats—Some little whisky. There is a large quantity of flour made from the wheat collected in the specific tax, to be fowarded to the army, but great difficulty in procuring waggons & teams for the purpose. WM. GRAYSON TO THE Gov: OF VIRGINIA. July 2nd "Sir, The Board have the honor to inform you, that they have furnished War Office, Capt: Sigogne, commanding officer of Colonel Armand's Legion, with United States clothing and accoutrements for that Corps, with an intention that they might act with effect in the army commanded by the Marquis La-Fay- ette—They find it absolutely impracticable to furnish them with the additional number of horses necessary; the whole amount of the Legion is sixty nine, for whom there are only twenty five horses; if your Excel- lency could furnish them with a sufficient number to mount the whole on Continental account, it would be doing a very essential service; indeed if you are in such a situation as to be able to mount any of the other Continental Corps, it will be productive of the best consequences. I have the honor to be with the highest respect, yr: Excclly's most obt Servt." Major R. Claiborno informs Col: Davies, that the subjects of his late July 3rd communications had met the entire approbation of the Assistant Deputy Charlottes- Q. Masters, especially that of making the County Commissioners of the ville provision law perform their duties—a thing they have by no means done heretofore. Major Pryor informs Col: Davios, that Mr. Ben: Colvard, whom he July 3rd had sent to the Lead mines for lead. has procured Six thousand pounds— Charlottes- 1800 lbs. sent to Bedford Co. House—the remainder sent to Staunton. ville
Page 198
198 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. PETITION OF NUMEROUS CITIZENS MILITIA, late in the expedition to Genl: July 3rd Greene's army, praying the Executive of Va. to be allowed this term of service as a "tour of duty" notwithstanding they had returned to their homes before their time had expired. BotetourtCo. They state that out of about half the county two thirds of the militia were taken, and the entire strength of the other half—After they had marched, it was found that only one fourth had been ordered—By the time they reached N. Carolina they were ncar to starvation, having to pass through a country desolated by both the main armies; and were exposed to cold rains and several severe skirmishes with the enemy— Being seriously reduced by these exposures, both in Officers and men, and being unfit for military duty, many of them officers & men volun- tarily returned to their homes—They beg also to represent, that after their return a Court Martial was held for the trial of the Officers, who were promptly acquitted, but that the privates not only failed to get a trial, but were peremptorily ordered into active service again. Many who have since returned have rec'd their discharges—Under these cir- cumstances they invoke the favorable consideration of the government, solemnly averring their willingness ever to turn out, when called upon, to repel the invasion of their Country by the Common Enemy. July 4th COL: 3AS: BARBOUR TO Gov: NELSON. Culpeper Co. The Warrant granted for impressing horses, confined the impressing Officers to the Counties contiguous to the march of the Enemy. conse- quently very few have been gotten—Mr. French Strother informs him, that by Act of Assembly they may be taken any where—If his Excel- lency will now foward Warrants, he will undertake to procure some very good horses—When he had the pleasure of seeing him with the Army in Louisa, orders were given to releive the Culpeper Militia then in ser- vice, at the end of two months—He has ordered this releif to march on the 20th inst. July4th BRIO: GENL: G. WEEDON TO THE GOVERNOR. "Dr. Sir, Frederic'sb'g This will be handed to you by Mr. Gray, who goes to Char- lottesville to look after the negroes taken by the Essex militia, with that scoundrel Carre. It seems the negroes are to be considered as prize to the Militia; a circumstance I was ignorant of when they were sent away. it appears but just and no doubt will be admitted, Carre and his. Officers being paroled below, I did not care to put them under guard when they arrived here, tho' having my doubts respecting their honor
Page 199
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 199 had placed four spies over them. they found means to elude them, and 1781. the same night that they were brought up here, broak their parole and July 4th made their escape. I should have advised your Excellency of this before, but had hopes that some of my parties would retake them—they are all come in without gaining the smallest Intelligence of them." * ***** Am with perfect respect & Esteem Yr: Excellencies most ob Servant." COL: WM. CHRISTIAN TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. July 6th "Sir, About February last Genl: Green appointed a number of persons Mahanaim in this State and North Carolina, to wit, William Christian, William Preston, Arthur Campbell, Joseph Martin, Robert Lanier, Evan Shelby, Joseph Williams and John Severe Commissioners, to treat with the Cherokee Indians, and I sent a copy of the Commission to the Execu- tive of Virginia, As a ucgociation of that kind could not be carried on without money, I have made several applications for some: all which have been so unluckey as to pass unnoticed—On the 24th of March, Cols: Campbell, Martin, Shelby and Severe met at Fort P. Henry, and sent off one of the Indian Prisoners to the Cheif of their nation propos- ing a Treaty, and to meet for that end on the 10th of June, at the Great Island of IIolston. These gentlemen afterwards prolonged the time to the 20th of this Instant, expecting that I could attend then, and be able to procure money to carry it on. I have not hitherto been so anxious about succeeding as I am now, because it was rather doubtful whether the nation would send their Representatives to meet or not. But now finding they are actually coming, I trust your Excelly. will pardon mo for troubling the Board once more. I have nothing official from either of the Commissioners, but yesterday two men from Washington in No. Carolina told me that about a weok ago 150 Indians were at Lick Creek on their way to the Island, and that Col: Severe had sent a party of men to Guard them in. Lick Creek is about 30 miles from the Island— To day People from Sullivan County, and others from Washington in Virginia, brings an account that a large Body of them were near the Island, that 600 arc to be there on the 20th, and that Col: Shelby had ordered out the militia of Sullivan to protect them—All these Reports arc convincing to me that they mean to attend. And as it is 130 miles from here to Staunton & from here again to the Island 130 miles, 1 con- clude there is no time to be lost betwixt this day and the 20th Instant, I do not wish in our present situation to recommend giving the Indians .either Arms, Ammunition or imported good*, or even Liquor: but if we mean to negociate at all, we ought to provide Provisions for all that may come, So long as they choose to stay: and it may be necessary to give a few Presents in Horses, or such Things as the neighbourhood
Page 200
200 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. may afford. At the Treaty at the same Place in 1777 came more than July 6th 400 men, women and children attended, and I doubt not but at least as many will now come, and 1 cant think they will wish to go away before the middle or last of August, when they may expect something to cat out of their new crops; the last year's being all destroyed. Contingent charges will be high. Upon this view I am of opinion, not less than £200.000 would answer the Purpose; and I submit to your Honbl. Board whether a Warrant can, with Propriety be ordered. Indeed supposing it to be going out of the Common Road, may it not be supposed that Virginia, when she is advancing millions upon millions for the Conti- nent, will advance this small sum, to be charged with the Rest, rather than suffer a Business of such exceeding great Importance to fail. Allow me to observe to your Excellency, that supplies for an Affair so Delicate as an Indian Treaty in that Part of the Country cannot be procured by impressing, nor fixing certain Prices upon them. If there is no money ready in the Treasury to be spared: the sum the Board chooses to order may be divided in several Warrants, and some of these probably exchanged with sheriffs who have collected public money, and others passed to People who can give large supplies of Provisions: but the ready money would be a great saving—I expect money is better in the neighbourhood of the Island, than in any other Part of this State, and that Things will be got for about 200 for one. Col. Lanier, the first named of the Carolina Commissioners applied to Genl: Green for money & he wrote to him to apply to the Continental Treasury Office in Vir- ginia for £150, in specie; an Extract of that Letter was sent to me, but I could get no money upon it—I shall make no Remarks upon his idea of such Business. I entreat your Excellency and the Honble: the Council to consider what will be the consequence, if the Indians are now Disappointed & hurried off for want of Provisions; and without money is ordered, I see nothing the Commissioners can do, but tell them to go Home as speedily as possible, having no way to procure any Thing for them to subsist on among the white People. If I was certain our affairs were flourishing in South Carolina, I might be less anxious, but of that we have no cer- tainty here. Much depends upon the Fate of Ninety Six, and there is no Account in this Part of the Country, of its Fall. I am doubtful the North Carolina Commrs. have made no Provision for the Treaty: indeed their money will scarcely pass in their own State— ours will, as well as in our own State, (in these two Countys on this side of the mountains), but if they have, the Virginia Commrs. will be as saving as possible, and use all the Economy the service will admit of— as it is very difficult to get an Express to go any Distance, Capt: Mac- corkle the Bearer, has been Kind Enough to offer his service to go down for me: he wants no reward, but if the Auditors will give him a War- rant for his Expences, it will be well Enough. I have now only to beg that your Excellency will not let him be delayed. I am with much deference & Respect your ob Servt."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 201
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 201 DAVID Ross TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. "Sir, July 6th Since I had the pleasure of seeing you, have met Mr. James Maury, Pt. of Fork and find Lord Cornwallis has agreed to grant passports for the safe con- veyance of 400 hhds: of Toba. to Charleston, for the purpose of paying the debts contracted there by the prisoners of the Virginia line, and promises to grant passports for a further quantity if this is found insuf- ficient—his Lordship annexes the following conditions—That none of the Tobo. to be sent, shall go from James or York Rivers—that pass- ports will not be granted to Vessels within their reach—this last expres- sion is rather vague, and may be extended to vessels up any largo Rivers where the British Ships of War can go,—but I cannot think that is his meaning. For several reasons, which I shall communicate when I come down, I wish to send a larger quantity of Tobacco to Charlestown— Upon the whole, this business is now upon a pretty good footing." * ***** I am with the greatest respect &c." W. PORTER JNR: COM. MIL STORES TO COL: DAVIES. July 6th He has been informed by Capt Cocke, that he is much blamed for the Broad Water loss of tho Military Stores at Carter's Ferry, and that he left that Post without giving due notice—He had authority from Major Pryor by let- ter to go to Broadwater, and leave tho stores in the hands of a reliable person. This ho had done and taken his receipt—He then proceeded to Broadwater to have the stores removed, in accordance with instructions, but could not got transportation for the purpose—Had this been feasible, it would have been impossible to have earned them up the country, in as much as the Enemy was at Petersburg—Cornwallis was between him and Charlottesvillo, and after repeated attempts, he found it impossible to go himself without great danger of being captured—Under these circumstances ho had retired to Col: Parker's Camp, and done service there, untill he could communicate with Major Pryor. On the day before he had received Orders from that Officer—He is ready to account for all the Military Stores under his charge, since he had an appointment in the Department. ROBERT MORRISS TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. July 6th "Sir, I do myself the honor to enclose the Copy of an Act of Congress Philadelphia of the 28th of June 1781, from which your Excellency will perceive that I am directed to press a Compliance with the several Requisitions of Congress upon your State. Immediately upon the Receipt of this 26
Page 202
202 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Resolution, I wrote to the Treasury Board, the Commissary General and July 6th Quarter Master. General lor returns, by which to determine the several Balances due. Whenever I shall have received them, I will do myself the honour of addressing your Excellency again on the Subject, and am to pray that in the Interim, measures may be taken within your State, to comply with these several Requisitions as far as they may hitherto have been uncomplied with. the Object of my present Letter is to give you Early notice of that Resolution and further to inform you as the Balance of these Requisitions is the only Fund, from which the Expendi- tures of the Campaign are to be drawn, I must urge the most speedy and punctual Compliance on the Part of the Several States. Your Excellency's good sense will render it unnecessary for mo to dwell on this Subject, and your Regard for the Publick Interest will, I am Confi- dent interest you most deeply in the facilitating a Compliance with this Essential demand. With the greatest respect I have the honor to be Your Excellency's Most obt hbl. Servant." July 6th MAJOR RD :* CLAIBORNE TO COL DAVIES. Sir, Charlottes- Among the number of impossibilities in the Quarter Master's Depart- ville ment, in its present state, tho' indispensably necessary to be done: that Great diffi- of procuring forage is one. It is generally the case, and I should be culty of pro- -|ad Qf vour influence and authority with the County Commissioners, to curing gram, 6 J J J forage, <fcc. deliver it, whenever the Assistant Deputy Quarter Masters may call for it: but I have reference particularly to the post at Staunton. Captain Hamilton writes to me in the most distressing terms, that he cannot obtain a grain, and that a considerable number of Cavalry and Wagon horses there, are now almost perishing—The Express who waits upon you with this, will receive & carry such orders you may think most effectual to Issue upon this occasion. I think Sir, it may not be amiss to mention to you, that as the Assist- ant Deputy Quarter Masters have so willingly undertaken to render their assistance in such points as you have requested, you cannot oblige them more, than by making tho County Commissioners furnish the means of transportation and forage, whenever they may be required. I have the honor to be with great respect & esteem Sir your obedient Servant.
Page 203
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 203 MAJOR JOHN PRYOR TO COL: WM. DAVIES. 1-781. Dear Sir, July 6th With this, I beg leave to trouble you with a Letter to his Excel- Charlottes- leney the Governor, requesting a supply of money to discharge the arrearages of the department, I have been acting in; that is, I mean money borrow'd and advanced; as to pay it is out of the question — I begin to feel myself greatly releived in being informed that the Great scarci- Hhnble Board of War has appointed another person to the post I have ^ been acting in, previous to my appointment from the Baron — as he was his position, appointed some time in the winter, I think it is almost time that we °' should begin to expect him, or at least his plenipo — the Lord prosper & make it easy to him say I — My man being in great want of a pair of shoes, I should be most obliged to you for an order to Capt: Peyton for a pair. I am Dr. Sir Your most obt and very - J. PATILLO, A. COM: OF ISSUES—TO COL: DAVIES. July 6th Dr. Colo., When a man is destitute of moncy, cloaths and friends: he is Near New in my oppinion an object of pity—whether this may be my case or not, I Glasgow will leave it you to judge. when I tell you that I am realy destitute of the Characteris- two former, and if I don't find the latter in you, I am absolutely lacking $.„„ ^ 0&' of the whole—My dear Sir, you was an eye witness to the hard duty I cer for cloth- perform'd at Chesterfield & you may well know likewise that I have ing> &C- never drawn a farthing of pay since I have been in service: & when cloatbing was to be had, I wou'd get nothing but a shirt & a pr: of shoes—The cloathing I brought from home is now worn out & I can scarce hide my nakedness, and as you are the only person that can befriend me in this case, I most humbly request you to give me an order for such necessarys, as you may think proper, as you are well acquainted with my circumstances, as also with what cloathing I have already drawn—if you are Kind enough to give me an order please to send it by Capt: Darby, as I shall have an opportunity of seeing Capt: Peyton soon. I am Dr. Colo., with all due respect Your very humble Servt.
Page 204
204 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. July 6th Charlottes- .ville Urgent re- quest for funds to meet expenses of Department of the South, &c. MAJOR JOHN PRYOR TO Gov: NELSON. Sir, Since I undertook to act as Commissary Genl of Military Stores for the Southern department, a very considerable expence has attended my operations—I represented this matter to the Marquis de Lafayette, who gave me the inclos'd order on the Treasury of this State, I suppose not considering the impropriety of the matter, and not having yet been fur- nished wth money, whilst the Expenses are growing too great for my cir- cumstances or credit, to support much longer, I have to request that you would be pleased to procure me an order for the sum of one hundred & Twenty Thousand dollars on the Treasury to enable me to satisfy the loans that have been made me, and other monies advanced for my depart- ment, for which I will account. I have the honor to be with every sentiment of Respect and Esteem, Your Excellency's Most obedient and very Hble Servt. July 7th Barracks ncar Char- lottes ville CAPT JNO: PEYTON TO COL: DAVIES. Urging the necessity of employing and sending at once a certain num- ber of experienced curriers, and tailors to that place—Col Febiger in command of the Virga. Troops might furnish them—Should this be done, he can supply the Virginia Line, with the necessary shoes and clothing. July 7th Greensville Co. MR. HENRY TAZEWELL TO Gov: NELSON—enclosing letter of Gov: Jefferson to Major Wall, in regard to Mr. Jno: Wickham.* Sir, In November last Mr. Jo. Wickham, a young gentleman who is a native of Long Island, came to Virginia from New York with his uncle Case of Mr. John Wick- ham, &c. *Sahine, in his " Biographical Sketches of Loyalists of the American Revolution", Vol II, p. 427, says, Mr. John Wickham, "entered the Queen's Rangers as an ensign, and at the peace was a captain—and further states that Lieut: Col: Simcoe, the noted commander of that Corps, "speaks of him as an officer of quickness and courage "— These statements do not accord with the facts given in the letters recorded above— The Queen's Rangers, a corps of Loyalists at the time referred to by Sabine, 1777, wore operating in New York and Pennsylvania, and were not transferred to Vir- ginia until 1780— Mr. John Wickham, we find was a minor living with his uncle in Virginia in 1781—It is not probable therefore, that nearly four years before that time, he could have been a prominent officer in an active partisan corps; and should have left that corps, with the prospect of preferment before him—The Wickham mentioned by Sabine,
Page 205
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 205 Edmund Fanning with a view of making this country his place of Resi- 1781. dence after he had qualified himself for the practice of the Law & of July 7th living here during his minority under the directions of his uncle the Rev: William Fanning. But on his arrival at Portsmouth he failed to observe the precautions in coming out, which since, he has found was necessary—He was therefore apprehended in the neighborhood of Genl: Muhlenberg's camp, which was at that time in Nansemond & examined before a Court Martial who came not to a decision as I have been informed, in consequence of Genl: Muhlenberg's orders—After this the Papers & Letters relating to Mr. Wickham were transmitted to Gover- nor Jefferson who in Council came to the determination contained in the inclosed Paper to which I beg leave to refer you. "December 21st 1780"— "Sir, I laid before the Council the Rev: Mr. Fanning's Letter to Mr. Letter en- Tazewedl together with the Letters and other Papers found on Mr. ^azeteil u^ Wickham—The general Expectations of remaining in this country, with Gov. Nelson which the Enemy (and probably) this young Gentleman came into it, [ the political character of the Gentleman under whose Auspices he came, man his not leaving the Enemy 'till they were obliged to retire, and the com- plexion of his own Journals and Letters, are circumstances which place him, in their Belief, among the Enemies of this Country. Nothing appears which even leads to a suspicion that a Difference in political sen- timent was among the motives which led him from his connections with the Enemy to seek a union with this Country. The manner of his effecting his Transition from the one Party to the other, was not likely to produce any other than a hostile Reception—he comes an Enemy from an Enemy, in the midst of our Country, with arms in their Hands, attempts to pass without application to, or Leave. from, any officer civil or military, and to bear Letters, negotiating an Interview between an officer high in the adverse command, and citizens of this State. Under these unfavourable circumstances, the Board cannot but deem him an Enemy, and (being within our Power) a Prisoner of War—They are at was afterwards promoted to a Lieutenancy, and at the peace in 1783 was a Captain, whereas Mr. John Wickham, whose case we find so much absorbing the attention of Mr. Henry Tazewell, was a mere youth in 1781, not in the military service in any capacity but entertaining the purpose to prepare himself for the legal profession, as a citizen of Virginia—It is therefore impossible he could have been a Captain in the British service at the peace several years later. In addition to this, Simcoe in the journal kept of his very active operations in Virginia down to the surrender of his Corps at York town, makes no mention of Lieutenant or Captain Wickham—The latter had been put in command of a body of picked men attached to the Bangers, just previous to their arrival in Virginia, and it is not to be supposed, a young and ambitious officer would have left such a command at such a crisis—The attempt there- fore to identify the Wickham, officer of the Queen's Rangers, with the John Wick- ham, afterwards a distinguished lawyer of Virginia cannot be maintained—
Page 206
206 CALENDAR OF STAtfE PAPERS. 1781. the same time as thoroughly satisfied of the decided principles of Whig- July 7th ism, which have distinguished the character of the Reverend Mr. Fan- ning, that they shall think this young Gentleman perfectly safe under his care, so long as he stays in this State; to him, therefore, they remit him until a flag, daily expected from New York into Potowmack River, shall be returning to that Place, when they shall expect him to take his passage back, first calling on the Commissioner of the War Office to give a Proper Parole— I am Sir with great Respect Your most obedient & humble Servant, TH: JEFFERSON." Major Wall. Failure of Your Excellency will perceive by this, that a Flag was at that time arrive^and expected into Potowmack River from New York, in which it was the conse- intended Mr. Wickham should return to New York. The situation veni'ences'to' nowever of public affairs, or some other cause, having prevented the Mr. Wick- arrival of this Flag, Mr. Wickham has ever since been detained here by Mr. m Fanning as a Prisoner of War. In this situation he is prevented from pursuing the study he intended, for the want of Books and some proper person to instruct him, his parole in some degree tying him down to the neighborhood of his confinement—Besides the disadvantage to which at this time of Life this subjects him, your Excellency will easily conceive how disagreeable his situation must be, while it not only cuts him off from any public Academical Instruction in the way of his study, but in a manner forbids the intercourse which he otherwise might have with those persu- ing the same study with himself, greatly to his disadvantage—notwith- standing all these things however, if the releasement of this young gen- tlemen, or an extension of his Parole could in any wise injure the Com- monwealth, I hope I should be among the last who would solicit for either—It appearing from the enclosed paper to have been the design of the Executive to permit Mr. Wickham to return to New York and my being thoroughly satisfied that no evil can result from it, I must beg the favour of you to lay the matter before the Council, if you yourself be not vested with sufficient powers to decide on the subject and obtain a grant leave, if it be not thought inconsistent with the public Interest, for Mr. Wickham to return to New York to his relatives & connections on Parole—Possibly on his way he may effect his Exchange in Ports- mouth for some of our prisoners in the Enemys hands at that place— Altho' he has considered himself a prisoner on Parole ever since the inclosed determination, yet he ncver has signed any particular parole, so that if leave should be granted him to return, he will be considerably releived by having Colo. Parker or some other officer, on this side the River, authorized to take his parole—I sometime ago delivered the par- ticulars of this case to one of the Council to which & to Colo. Mason the bearer hereof, I refer you for any further particulars you may wish
Page 207
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 207 to know respecting this matter—We have a report prevailing in this 1781. part of the country that Genl: Greene has reduced Augusta & Ninety July 7th Six, and that the Enemy have evacuated Savannah—whether it is true or not, time will discover—After congratulating you on your late hon- orable appointment, and beging pardon for having so far troubled you as this letter probably will, I must beg your Excellency to return me an answer by Colo. Mason. I have the honor to be, with the greatest regard & Esteem, your most obt. Sevt., HENRY TAZEWELL. Grcensville July 7th 1781. SAMP: MATHEWS TO THOS: NELSON ESQ Gov. July 7th Sir, Agreeable to your orders, I sent an officer to offer the insurgents the Staunton terms on which your Excellency would grant them Pardon—those insur- gents in this county & Rockingham cheifly assembled where the officer I sent & an officer from Rockingham attended—they appeared very sub- In regard to missive & Delivered up their officers, viz Capt: Wm. Ward & Lieut: ^g^'in Lewis Baker, who were both brought to this Place on the 5th Instant Augusta and & uppon being Examined before mo & upon the Testimoney of Several Rockin6ham Witnesses, it apear'd to me that they had been guilty of Treason agt. the State & accordingly their are Both committed to close goal & an Examining Court ordered on Friday, the 13th Instant—in the course of the Testimony aduced I was obliged to admitt as Evidence, two of the insurgents on beehalf of the Commonwealth, who were very Backward in giving in their Testimoney, but by Cross Examining them the Truth came out—they as well as several others of the witnesses are in very Low circumstances & not able to support themselves to Travel to Richmond to prosecute the Prisoners—there are two or throe more of the Principles I Expect in daily & I am Doubtfull that the witness will fail to attend to prosecute, & if the do attend & no onc at the Trial that knows all the circumstances of the matter & that is personaly aquinted with them, they will Evade the matter as much as possible & by that means the Insurgents may escape punishment; which will be produc- tive of the worst consequences—in Speaking of the witnesses, I mean these two Insurgents admitted on behalfe of the Commonwealth, who are the only ones that can Give the facts—Should your Excellency & the Council think Propper to appoint Judges & a Court of oyer, to be held here on the third Tuesday in August next, it would save Expence & the Ring Leaders of the Insurgents would Receive their Deserts— Please give the messenger, Mr. Owens, Dispatch, as it will be necessary that he Return here at or before the Call Court, in order that the wit- nesses may be Bound to Prosecute at the Place apointed—I have the Honor to be with Respect & esteem Sir, your obdt & humble Servt.
Page 208
208 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. "N. B. Please give the Express an Order To the Auditors' to allow July 7th him hire for himself & horse & finding both 120 miles going & the same Returning." Dr. Sir, July 7th The arms you mention in your favor 24th ult: rcc'd this Morn- Frederic'sb'g ing, amounting to near 800, wero contrary to my orders stored at Fau- quier Ct: House, the Marquis having communicated to me his want of them, I sent waggons from hence & they have been delivered into his Park, full 14 days ago. July 7th GENL: WEEDON TO COL: VVii. DAVIES. In regard to By advice from the Board of War Phila., upwards of 4000 stand have and" disposi-*1 been selit from tnat placc for the Use of tnc State since Al)ril last> tion of them, Rout by Noland's Ferry where an Officer has been stationed to receive money7 &c & foward as directed. he is to remain there on that duty 'til the 10th of the Month. My last Orders were to store all such as were not par- ticularly desired to another point of destination, at Fauquier Ct. House, from whence they may be disposed oft', as the Board may please to direct. The Northern Neck, being almost drained in the first of the Invasion, it will be proper to supply the exposed counties with some. Fairfax county, for instance, has only forty stand at present in it, & Prince William but 83 Guns, including Every Kind — Westmoreland, Richmond, Lancaster & Northumberland are also feeble in point of defence. 800 stand is absolutely necessary for the immediate supply of those coun- ties — our greatest fear from his Lordship now is his penetrating up Potowmack — I have full hopes of an ample supply of arms for all our purposes, by the vigilence & activity of our Friend Grayson — ho writes me, 26th ult; that Swords & Pistols (for which I had wrote him) would be immediately sent foward — I had also seen the loss of Ammunition for want of Cartouch Boxes & well knowing the evil could not speedily be removed from a supply in the State, wrote to him to think of us on that score also. he tells me 1000 are screwed out, for our use & will shortly be here — also 200.000 M. Cartridges which are sent off * Pledged his private es- tate, &c. With respect to Boats, I have used every method in my power to get 6 Built at this Place & Alexandria & had actually agreed upon terms five weeks ago, but for want of money have not got them finished, nor is there the least probability without the ready cash, the credit of the country being so very low it utterly impossible to engage the most tri- fling article upon trust, tho' I pledged my own Estate for the payment of four that were agreed for at Alexandria & two at this place—This necessary Business may be renewed, if money is sent to Enable the workmen to go on. Since sitting down to write have received a Letter
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 209
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 209 from the Officer stationed at Noland's Ferry, Copy of which is enclosed— 1781. You had better give some directions respecting the supplies coming from July 7th the Northward—I think Winchester a secure place for your principle Nowland's magazines, but must beg you to permit 800 Stand to come here; they -vyCnchester will be convenient to send to the Marquis should he want a further sup- ply, or if the Enemy move up Potowmac, they will be also convenient for immediate Service. Grayson's report 1st June is as follows— Sent on \ 11^ property of the State from fi. Island / 1000 do: arms repaired 1000 do ready ) .,. r,, T,,., J \ at this Place Phila. 500 Continental J 1000 do, on their way from West Point 4600 in all. I am your mo: obt Servant. P. S. Thanks to you for your Southern Intelligence, I hope ere this Postscript that the second edition from "96" is ready for publication. Our affairs in that Quarter are of the most pleasing , And I have not a doubt but the old Dominion will Extricate Herself with equal Honor, notwith- standing her neighbors have sett with folded Arms while she was so cruelly pressed; but whoso afraid ?—the more danger, the more Honor— Steady & spirited Exertions for a few months longer will do our Busi- ness. Your Affec: G. W. Letter referred to above. "Noland Ferry 29th June 1781. "DearGonl: In my last letter to you dated the 26th Inst, I gave an account of the People's unwillingness to assist in fowarding the Military Stores for the use of the Southern Army—I had rec'd but 355 musk & 89. Bayonets—Since I have rec'd 266 musk. 189 Bayts. 475 mus—& 132 Bay," sent by Mr. Nicholson for this State— * * ****** I have ordered Benjn Walker to the Marquises' Camp, his rout by Fredg., as will appear by his note of directions—His Load 127 muskt. with Bay & 76 Cartouch Boxes loose—I have this day rec'd 46 Boxes of Cartgs. Flints &c. which I have stored at Leesburg untill I can got Waggons &c." * * * I am &c. 27
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 210
210 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. DAVID Ross TO COL: WM. DAVIES. July 7th Sir, Richmond I shall be much obliged to you for the Acts of Assembly of the Oct: Debts due in Session & the Journals of Congress from Octbr till April last—I think hov/-tobe 4^e several Claimants against this State for debts due in the Western paid Country must apply to Congress for paymt—I think it was on these terms that Country was relinquished to the United States. I am Sir Your most obt. July 7th MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Charlottes- I did myself the honor to address your Excellency by letter on the e 26th of June, transmitting at the same time, inclosed my arrangement for the Quarter Masters Department upon the Continental Establishment in this State, with Copies of sundry Papers laid before the honorable the house of assembly, requesting their attention and decision as early as possible, but have not been honor'd with a reply. A particular instance of the necessity of having the wagons mentioned by me to your Excellency, for the Commissary's Department, is repre- sented by Mr. John Brown, Commissioner of the Provision law for this State. He proposes to have a large Magazine of provisions at Rich- mond. It is very well known that there are no wagons in that country, so that unless they can be furnished from some other post, the provisions cannot be transported. Perhaps Mr. Brown may be fortunate enough to procure a Brigade or two, by virtue of the orders given by Governor Jefferson to the County Commissioners, but it will be a tedious piece of business and consequently of little effect. I find it necessary to acquaint your Excellency that the former Coun- cil at Richmond (as some of the honorable members who act in the present must remember) promised to Col: Carrington and myself, who made the arrangement for the Quarter Master's department in this State and obtained their approbation, that they would support it—As I have not been furnished with a farthing of money or an article of stores from the northward, and as I do not much expect any, my only dependence is still on the government of Virginia. Therefore I hope your Excel- lency will consider that the former promise is as necessary at this time, and adopt such measures as you think best. Without an immediate sum of money, the greater part of the men in the department will leave me. the Officers may remain, as few of them are dependant upon the public for support, but the workmen will not, because they subsist upon their wages and cannot do without. What money is due from the Treasury upon the Warrants, I have obtain'd,
Page 211
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 211 will not pay up what is now owing to the Artificers, and unless more attention is paid to the press, by the person whose business it is, than has been the case for some time past, we need not pretend to make a contract for money. The Printer is yet delay'd for want of Oyl, and cannot furnish himself in any part of this country. I beg your Excellency for Orders of Five hundred thousand & two hundred thousand pounds each to the amount of Six Millions of pounds. This sum, if obtained early will enable me to pay off a considerable part of the debts already due in the department and to set the business in motion; but if it is not done in a short time, double the sum will not be sufficient, as the depreciation increases very rappidly. I have the honor to be with the highest respect Your Excellency's most obet, Humble Servant." 1781. July 7th MAJOR CHRISTIAN HOLMER TO Gov. NELSON July 7th Congratulating him on his late Election—Is a stranger here; had lost Richmond two horses in the service & has had no pay for ten months—has been absent from Virginia three years—has spent his little fortflne in the army, having served six years, and should ncver be fit for field service again—Is now "Bliest to sell one thing alter a other to maintain me with" but rejoices in his present condition, "for all the whole Town is Small-pox full of Small Pox"—&c—Begs once more for his pay. CAPT THOS: W. EWELL TO COL: DAVIES. July 8th Has arrived at that Post, as ordered, but finds himself surrounded by Pt. of Fork the Small Pox—many of the men had not had the disease, and therefore Small-pox begs ("as there is a Doctor belonging to the Regiment") that innocula- tion be allowed &c. LETTER FROM GEORGE NICHOLSON, by order of David Ross (Commis- sioner of Arms for Jftate of Virga) TO BRIG: GENL: DANL: MORGAN. July 8th Advising hinr'of his proposed shipment of arms and accoutrements for Philadelphia one hundred.Cavalry to Winchester, from Philadelphia—That all neces- sary military supplies might be procured at that place except caps but for the wiint of money. Will send steel sufficient to make 200 swords, which Ije is informed can be manufactured at Winchester. .
Page 212
212 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT THOS. MARTIN, 5xe VA. REGT., TO COL: DAVIES. July 9th Staunton Requesting the return to him, of certain descriptive lists of men received at that Place, carried off by mistake &c. July 9th COL TURNER SOUTHALL TO COL: DAVIES. On behalf of seven men of the militia, ordered by Court Martial to serve six months in the army; who had made every effort to do their duty, but from ignorance, and distressed condition of their families had subjected themselves to trial &c. July 9th CAPT: LEVIN WALKER TO COL: WM. DAVIES at Charlottesville. James City Making application for his pay &c. July 9th Letter of de- fence against charges of having shown the enemy the public stores, Ac. J. WARE TO CAPT: SAMUEL JONES, Point of Fork. Sir, • It gives me much Pain & uneasiness to learn that my conduct & behaviour* during the time the Brittish was at my house has been censured—I am informed it is reported that immediately after the Enemy came to my house, I told them where the public Stores lay, and very officiously offer'd to show them—The enemy had not the smallest occasion of this Information from me, for he, the Commander had learned every circumstance relative to the public stores before he came to my house—He knew they were first lodg'd in my mill and afterwards removed on the opposite side of the river to a Tobacco house of John Douglas's & from thence removed to an Island belonging to Douglas adjacent thereto. All these things, I say he knew and told me & askd me whether it was not So—I told him I had heard it was, but did not know certainly as I had never seen them—He then got possession of three Canoes, ordered them to be filled with Soldiers & demanded I should go with them to the -JJlaaj^vhere I thought the stores lay—I objected to this, and urged the Danger'TJ^being shot at or wounded by our guard—He then proposed to prevent any- Affusion of Blood, that I would go alone to the guard and let them know he was at my house with a Considerable Body of Horse and three hundred foot, laying a small distance off, & give up the Powder, or stay till became with his men and take Paroles—That if these proposals were refined, he was determined to bring up his men, Cross the River & invest tfcte Place on every side, which he might have done—Now Sir, it must be c^bvious to : i •
Page 213
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 213 you & to every 'one else, leting our men have previous notice of the 1781. Enemy's coming must have been attended with considerable advantage July 9th to the Guard, as they would had time to have posted themselves in the best manner—Had I have not gone, the two young men would have been infallibly killed or taken, and had there been a sufficient guard to have made any opposition, they might have done it, with every possible advantage their situation & the circumstances would have admitted, by having previous notice of the Enemy's coming— The two young men, thinking it more advisable to give up the Powder & go off, insisted I would certify the truth of the matter, as least they should be taken up as Deserters, which 1 did—Now if there is anything in this conduct of mine blameable, it really is incomprehensible to me, & must be imputed to wrong Judgment of matters— I am Sir, your most Obt Hble Svt— COL: GEO: SKILLERN TO GOV'R NELSON. July lOth Sir, There is about forty or fifty of the Militia of this County who was BotetourtCo. formerly ordered to the Ade of the Marquis in Virginia, there to con- tinue two months in the field, who has fail'd to march & are by the Sentence of a Court Marshill, Judged to serve six months, as the Law Directs, for Disobedience of Orders, but as there is no recruiting Officer in this County, would request your Excellency's Instructions respecting what is to be done with them—There is also sum Soldiers enlisted for Eighteen months, three years and During the ware, in consequence of the eighteen months Drafts, but as the Draft has not Ben put in Prose- cution, would want to know how they are to get their Bounty & what is to be done with them— With respect to the provisions and spirits to be Collected by the Com- missioners of this County, I have called upon them, who sent me a state of their accts: which I Send herewith—Last April Botetourt Court 1781, William Mclenachan gentlm, was recommended to his Excellency governor Jefferson as a fit person to Execute the office of a Major of the Militia 'in this County, but the Confusion the State was in at that time & the great Seal being taken away by the Clark, No Commision was sent, and as he will probably be Ordered on Duty before Long would request your Excellency to Send his Commision by the Bearer— I shall use every Efforts in my power to have the Deserters in this County aprehended as soon as I can—Aney orders your Excellency may please to Send, Respecting the above, I will Indeavour punctually to perform. I have the honor to be your Excellency's Most obt & very Humble Servt—
Page 214
214 CALENDAR OF STAf E PAPERS. 1781. COL: GEO: SKILLEBN TO COL: WM. DAVIES. July 10th Botetourt Co He has sent as required, a wagon, team and appendages—will collect the clothing for the troops as soon as he can—No Lead has been lodged at Crows Ferry, or he should have sent it down—On account of an alarm from Bedford Ct House Col: Wm. Calloway had sent off the pub- lic stores to Crow's Ferry in that county &c. July 10th Richd Graham informs Col: Davies, the specific tax for Prince William Dumfries Co. has been paid in corn (maize) and delivered as ordered by Mr. Brown. July llth CAPT: SAML: JONES TO CAPT H. YOUNG (Q. M.) at Richmond. Carter's The artificers arranged and furnished with every thing necessary to ^ building boats—the necessity of procuring oakhum, Tar &c:—may be gotten by burning a tar Kiln, and asking for three thousand pounds to replace a sum he was obliged to borrow. July llth SAML: JONES TO COL: DAVIBS. Sir, Carter's Your approbation of my conduct gives me great pleasure. I can err^ assure you I shall endeavour to merit it in future—Every method to In regard to recover the plundered stores has been ineffectual—When I requested the away by"'6*1 State Regiment to be sent to the Point of Fork, I had formed a design of plunderers, searching every suspected place, in so short a time as not to spread an alarm—this I Kept a profound secret & waited the arrival of the Troops to put my scheme in Execution—the building of boats obliged me to leave the Fork—Capt Ewell arrived in my absence & proceeded to search one or two places without my knowledge or even letting me know he was ordered on that business—this step of his totally abolish'd my former plans—we made a search, but it had become so publick that very little was collected—One of the Principal Plunderers happens to come under the martial law—I have confined him—he was very impertinent for a day or two, but has since offered to discover his associates and show us a large quantity of stores, provided he can obtain his liberty— 1 think he may be of essential service if properly mannaged—Your advice on this head will be necessary. I shall leave this place in a few days—Capt: Woodson has taken care of the stores recovered hitherto, and appears willing to use his best endeavours to recover as many as possible—this is a blotted scrawl, which you will please to excuse & beleive me, With great respect & Esteem Your most obt Sevt.
Page 215
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 215 BRIO: GXNL: I>AM.: MORGAN TO THE GOVERNOR. 1781. Sir, July 12th Col: White of the first Regiment of light Dragoons will have the Camp honour of handing you this: he has nearly Horses and Men enough to compleat his Regiment, but will not be able to bring his men into the field so as to render their. services useful until they are cloathed. I must therefore request you will be so obliging as to give the necessary orders to accomplish this business without loss of time—The Honble Major General Marquis de la Fayette has thought proper to put the Cavalry under my command, and I need not suggest to your Excellency that they are much wanted in the field to prevent the depredations of the Enemy— I have the Honour to be with respect and Esteem Your Excellency's most obt, humbl Servt. P. S. Many impositions respecting this State being daily talked of in camp: I have desired Col: White to give your Excellency a detail of them, together with my sentiments. JNO: MAOILL TO Gov: NELSON. July 12th "Sir, The inclosed Letter* addressed to the Gentlemen nominated in the Gill Hall Commission in conjunction with myself, will in part inform You of the steps taken by mo to carry it into Execution—At the Same time I wrote the County Lieut: of Hampshire, that I should attend, & inclosed him a Precept to the Sheriff to summons Jurys accordingly. Tho' I was well aware there cou'd not be fifteen Days clear between its Toste & Return, which according to the established Practice in England there ought to have been, nor cou'd I find any Rule relative thereto laid down in any of our Acts of Assembly—Pursuant to my Letter, I proceeded to Houses' Ordinary on Sundays' Evening and waited there untill next morning at 9-o-clock, when, on finding not one of the other Gentlm to appear & knowing it cou'd answer no Purpose what ever, to go up alone, I embraced the Opportunity of a Residonter in Hampshire, who was accidently returning home, to acquaint Col: Vanmeter by Letter, that he need not expect me for these and other Reasons therein mentioncd & accordingly returned to my Residence— Your Excellency must excuse mo, when I assure you, I was far from being Sorry that the Purpose of the Comm'n was defeated, more parti- cularly when it was owing to no Default of mine, as Nothing but the Duty which I thought I owed my Country, and that high Respect which *Not found.
Page 216
216 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. ought to be paid to You as tho supremo execute Magistrate thereof, July 12th eou'd possibly have induced me to act therein, tho' on receiving it, I at once determined So to do, notwithstanding the Inconvenience of the Season, being tho Middle of Harvest. Tho extrcam Disagrceableness of the office & being So totally out of Ahe Line of my Practice, as of all tho Four mentioned in the Commn, I am the only Lawyer, who at present attends Hampshire Court. Your Excellency, I hope will pardon me, when I take the Liberty of saying, that in my opinion, the Judges of the General Court & they only ought to Act on matters so nice, so delicate, nay, so arduous, difficult & disagreeable as a Commn of Over & Tcrmincr. It is Strictly their Office & by Study & Practice they have made themselves Masters of it—Theirs is the Honour, Theirs the Emoluments, and why shou'd they not take whatever may be troublesome or disagreeable therein—No man of Sen- sibility, ever pronounced the Common and ordinary Sentence of Death, much more than the Solemn Judgment in Treason, even upon the most notorious offender, but where a due Sense of the Duty ho owed his Country & of a proper Execution of tho Office he filled, called aloud upon him so to do. The Act of Parliament of the 8th R. 2. enacts, that no Man of tho Law, shall from thence forth be Justice of Assize, or of the Common Deliverance of Goals, in his own County. & tho 33d H. 8. enacts that no Justice or other Man, learned in tho Law, shou'd exercise the Office of Justice of Assize within any County where ho was born or inhabited, upon pain to forfeit £100—And these Statutes have always been con- strued to extend to Justices of Oyer & Tcrmincr—I am well aware that the Stat: of the 12th Geo: 2. has taken away the Penalty, but every Gentlem of the Law, who has- been in England knows the general Prac- tice to conform to the old Law. This needs no Comment—Your own good Sense will & must furnish better than any I can offer— I have too long troubled your Excellency, but can't conclude without observing that tho' the Act of Ass'y impowers You to nominate three or more Gent'n learned in the Law &c, The present Comm'n is directed to four of us by name, without saying "or any three," for which reason, unless we all had attended I shou'd have been of the Opinion, we cou'd not have proceeded, as all delegated authority must be construed strictly. This with the Hint thrown out in the beginning of this Letter, relative to the Precept to the Sheriff may perhaps merit your consideration, as giving orders to make out a future Commn. These Hints, if I had not thought them material, as also that my Duty required it, I shou'd not have taken the Liberty of troubling Your Excellency with. If they are not, my Judgement, not Will has erred. For be assured, I Am, with the highest sentiments of Respect, & Esteem, your Excellency's most obt & Very Hble

This page contains an image.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 217
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 217 CAPT: LEONARD COOPER TO THE EXECUTIVE OF VIRGINIA. 1781. July 12th He entered the service, in the Virginia Line as an officer in Jany: Philadelphia 1776, and rose to the Command of a Company in the 4th Regt: Col: Barracks Nevil—Lost his leg in Oct: 1779, which has transferred him to the Invalid Regt; his thigh being cut off so high as to require the use of Crutches—He therefore begs to be allowed a horse and forrago, as is allowed by other States in similar cases. COL: TURNER SOUTHALL TO COL: DA VIES. July 12th "Sir, I received yours by Express, mentioning Guards to be furnished to night—I fear the day is too far advanced to accomplish it; and as to a guard at Richmond, it will not be possible on account of the Small pox—& when the guards are got, they have neither Arms or Ammu- nition they having been all that could be collected, sent to the Army before— I am, your most obt &c" CIRCULAR, from Thos: M. Kean Prest. of Congress, enclosing to the July 12th Executive of Virginia, Rosolutions of Congress, requiring all French Seamen, employed in the service of the States or any Citizen thereof, to be delivered up at once, to the Count do Barras, "or any person appointed by him to receive the same"-r- This having become necessary to the proper manning of the Squadron Philadelphia under his command—Commissioned Officers of the American Forces, enjoined under severe penalties, to observe this Order, and the State authorities requested to aid in its prompt execution— Major Rd: Claiborne informs Col: Davis of his inability to have the July 13th carriages for the boats made—harness is made at Staunton. Charlottes- Capt: Hamilton is Seriously in want of forage; his horses starving, and he cannot carry on the transportation. CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: DAVIES. July 13th All his wagons have gone off fifteen miles for flour: he will send up "Junk sufficient to caulk the Boats—Tar must be burnt"— &c. 28
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 218
218 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JOHN WEBB TO THE EXECUTIVE. July 14th Essex Co. IB regard to claim of Mrs. Webb for her negro Slave "Robins," car- ried off by Capt: Carre and his crew, who were afterwards captured by a party of volunteers under Webb's Command—Among the prisoners were three men from the Eastern Shore of Maryland, one Stringfield "a most infamous Character" and five other negroes brought from Porte- mouth by Carre by permission of Genl: Leslie, all bearing arms— July Hth WILLIAM DA VIES TO "THE LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR." "Sir, War Office It is evident from daily complaint from the Marquis and others, that there is great mismanagement in the department of Commissary of provision. There seems great reason to believe that Mr. Brown does not know where the public Stores are lodged, what they consist of, or what quantitys are collected—The distress and oppression of the inhabi- tants in the vicinity of our Camp, in consequence of the Commissary's deficiency, is too painful to be recited—Alienation of the affections of the people, famine and ruin are the consequence. The Marquis' Army has beon frequently compelled to seize the cattle of the inhabitants for their sustenance, while the troops under Col: Parker on the South side of the river, have had no other support at all, than by those oppressive and ruinous seizures. I have made repeated applications to Mr. Brown for a return of the general state, situation and quantity of his Stores, but have ncver received the least information from him. Almost every deputy of his in the counties that I have Seen, complain to me that they can never obtain a Single lino from him, notwithstanding repeated let- ters to him on business. Under all these circumstances, I must Solicit an Order from the Executive addressed to mo officially to obtain from Mr. Brown, a gene- ral return of the quantity of his Stores, and the places where they are lodged; and as it may possibly be judged expedient by government to remove him from his appointment. Should the present complaints con- tinue, which might probably, for a short time, subject the Army to want, till his successor could put matters in a proper train, I would therefore respectfully submit it to government, whether it will not be highly proper to Send three or four persons into different quarters of the Coun- try, to enquire into the state and Situation of his Stores—It will give government much information, and will enable them to take such measures occasionally, for the security of the public stores, as to them shall seem best, and in Some measures put out of the enemy and others, to destroy or pilfer the public supplies, with impunity— I have the honor to be, with great Esteem your most obedient & very hble Servant.
Page 219
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 219 WILLIAM DAVIES TO THE HONBLE LIEUT: GOVERNOR, DAVID JAMIISON. 1781. •<g;r, July 14th The great necessity there is for Cavalry for the protection of the War Office State, induces me to Solicit the attention of government to the following plan, which I think will be productive of much advantage to our opera- tions of defence, and I hope will be found neither disagreeable nor burthensome to the people in the execution. From the returns of the militia on this side the Allegany, there appears to be ncar 50,000 fighting men; a great number of those would prefer serving on horseback, and would equip themselves accordingly, could they have any assurance that they should • always act as cavalry when called out, and that they should not be subject to longer tours of duty than are required from other militia. Should government think proper to order that one man in a hundred should be allotted to this service, it would form a body of near 500 men, or of a thousand should the requisition be made for one fiftieth man. Altho' the number may appear largo in the gross, yet when apportioned to the different counties, as in the inclosed list, I am persuaded it will appear inconsiderable—The necessary weapons such as swords or Spears, and perhaps pistols too, might with much more care be procured in their different counties by the men themselves, than by the public, and as probably the corps would consist chiefly of men of property, it should be left to their option either to hold then- equipments as thoir own, or to deliver them up to the public, upon an engagement to pay the value: As for their horses, they ought to be secured against every thing but negligence. There might possibly be some difficulty in the appointment of the Officers, as few Counties would be able to furnish a troop individually—The field Officers should be appointed by government itself, the Captains and Subalterns might be recommended by a meeting of field Officers from Such Counties or dis- tricts respectively, as are to make up a Troop, giving preference in their recommendations to persons of experience. The house of dele- gates, at their late Session passed a bill with a Clause in it for selecting every tenth man, for the purpose of forming a Corps of Militia Cavalry: but the number of 5,000 which it would amount to, was So much beyond the abilities of the Country to equip or support, that the Clause was struck out by the Senate, on that principle— The urgency of the Marquis' requisitions on this head, seem to demand the attention of government to it; and oven if government should not conceive themselves authorized to establish this, as a permanent system yet the present situation of the Country, and the mode of warfare the enemy have adopted seem strongly to warrant it: at any rate there can- not be many objections why the proposal might not go forth in the form of a recommendation, with an engagement, which I think will effec- tually ensure the success of it, that the horse of every trooper, (which
Page 220
220 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. ho should be required to register the description of, with the County July 14th Lieut: to prevent frauds) should be exempt and protected from impress- ments. Should government think the proposal worthy their attention, it may without difficulty be more minutely defined, the quotas precisely ascertained, and the Counties Classed into districts: and then such recommendation or order may be given, as to your honorable board Shall Seem best— I have the honor to be Sir, Your most humble Servt." July 16th JOHN BLAIR TO Gov: NELSON. WilHamsb'g Requesting permission to obtain a "Flag" for the purpose of endea- vouring to recover the absconding Slaves of Mrs. Tazewell a widow, he being one of the Executors of her Husband's Will—Trusts the indul- gence will be granted "it being the case of a worthy widow, reduced to a considerable degree of Distress by an almost total Desertion of her Family Servants." July 16th MAJOR JOHN PRYOR TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Dear Sir, Charlottes- Yours of the 12th Came to hand yesterday, by Express. I ville thank you for your approbation of my Conduct in my department. I have only to lament that my endeavours have not been crowned with that success I could have wish'd for. from the ruinous punctillio in the Q. M. not furnishing the necessary materials for the Artificers their num- bers have increased to near 20, and now all standing Idle, & the Head man wishing to decline the business, thinking his dependence very un- certain, the men also growing uneasy. I am afraid I shall loose the whole of them. I have wrote to Capt: Bohannan to come over, & will turn them all over to him, who I expect can be furnished with materials. I don't know when I found myself more mortified, than in this affair. I know I have acted strictly conformable to my appointment and the nature of my instructions from Baron de Steuben, to whom I have fully represented the whole of this refusal in Claiborne & who pays no atten- tion to it. I shall continue unweariedly to promote the department 'till the D. F. C. M. St. Comes on, when I am determined to take a little respite. If you will recommend the Office of Com: Prisoners to me & think me capable of filling it, and no indelicacies could be offered to the Present Person in that post, rather than to be Idle, I would act, should it be thought proper to be conferr'd on me—previous to your informa- tion respecting the Enemy Mr. D. Ross sent me an Express wth an account that they were at Amelia Co House on Thursday Evening. I
Page 221
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 221 immediately sent off an Officer Express to New London, to have the 1781. whole of the Military Stores removed over the Ridge, from that place. July 16th I sent an Express to Capt: Bohannan also, and have call'd upon Major Claiborne, without success for waggons to be in readiness to remove the stores from this place—The Marquis has directed me to Send 300 Stand of Arms to General Lawson—If it was to save life, waggons could not be procured within a week—I am sick of the whole world." * ***** I have the honor to be Dr Colo yours respectfully." SAMUEL EDDINS, CAPT: OF ARTILLERY TO Gov: NELSON. July 16th He rec'd orders from the Marquis some time ago, to remove one of Gloucester his "French 18 pounders" away, but has brought it back to this place— The battery is Complete, but he wants powder—A Pilot Boat seized some time ago by order of the Baron, belonging to a gentleman in Mary- land, "is sunk in Sarah's Creek," and might be sold advantageously. Commodore Barren has lent him "a large Whale Boat built for the use of this State," and should he get any intelligence will be enabled to send it, if he remains near this Post. ROBT: MORRIS TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. July l6th "Sir, I had the honor to inform your Excellency on the 6th inst: of an Philadelphia Act of Congress of the 28th June last, directing me to press a Com- pliance with the several Requisitions of Congress, on your State. I am not yet in Condition to State the Account of Specific supplies, but I enclose you a certified Copy of the account of your State for moncy; by which it appears that there is due to the United States 36,416,659 25-100 Dollars of the old Emission, and 1,958,963 of the new, exclusive of the 4-10th due by the Resolution of the 18th March 1780. Your Excellency will be able to determine how much has been paid, as also how much of the specific Supplies has been furnished—the remainder of those sup- plies forms an additional Balance due to the United States, which it is my duty to urge the Payment of. I am therefore to request that you will be pleased to lay these matters before the Legislature of your State, and intreat their Compliance with the Requisitions of Congress—Your Excellency must be sensible of the Impracticability of carrying on the War, unless the State Cheerfully furnish the means. Whatever they grant, will I trust be faithfully applied, so as to produce the greatest good to the whole; but if the means be withheld, those, and those only who are instrumental in it, must be chargeable with the Consequence.
Page 222
222 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Having the most thorough Reliance on Your Excellency's Disposition July 16th to promote the Publick Cause, I earnestly recommend to you, this very important Object. With every Sentiment of Respect, I have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedt Humble Servt." July 16th DAVID Ross TO COL: DA VIES. Richmond Received his of the 13th on yesterday at "the Fork"—A report pre- vailing a few days that the Enemy was about to pay another visit to that neighborhood on the South side, had detained him there a few days— Encloses estimate of arms "rec'd since the 1100"—Has procured Sad- dles and other accoutrements Complete for "100 horse." July 16th M A.I'R WM. CAHPBBLL, INSPECTOR OF MlLITIA DIVISION TO €rOV: NELSON. Camp Mai- Excusing himself for not sooner sending returns of the two Militia vern i s Brigades, «witii tne dates they join'd the Army & Countries to which they severally belong"—owing to the scarcity of paper. July 16th BRIG: GENL: G. WEEDON TO COL. DAVIES. "Dr. Sir, Frederic'sh'g Your favor reached me last night—a small Magazine of Arms here would run no risque of falling into the hands of the Enemy, as they never could point this way, but the Militia in the Northern Neck could be call'd out & armed—this part of the State has ever been considered as an object worthy of the attention of the Foe—it surely ought to have the means of defence, without which it is Subject to be struck by every Small force from Potomack as the arms that government thought proper to lodge in the Counties for the protection of that River, were mostly taken down in the first of the Invasion—The Marquis thinks the secu- rity of this place & the defence of Potomac of so much consequence to the public that he will not suffer me to join Him, and must therefore insist upon having as many Arms as may be necessary for that Service. Should the Enemy point up Potomac, they would immediately be put into the Hands of the Militia who arc allotted for the defence of that River. I have however wrote government upon the subject & make no doubt they will see the propriety of having the Counties in the North- ern Neck armed as before the Invasion. Since my last to you, the 4 Boats contracted for at Alexandria are finished—the next thing is Car-
Page 223
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 223 riages to transport them on. Col: Hendricks writes me it is utterly 1781. impossible to procure them—would it not be proper to obtain a Warrant July 16th from government authorizing Him to make use of military impress, or furnish Him with money to procure them." * * * * "Some immediate Steps should be taken with the Stores at Fauquier Co House, Leesburg & Noland's Ferry. Mr. Summers, the Officer Stationed there to receive & Store them writes me they are Sent on in a very irregular manner, Some of which have no invoice, others, a number of Loads included in one, and others undoubt- edly pilfered, as no Guard Comes on with them. I am Dr Col: Your obedt Servt &c." JohnLightfoot, Asst: C. H.—represents to Col: Davios, the impossi- July 17th bility of furnishing leather for the Quarter M. Department—He hopes Albemarle Capt: John Peyton the Clothier Genl's suggestion that Curriers be Sent Barracks up from the Marquis' Army—where there are many who know how to dross leather. JMO. ROBBRTSON, ISSUING COMMISSARY, TO COL: DAVIES. July 17th "Dr Colonel, At last I have got as much time as to let you know my Camp at Situation, wch I must needs Say is almost deplorable. The Issuing HiJjsourn* department in the field is in Such confusion that words cannot express. I am however, happy to find the difft Posts in the State regulate them- selves agreeable to your Orders, and my appointment. The Issuing departnt in the field has been headed (I must not say Governd) by one who dont know an Assistant's duty himself. Repeated applications have been made to me by George Elliott who is Commissn Genl: of Issues, to take and Settle his accompts—they are in Such confusion, that mortal man can never find right or left of them— I have rec'd from those Issuing Commrs that I appointed myself, at the difft Posts, proper and regular returns, but here in Camp is no regu- larity, waste of Stores, no accts kept, nor Proper Rec'ts taken. Since I joined the Army I have acted for Mr. Brown, in conjunction with Mr. Pierce and Kept all the accts for the State against the Conti- nent, wch return you may see as soon as you please to call for it—it will be an entire confusion of business in the Issuing departnt of two per- sons Act, one for the Posts & another in the field. I do not chuso to be govern'd by a person or persons, that are necessi- tated every day to apply to me for instructions; moreover I am sensible that not an acct in the field, in the Issuing department will ever be Set- tled by those who have undertaken to do the business.
Page 224
224 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. A Thousand Instances of thoir waste and misconduct, I could men- July 17th tion, which are contrary to the Resolves of Congress & even reason itself." *' * * * * "Should be glad you would be kind enough to put the present affair in a proper System—I am ready and willing, with good, Sufficient Clerks to do any part of duty that I may be appointed to." I am dear Colo. with real esteem your most obt Hble Servant." July 17th COL: WM. DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR, War Office Calling attention to the conduct of "Mr. Armstead, who abandoned the charge of the public Store, more than nine weeks ago. The loss at the Fork is partly to be ascribed to him, and it is difficult to tell of what use a person can be to the public when he will desert his trust at the time his presence is most wanted, and who has paid no attention to his business since, nor has he answered, as Mr. Dyer tells me, a Single application that has been made to him." July 17th Proceedings of a Brigade Court Martial, in the trial of a Prisoner, by Camp Ware name William Fitzpatrick, a Soldier of the 1st Penn: Reg't "for Chesterfield marauding." The Court consisted of— Co. Major Hamilton Prest: Captains, Bartholomew Liouts: Lodge "Davis "Feltman "Seely "Hammond "Bond "Collier "Becker Ensigns Gilehrist "Henderson Reed Lieutenant McMichail, Judge Advocate The testimony proved he had gone to the residence of a citizen and demanded liquor; had been given a small quantity and dismissed—Had taken advantage of the proprietor's absence and robbed him of clothing &c and when detected had resisted the search ordered by his officers— Found guilty and condemned to death. July 18th DAVID Ross TO GOVR. NELSON. Richmond In obedience to the Orders of the Executive, he has examined the papers and accounts produced by Capt: John Dodge relative to his trans- actions in the Illinois Country, as "Indian and Commercial Agent" for the State of Va—By recommendation of Honbl John Page Lieut: Gov
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 225
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 225 of Va. dated Aug: 6th 1779 to 'Col: John Todd, Dodgo had beon 1781. appointed Indian Agent by him—had been also appointed by him at a July 18th subsequent period Agent to supply the Troops in the Illinois Country— To carry out instructions given him by Todd, he had purchased large supplies of merchandize at New Orleans, and from certain traders— With these goods he had purchased lead and provisions from the Indians, for the support of the Army, and had delivered to Officers in charge of garrisons many of those articles at the prices paid for them in Now Orleans—Some had beon employed in paying friendly Tribes of Indians to reinforce stations threatened by hostile savages and others—On the whole, and upon the investigation he is enabled to make, he can find no cause of complaint against Capt: Dodge for mal practice or neglect in the performance of his duties—The apparent irregularities which may appear, are due to orders issued to him by Superior Officers in that Country. Capt: Dodge prays his Salary may be paid in accordance with his services rendered, and that he may be allowed to depart "with the Indians under his care as they are uneasy at their stay here, & living at a considerable expense." Gov: THS. BURKE TO THE COUNTY LIEUT: OF BRUNSWICK Co VA. July 18th "Sir, The movements of tho enemy in your State indicate Something Stale of that fore bodes a rapid march by cavalry to S. Carolina—I have given jj^ t'aro' orders for a number of Rifle men to march towards tho passes on Stan- ton, Dan & Roanoke, in order to dispute them with tho enemy. I request you Sir, to take measures for cooperating with our people on those waters, to keep out people who can give very early notice of the enemy's Movements and to communicate to mo on the Nut-bush in Grenville County, all the intelligence you can collect, in order that I may take the most effectual measures for counteracting the designs of the enemy. I am your veiy Obet. St." J. Scott Ju'r: asks permission of Col: Davies, to visit his home to July 18th know what damage the enemy had done as they passed—has lost his Penns- negroes, and as "they went by his Mill & sight of tho House," he borough cannot rest until he knows their condition. Capt: John Rudulph applies to Gov. Nelson for an order on the Treas- July 19th ury for Forty thousand dollars, being obliged to be detained several weeks on public business—He will account either to Major Genl: Greene or to the State for the amount. 29
Page 226
226 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. GOVR THOS: BURKE TO Gov: NELSON OF VA. July 19th "Dr. Sir, Nutbush, Altho' I have no certain Knowledge that you are appointed ra^viQ8 Governor of your State, yet I venture to write to you on that presump- tion. On my arrival in my own Country, I found myself elected to that most arduous dignity there, and tho' nothing could have to me, more inconvenient or ineligeable, Such appeared the situation of public affairs, that neither my honor nor my Patriotism would permit mo to decline it. To give you an adequate Idea of our derangements, would require much more time, than you or I can, at present spare, and the picture would be very disagreeable, as the drawing would be unprofitable. I will not attempt it at present; tho' if I shall be able to effect such reformation as may afford an agreeable contrast, on some future day, I may perhaps present you with the sketches. The Excursions of the Enemy through your Counties to the South- ward of James River and as far West as Charlotte, have somewhat alarmed us. their burning mills, and other parts of their proceedings Indicate that they are sensible of their Inferiority, and want to procure safety by making the subsistance of our armies difficult and precarious. Should Lord Cornwallis meditate a retreat from Virginia, it is probably with a view of succoring New York, of avoiding the Effects of Marine Superiority, or of prosecuting the war more Southwardly, where the force of the Country is feeble and utterly unprepared—If the first be his design, his cavalry, would in a great measure be useless, and it is probable that he would order them to more rapidly to join his Troops to the Southward and thereby give a decided superiority over Genl: Greene, by which he might be overpowered before he could have any assistance. Should the second be in contemplation, I beleive he would consider the lower parts of this State as affording him the most secure and eligeable positions—The many deep rivers which empty into the Sound afford Posts, very strong by nature, and easily defended against approaches by land. Supplies are abundant, and could be brought to him by water, and nothing of any force could approach him from the Ocean—Should the third be his view, the present is a favorable season—the Wheat Har- vests are saved, the cattle in the woods are good beef, and therefore sub- sistance would not be difficult—the People in the far greater part of the State are unarmed, and destitute of every warlike requisite. he may easily conclude that the heavy force of Virginia, with which he is now pressed, would not pursue him out of the State, and he, in that case, would only have to caleulate on the regular forces, with which Genl: Green might oppose him, and to which his united forces would be far superior. In any of the cases, it seems to me, necessary that this State be put immediately in the best posture possible for efficient operations— And even should none of them happen, being prepared, will enable us
Page 227
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 227 to add our force, if necessary to the common arms, and if unnecessary, 1781. will secure us at home, from Insults and ravages—these considerations July 19th co-operating powerfully with the policy of being always ready in time of war, have determined me to use my utmost Endeavours for putting this State in the best military order which my powers may be equal to. and cheifly for that purpose, I am here now, ready for a conference with the Council of State. but the want of Arms and military stores must inevitably retard us very much, nor do 1 see any early prospect of sup- plies. That I might however, make every attempt possible against the Enemy, I have ordered all our Rifle Men from the several Counties where that species of arms is used, to march towards the passes on Stan- ton, Dan and Roanoke, in order that if his Lordship's cavalry attempt them, we may give them some opposition, and if his whole force attempts them, we may cause some delay, which might enable the Marquis to come up with him. The habit of neglect and disobedience is so preva- lent among our People, that I am a ft raid those orders may not be exe- cuted with that promptness which I wish. however I thought it my duty to make the experiment—if it succeeds the Effect may be very advantageous, if not, no evil is increased By the attempt. I have written to the Commanding Officers of your Counties of Bruns- wick, Mecklenburgh, Halifax, Charlotte, Pittsylvania and Henry, request- ing them to watch the Enemy's motions, and to take measures for co-operating with our People, should they attempt the passage of the Rivers. We shall probably have frequent Occasion for concert and co-operation in our measures, and I hope a free and frequent communication of sen- timents with me, will not be disagreeable to you—for this purpose a Line of correspondence must be formed, and I will take it up at what- ever part of your State you think proper, and continue it through this. I hope it may not be useless to the public, nor possibly is it any disad- vantage to both States that their Governors are men who know and Estimate each other as I am persuaded you and I do. I wish you Sir, all the success that your generous Patriotism merits, and all the happiness of which human nature is capable—which ought to be the reward of your virtues. I have the honor to be, with most sincere Esteem and Regard, Dr Sir, your most obet Servt." WM. MINO TO MR. FRANK WILLIS JUR. July 19th In reply to enquiry as to the number of Caps for Light Horse, he has Frederick on hand, says, those made for the Frederick town Troop are gone: but Town if he will wait about twelve days and will take them without "Bear-
Page 228
228 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. skin covers," he can furnish a supply for Good Tobacco at two dollars July 19th hard money, pr: hundred: the price of the Caps being three dolls : each. Can also furnish Saddles, bridles, holsters &c. July 19th MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES at Richmond. Charlottes- Sickness has prevented his replying to his of the 12th until now. Ho has in vain tried to find "a good penman" to recommend—has found it one of the most difficult things, since he undertook business in Virginia to obtain such a man. Desires to know what is to be done for Horses for the Boats? He has in vain communicated with the Governor on the subject, and thinks impressment the only chance of getting them. The carriages for the Boats cannot soon be made, in as much as the material had to be gotten out of the woods green, and to be seasoned, after the matter had been mentioned to him. July 19th MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO Gov: NELSON, Richmond. Charlottes- His Excellency is doubtless informed of the Boats building, to be mounted on carriages for the use of the Marquis de la Fayette—These are in course of construction; but the horses cannot be procured at once, even with money, and if Impressment is to be used, it is time authority was given—They should be gotten where the Harness and Carriages are making, viz at Stanton, Winchester and Albemarle Barracks—Eighty horses will be necessary for twenty Boats; and in addition to the sum already granted, Twelve Hundred thousand pounds will be needed to purchase them—He is still so reduced by late sickness that he cannot leave his bed. July 19th DAVID Ross TO THE EXECUTIVE. "Sir, .Richmond The several claimants from the Western Country are extremely anxious to be dispatched, and complain much of loss of time as well as the heavy expenses they are subjected to. I have examincd all the papers that I can find belonging to the Board of Trade, which are but few, in order to obtain some information relative to the vast demands against this State from the Illinois Country. Although many of these papers are wanting, from such as are left, and herewith sent, it appears that Mr. Oliver Pollock was considered as Agent for this State at New Orleans, and encouraged to take up the Bills of our Officers in the Illinois Country, in order to support the Troops with cloathing &c &c—It appears by the Minutes of the Board
Page 229
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 229 of Trade, the 29th of October 1779, that they highly approved of Mr. 1781. Pollock's conduct, in the advances that he had made: and by an Order July 19th of Council 6th Novr. following, the mode of payment is pointed out and carried into execution—It does not appear that any limits were set to Mr. Pollock's advances, or the proper persons pointed out to him, who had a right to draw Bills upon the State, and whose draughts only, he was to honor, so that from his former transactions being recognized, he was in some measure left to judge for himself. how far Mr. Pollock may have abused the confidence reposed in him I will not presume to say: but it appears to me that there must have been abuses committed in some of the departments in that country, and calls for immediate redress. It is very extraordinary that the officers of a small Garrison, should at once purchase a Cargo of Goods to the amount of 237,320 pds—which is equal to £53,397 Sterling—Surely Mr. Pollock must have known that this sum was too large to be negotiated by a Captain, and that such advances could not be supported by the State, nor is it possible such supplies could be necessary for that post. Besides Bills of Exchange, which Mr. Pollock was ordered to draw upon Penet & Co. of France for 65,814| pds: I am informed he has received a very large sum of money from the Governor of New Orleans, upon the credit of the State, but this does not appear by any papers before me. I am informed that considerable transactions are still going on in the Illinois Country upon the credit of the State, and bills negotiated to a considerable amount, drawn by the Officers there upon the Treasurer: these bills are become a kind of speculation: I have reason to believe they are obtained in the first instance for a small value, and ultimately fall into the hands of Traders at New Orleans—this may be attended with very serious consequences to this Country, as no doubt the Spanish Government will make a point, that their subjects shall be paid the full amount of the Bills drawn by our Commanding Officers, which will involve Virginia in a short time, in a heavier debt than all the expences of the war besides—I therefore take the liberty of recommending to your Honb'l Board, that Commissioners be sent to the Illinois Country in order to adjust and settle the debts actually due by the State, and to obtain satisfactory returns of the expenditures of the Goods, for which such large sums have been drawn. That the Spanish Government may not complain of deception on the part of the State, it would be necessary to inform the people of Orleans, that a number of bills have been drawn by men not properly author- ized; that the payment of those bills would be suspended until their accounts are investigated: at the same time Mr. Pollock's accounts may be settled, and some mode fallen upon for the support of that country & the negotiation of money matters not liable to such abuses, pro- vided it remain part of Virginia.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 230
230 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. I am greatly at a loss what can be done in Mr. Clark & Mr. Bently's July 19th cases; they aledge that they have advanced their money upon the credit of the State and from motives of Friendship—That they are ruined if not reimbursed." * * * * * • 1 am with great respect Your most obet Servant." July 19th COL: G. CARRINGTON TO COL: DAVIES. Cumberland He sent the "state of the militia" by a gentleman on his way to Char- °' lottesville to be fowarded to Staunton, but in the confusion of the times it was lost. Genl: Lawson had informed him the militia on duty then with him should be releived in two months, consequently he had not awaited the Order of the Executive; but had sent the last company, and should continue to do so until further orders, or by request to the con- trary from Genl: Greene. When the militia were ordered out in Feby, April & May, all the arms fit for service were impressed by Executive Orders, and but few have been returned, consequently the men are very badly supplied at this time. The Court Martial has been in session, and condemned certain delin- quents to six months service—a few more remain to be tried— He has delivered to Mr. Drew Q. Master at Carter's Ferry the clothing collected for the Troops—County Lieut: Skipwith when he went into the service received eleven suits, which will be accounted for to Mr. Drew—The business of collecting clothing has been retarded by the con- stant calls upon the militia—The wagon to be furnished by the County was delivered to Mr. Drew some months past. The draft in the County has been suspended by the order of the Exec- utive, on account of the absence of so many of the militia on duty in the field—A number of eighteen months' men are ready to be delivered. Can they not be rec'd by a recruting officer at one of the Posts? July 19th DAVID Ross TO Gov: NELSON, Richmond Desiring instructions, as he is about to write to Philadelphia—He is advised that one Mr. Nathan a Jew in that city has attached the goods belonging to Virginia, arrived in the Franklin, for a debt ho says the State owes him. He thinks Congress or the Executive of Pennsylvania will free the goods from this detention—Concludes "our Delegates in Congress having been in the utmost distress for money, Mr. Nicholson has negotiated a loan for £400 for their present support."
Page 231
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 231 CAPT: A. BOHANNON TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. July 20th Reporting condition of the military stores in his charge—the muskets Irvin's Store much broken to pieces; two thirds of them needing new stocks, for which he is getting timber. Thinks, if allowed to do so, he will put the arms out into the private shops, a number of which are in that Country, by which means he can get six or seven hundred repaired at once—Has applied to Capt: Pryor for a settlement of the Stat's acct: with the Con- tinent for military stores, but this cannot be done ho says, until he receives a return of the mil: stores now with the Army. He has removed the stores from New London, twenty miles farther up the country, being apprehensive of the coming of the enemy to that post. As soon as he has arranged his affairs at this Post, he will direct his whole attention to the heavy Artillery. CAPT: H. YOUNO TO COL: DAVIES. July 20th Asking for authority to engage Express Riders from the militia, as the Richmond only means of procuring them and what wages they are to be paid? It is impossible to furnish them with forage, they must be paid their expences. Col: James has demanded of him twenty thousand pounds on account of building the boats—Encloses some sample "certificates," "to show in what manner the good people of this Country are treated." Saml: Beall informs Gov: Nelson he had written to him on the 28th June on the subject of procuring a Horse for Genl: Morgan, but has not received an answer—Genl: Morgan being in real want of a Horse "he has purchased one for him of Mr. .Robert Throgmorton, and left the val- uation of him to Col: John Smith of Frederick, and to Maj: Francis Willis of Berkeley—He trusts this procedure on his part will be agree- able to his Excellency and desires to know whether the animal is to be considered "public or private property." Hopes his Excellency will be satisfied he has had nothing more in view "than to reward real merit." July 20th Bath MAJOR N. MITCHELL TO Gov: NELSON. July 20th Praying for relief; having when captured at Petersburg lost two good Richmond horses with bridles & saddles in the service of the State and is not able to replace them—adds "I am on foot and three hundred and fifty miles from home."
Page 232
232 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. J. PRENTIS TO Gov: NELSON. July 20th "Dear Sir, Williamsb'g During Lord Cornwallis' continuance in this place and its neighborhood, I unfortunately became their captive, and when in their possession was compelled either to take a parole, or to suffer a loathsome and probably a rigorous confinement—The lessor evil would have been chosen by every man, and the parole (which they stile an act of clemency) as the least irksome was accepted. Thus circumstanced, your Excellency must suppose my situation exceedingly disagreeable, and consequently sollicitous to use every effort to effect an exchange. Their late scheme of paroling private citizens, not taken in arms, with a view of procuring an exchange for British Prisoners not similarly cir- cumstanced, or with the hope of disarming the individual, will probably be discountenanced; but according to my Idea, I cannot be considered in that predicament. My Duty, as well as inclination pressed mo to have attended the Assembly on their adjournment to Stanton, but Domestic matters totally prevented me; but even in that character. how an exchange on equal principles can be effected, I cannot determine. Your Excellency's opinion respecting my situation, perhaps may be different, and if my enlargement can be brought about, by placing me in any character, it will afford me the very pleasing reflection of once more devoting my person and abilities to the Service of my Conntry." You will accept my Sincere wishes for your happiness and permit mo to assure you that I am Yr: mo: Hble Sevt." July 21st Capt: H. Young requests of Col: Davies authority to enlist Express Richmond Riders and the terms on which they are to be engaged—The late Governor had given him verbal orders "to be governed by Claiborno with respect to this matter"—thinks this order should be confirmed &c—continues "I am tiar'd out of my life for Forage by a parcel of Frenchmen that I dont know, nor will not know—If I refuse to comply with their requisitions, they will obtain an order from the Governor— Will you be pleas'd to order me not to make Issues to any person unless ho is in the service of the State. The Governor will not countermand your Orders." July 21st COL: R. WOODING TO COL: DAVIES. "Sir, Halifax Co. Yours of the 15th Inst: pr: Express came to hand advising that Executive think it necessary one 7th of our Militia, officered and Equipt,
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 233
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 233 should Join Genl: Wayne on his March to the Southward: to Equip 1781. them will be Impossible, because our County arc in a manncr disarmed July 2Ist by tho frequent Impressing of Armos to put in the hands of those who were called out on former Occasions: which commenced with the Minuet service—Of tho truth of which you will judge when I tell you that we had but 14 Guns (such as they were) in the field at our Gonl: Muster in April last. I was really surprised to see so few, and accord- ingly had those who appeared without Guns, cited before a Court Mar- tial the next day, when the whole were acquited, Some proving that their Guns had been Impressed and others too poor to buy them. Since then I was ordered to Reinforce Genl: Greene with 285 men, Officered and Equipt Either by Impressing or otherwise. Accordingly I detached good men with orders to make tho strictest enquiry for, and impress every Gun that was in tho least degree fit for Service—When done I could furnish not more -than one-third of the Number with Even a Tollerable Gun, and the greatest part were public Guns, found in tho hands of Individuals, and the most of those Guns were without flints: in this Situation the men marched through a Dangerous Country infested with Tories &c—however they Joined Genl: Greene at 96, when I am told they were supplyd with arms: and if Genl Wayno can supply Arms' and Ammunition the Men shall be Ready, otherwise you will perhaps think with mo that it will avail but little to send the Men. these are facts sufficient to show Government the impropriety of calling for Men Equipt Ready for the Field: we arc not only without Guns, as I have said, but wo arc also without Ammunition, Tents, Camp Kettles flints &c. I beloive (however) we have many good men who would freely Buy Arms and Ammunition and would use them in the Defence of their Country as freely, but alass those arc articles not to be had in this Quar- ter—I also beleive we have a few good Guns in the County private property, but the owners I am told secrete them and Say they will do it for their own Dofence against Insurrections of Slaves or Tories— Reasons that seem to carry weight (with me at least)—from what has been said you may form an Idea of our present Situation with respect to Arms and Ammunition"—Suggests tho policy of putting Arms into the hands of the Militia, and relying upon them for their preservation which would prevent their being destroyed in Magazines, as has so often happened—This too would keep the men always ready to defend tho country—Dwells upon tho folly of the Government calling for equipped men, upon the idea that tho Militia are always armed and accoutred as the Law directs—The criminal neglect of the Law in some quarter has caused tho present condition of things, by which tho Militia so necessary at this crisis, are powerless—Begs to be pardoned for the freedom with which he speaks, but nothing can more concern him than the present condition of his Country—Gives a rough statement of the strength of the Country; the whole consisting of about 1004 men, of whom "88 30
Page 234
234 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. are under 18 years of age, 200 fit for Station Duty, and perhaps 100 fit July 21st for no duty at all, and about 40 condemned to six months service, mostly runaways to Carolina Washington and Kentucky Counties, those Recep- tacles of Villians, which reduces the real Strength of Militia to about 670, including those under 18: 300 of which is now on Duty under the command of Maj: Genl: Greene and Brig Genl: Lawson, and an hun- dred men under marching orders to releive those under Genl Lawson, which would have been done before now had not their March been Retarded by the late movements of Colo Tarlton"—Recommends strongly the adoption of his plan, of allowing a "tour of duty" to every man who will arrest and deliver at the proper Post, all delinquents who are there to serve for six months—By this means the services of those men are secured for six months, instead of the two months usually expected of the militia man—No mode heretofore adopted has suc- ceeded as well as this—No reward will act as well—It makes every man exert himself—Adds "It will make a man take his Brother or Even his Father, or a father his Son—for says he if I dont take him, somebody else will—this I have known to be the case, where not long since, the taking a Deserter would Scrcene a Man from his Tour of 18 Months in the Continental Service"—The policy of sending "an Officer with a Select number of men" for the Sole business of arresting delinquents will not do—He has tried it; and finds the Officers and men soon become "tired and lazy;" and the delinquent and his friends have only to watch the movements of the officer and his party, give the culprit notice, and ho escapes—All the public stores in the County have long been removed to Peytonsburg in Pittsylvania. July 2ist JOHN WILSON TO COL. DAVIES. Pittsylvania Giving report of the militia in that County—They are now "reduced Co. to about 600 men except the Officers"—"181 ordered to the South, 150 below in our State which makes half now in Sarvicc & Run away which will Distress our County very much." July 22d JAMES SHIELDS TO Gov: NELSON. 'Williamsb'g Mr. Pierce has appointed him to supply the troops returned from Charlestown; but he finds it almost impossible to procure supplies in the neighboring County so lately desolated by the Enemy. What pro- visions he has obtained so far, have been the cattle "that stray'd from the Enemy"—Only two wagons are left in the neighborhood, which he is employing to collect meal from the mills, and has four men on horse- back collecting the cattle where the Enemy have not been—has received nothing from the County Commissioners.

This page contains an image.
Page 235
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 235 CAPT: BROWNE PRICE, C. MIL. STORES, TO MAJOR J. PRYOR. 1781. July 22d Having learned the Enemy had certainly returned down the Country, New London and knowing the great expense of hiring wagons to remove the stores, he has determined to remain where he is until further orders—has col- lected all the material and put the men to work again. The stores not damaged by the weather, and nonc lost except a few swords, and about forty pounds of powder, owing to the barrels giving way when removed. Desires to know whether the Laboratory is to be moved and "where to." Mr. Clarke's time will expire on the 1st August; knows not what will be done for so useful a man in the Armorer's shop—The men will cer- tainly go off if money is not furnished them, as they have none, and "can get no credit in this part of the world": has used every persuasion he can—"Capt: Grice is not able to buy himself a chicken." DAVID Ross TO THE EXECUTIVE. July22d "Sir, ***** "I have also thrown together a few observations upon the present Richmond value of our circulating medium, and confess, the more I considered the subject, the more I was embarrassed to fix on an Exchange that would do equal justice to all, or continue fix'd for any length of time. For some time before the Invasion, and for a short time afterwards Tobacco was considered the standard of our money, and its value deter- mined by the current price of that article, reckoning the average price at twenty shillings specie per hundred. When the demand for Tobacco was checkt & in a great measure stopt, by reason of our ports being blockt up, and the risk of its being destroyed by the enemy at the several warehouses, it ceased to be the true stand- ard of our money, and the price continued the same, whilst the exchange upon specie advanced gradually, as the want of imported articles began to be more sensibly felt. The articles which we, before the Invasion, imported with our Tobacco, could now be only procured with our specie, from the Northern States, and thus the Exchange upon hard money grew to 150 for 1, in the * months of March & April. Paper money being of no intrinsic value in itself, and having no cur- rency farther than the laws of that Country which emits it extends, it can only be estimated according to the articles it represents in that Country, or the commodities it will purchase. For instance, if the common price of Corn be £50, paper money pr: busl:, the usual price of which was 10. S. specie, the Exchange upon that article is 100 for 1.—However as a large crop of one article, and a
Page 236
236 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. short crop of another, or a greater demand for one article than another, July 22d will enhance the value of some & reduce the price of other articles, it will be proper to take the average prices of the principle articles of pro- duce. and from thence produce an Exchange that will be of general utility. I think in the months of March & April, the Excha. in the purchase of the native commodities of the State, taking one article with another and calculated upon former hard money prices—may be said to have been 180 for 1. which is above the exchange then given for specie— hence the observation so often made that hard money had depreciated. Since May last several causes have combin'd to injure the credit & lessen the value of our money. The measures adopted by the Northern States, destroying the credit of the old Continental money, has had a fatal effect upon our money, and must injure the credit of all paper money—The people can have no confidence in a currency liable to such sudden & unexpected changes, as to be reduced in one night to l-6th or l-7th of its value, or perhaps ren- dered of no value at all. The Quantity of paper money is greatly increased in this State by tw.o late emissions—no additional taxes laid upon the people, to call part of it out of circulation, and to make the demand for it universal all over the Country, that Kind of property for which money is a medium greatly lessened, consequently the real value of the money circulating, will be in proportion to the real value of the property it represents, or in other words the articles which are to be bought & sold in that currency. The quantity of transferable property is not only lessened, but our demands for merchandize & a variety of articles from the North'd dayly increasing. Consequently the price of specie raised, and the deprecia- tion of the paper money increased—The same causes will continue to produce the same effects—The expenditures of the Commonwealth great, the Income but small—Whilst the war continues & our Ports blockt up, Emissions of paper must succeed to Emissions, untill the value of it is reduced to a state, which may be better conceived than described— Although the beforemention'd causes are good reasons for a very great depreciation—I cannot help thinking that the Exchange given in many parts of the Country is too high, and not the consequential effects of the beforementioned causes. The fears of some, and the interested views of others have fixt the exchange in several places at 500, & 600 for 1—I conceive this to be beyond the natural depreciation, considered on the principles which I have laid down—that is to say, if the Exchange in March & April last, was 180 for 1, the increase of money and the decrease of property with the other circumstances already mentioned, arc not sufficient to produce such a violent depreciation as above mentioned. There is at this time, such a variation in the prices of commodities in different parts of the country, that the Exchange cannot be calculated
Page 237
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 237 by taking the average prices at present—The Exchange at this time 1781. ought to bear the same proportion to the exchange in March & April, as July 22d the money in circulation now bears to the money in circulation at that time, compared with the transferable property in the State in March & April & the property now in the State. For instance, if the property to be purchased now with paper moncy, is not more than one half in proportion to the money in circulation as there was in March & April last, in proportion to the money then in cir- culation, the exchange of course would be now, or in a short time 360 for 1, & so on in the aforesaid proportion. In settling the Exchange, in order to ascertain the just and equitable prices to be paid for articles purchased, or labour to be performed, the prices of native commodities are to be sure, the principal objects to be attended to,—yet there are some important articles, such as Salt, medi- cines, steel &c, essentially necessary for the use of man, and although too high to caleulate depreciation upon, as they make up but a small part of the necessaries of life, the advanced price of them will, never- theless have some influence in the scale—For the prices paid the Hus- band man, the mechanic, & the day labourer must be such as will enable them to live by their several occupations. It would be happy for the State, if the Exchange.fixt upon by the Executive be such as meets with the approbation of the people at large— if too high an Exchange, it will add to the depreciation, and the prices of all commodities will be regulated thereby—if too low an exchange be fixt upon, the public purchasers cannot give so much as the private purchasers—the articles wanted for the Army will be secreted and withheld—Force must be introduced to seize them, which is a disagree- able alternative, and the injury falls upon the industrious, who deserve encouragement—it is also the most expensive mode of procuring sup- plies, for when the article seized is to be valued, the appraisers will take the violence of the measure into the account. One of the greatest evils attending the depreciation of money is the injury done to the honest creditor, who, upon the day of payment receives but a half or a third of the value of his contract, although ho receives the nominal sum bargained for—this evil demands the attention of Government, so far as they can interfere. Upon the whole, I am well satisfied, that it exceeds the wisdom of man, to settle such an Exchange at present as will do equal justice to all, or continue fixt, for any considerable time, but all matters considered, I am of bpinion, that an Exchange of Three Hundred & fifty for one, would at this time be just & reasonable." This I am sure will appear too high to many, but upon mature delibe- ration, it will be found moderate enough—if you purchase from an individual, 'tis right to buy as cheap as you can, the Seller has one half of the bargain-making—if you seize from a man contrary to his will, the
Page 238
238 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. publick make the whole bargain. In doing this, full regard should be July 22d had to justice, and if we look round, we shall not find the person whose commodity is seized, can lay out his money & be a gainer. if corn & wheat is taken from a man, who wishes to buy a horse for the money, he will find the Exchange full low—it will be the same thing if he wants cattle or sheep—should he want imported goods it will be still much worse—if he employs mechanies to do work for him, it will not be much better. The Exchange appeared high to myself—I have been at much pains to find a plausible reason to reduce it, but in vain—If what I haVe said upon this subject shall be of any use to you in fixing an adequate Exchange, that will give general satisfaction, I shall be well pleased. Upon Saturday evening, I transmitted to Messrs: Clark & Bentley the respective orders in Council, made in their business—I am sorry to find that they are far from being satisfactory." * * * "As we have so many demands pressing hard upon us, I sincerely wish that we could send those claimants, with propriety, to Congress for payment. I have the honor to be with great regard— your most obedient Servant." July 22d T. BENTLEY TO DAVID Ross. Richmond Acknowledges receipt of the Resolution of the Executive Council in regard to his claim. Begs he will represent to them the extreme hardships to which their determination exposes him: to which he is keenly alive when he considers how much he has merited treatment of the opposite character: and especially when the fact is notorious that he had Sacrificed his own fortunes to support the Credit of the State in the Illinois Country—The open letter of Genl: Clarke enclosed with his papers, should have sufficed to prove to the Council the justice and fairness of his claim, and of the services he had rendered: The "illibe- ral suggestion with regard to his signature" he leaves to time to show its absurdity and to place "the blot where it appertains"—He scorns the insinuation of being "an Imposter" and is confident that a man of Genl: Clarke's honorable character will sustain him—Genl Clarke knew the prices of the articles and the value of the currency with which they were purchased, as well as any one, and would never have countersigned his accounts, unless he knew they were correct. If the statements of Genl: Clarke do not give satisfaction, he appeals to the written testi- mony of Colo Montgomery and Capt: Dodge, of his having "Satisfied the clamors of the People who threatened to drive your Troops out of the Country"—These papers will afford confirmation of his privations, and show the melancholy situation of his affairs, "exposed to a merci-
Page 239
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 239 less set of ignorant, bigotted people supported in their Injustice by a 1781. Law establish'd by Colo Todd, to justify their unprecedented proceed- July 22d ings, by declaring their shall be no appeal from their judgement. They had repeatedly entered into combinations to ruin him and latterly, on account of his having supported the Va Troops when they wished to starve them out—Begs to be excused for his urgency and prolixity, but when ruin stares him in the face, owing to his "ill timed credulity and tenacious zeal to serve the State" he cannot fail to give utterance to the poignancy of his feelings. As a last resort, he shall appeal to Genl: Clarke for protection, but insists that the true policy for this and all the other States of the Confederation, should alone be that of "Justice & Libe- rality." JOHN HARMANSON AND WM. SCOTT, COMMRS. OF PROVISION LAW, TO COL: July 22d DAVIES. His Letter ordering the public grain to be sold, was received some Northamp- time ago, and they have disposed of all the corn, except 724 bushels— n the Bacon was consumed in supporting the guards for the county. They have a large quantity of Salt on hand, which it is very desirable should be gotten away lest the enemy destroy it. It may be sent even in ves- sels if insured at considerable risk, to the Rappahannock, or any other post desired—A large quantity of oats are also on hand, tho' they are in part supporting a troop of horse on it—Desire instructibns particu- larly in regard to the salt; which is selling at "£100 pr: bushel for exportation to the Western shore:" freight pr: bushel £25, but they can afford to send it to Fredericksburg for £15, Corn for £1. and Oats for £4. pr: bushl—They urge some decisive step to remove the Corn, Oats, Salt &c from the Peninsula, in as much as the people are constantly apprehensive of losing all by the enemy's coming. Teos: MATHEWS TO Gov: NELSON. July 23d Dear. Genl: Yesterday morning the Enemy landed about three hundred Williamsb'g men at Mill Creek, from on board their Fleet in Hampton road, and are now plundering the inhabitants in that quarter. Vessels daily join tho Fleet in the road, from Portsmouth, and I expect, they wait for nothing but a favourable wind—A Captain from Bermuda with prisoners, informs that the Island of Tobago is taken by the French, he likewise says that a report was circulated in Bermuda, that St. Lucia had also fallen into their hands. A gentleman from Philadelphia brings the same acct. Col: Innes has not yet arrived. I expect he is collecting Provisions and Brandy on the other side the River.
Page 240
240 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. I am obliged to depend on chance for a conveyance of any intelli- July 23d geucc, as no Horsemen or expresses are to be had at this place. I am with the greatest respect Dr. Genl: Your most obet Servt." July 23d MAJOR JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Charlottes- Thanks him for having mentioned his name for the Post which was vi e the subject of his last conversation: received a letter from the Marquis a day or two ago desiring to see him at once, and will leave as soon as his successor Mr. Jones arrives. Hopes it concerns the Office referred to—and trusts it has "no dependance on Quarter Masters" as he has taken formal & final leave of "the whole class, on Publick Mat- ters"—He has furloughed all the workmen for want of provisions, and has sent up the Laboratory, men, Powder, paper & lead agreeable to Capt: Bohannan's request, and shall send the arms to Irvins. Begs for a Warrant for 121.000 dolls: for the C. G. Mil: Stores Depart- ment, as he has borrowed a large amount on public and private credit, and as no more can be had, he is much "distressed for money." July 23d JNO. ROBERTSON TO COL: DAVIES. Camp Sends copies of Returns—Mr. Browne is not at camp—He saw his Excellency the Governor come into camp last evening, but has not had the opportunity of speaking to him. He has given his orders to the Issuing Commissary and has undertaken to command them, but another assumes the control—The troops at Wmsburg he hears have rec'd a sup- ply of Bacon & flour—The Marquis has ordered him to send the first Liquor that comes, to his camp, and shall send a supply the next day; but Mr. Pierce the Asst: Com: Genl is down there providing for them. Plenty of provisions now in camp. He is very desirous of having his office in Richmond, and have a chief assistant in the Field. July 23d DAVID GARLAND TO GOVR NELSON. "Sir, Lunenburg I think it the duty of every good citizen, not only to pay a strict Co. obedience to the Law* of the State. but to give every intelligence that may be subservient too & enable the Executive the better to execute his office. If I am mistaken, impute it to Ignorance & a zeal for my Coun- try, and not a desire of being troublesome—Let me then inform you, Col: Tarleton with his Legion came through this County last week, and

This page contains an image.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 241
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 241 considering his rapid march (thirty or forty miles a day) has done con- 1781. sidorable damage in destroying the public grain &c, as also wounding July 23d three persons & carrying off some others as Prisoncrs—He threatens to return immediately after the 16th of next month, when he assures us that he will carry the sword & fire through the Land, not sparing any persons but such as hath or may take Parrole tfefore that time—As there is not one man in twenty that has a gun &c in this County (they having at three several times Impressed into the Countries' Service and not returned), and no army between this and the Enemies Camp at Ports- mouth, & only three days march (as Tarleton goes) the People are much alarmed, not Knowing what to do, provided Tarleton, or any other of the British forces should come among us. I am apprehensive if that should be the case, the consequences would be disagreeable, as the peo- ple would be obliged to submit. This would not be the case if they had arms & ammunition. If there is any to be spared, you'l be a Judge whether it's proper to arm such militia as above described—Would it not be of good account to Issue your Orders to all Commanding Officers of the militia on the South Side of James River, to Imbody or have in readiness, every militia man that can raise a Gun to prevent the Enemy (in case they should come) going about in small parties to Plunder &c." "I am Sir, with the highest regard: your most obet Servant." P. S. I heard Col: Hobson the Commanding Officer of this County say, that the draft of Militia ordered to Genl: Green could not go, for want of arms." COL: TURNER SOUTHALL TO Gov: NELSON. July 24th He, the day before, had received orders from the Commissioner of Henrico War to continue one fourth of the militia of the County in service by regular rotation, but finds it impossible to carry out these instructions, owing to the various devices, by which men are allowed to avoid doing military duty. Some are engaged with Saml: Williamson collecting horses left by the enemy which he hears is to exempt them from duty for one yearl And others in like manner are engaged under the Quarter Masters, as Express Riders &c—Thus they make a show of being in the public service, until the men march, and "then they rest quietly at home: this kind of manoeuvering has never been countenanced in this County "—Express Riders should be enrolled to serve for twelve months. The invalids of whom there are many should be employed in these duties. He hopes his Excellency will give such directions as may in future put a stop to these cunning practices—concludes "I should have waited on your Excelly: but am prevented by the Small pox being in Town." 31
Page 242
242 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPEfiS. 1781. GENL: DANL: MORGAN TO Gov: NELSON at Richmond. July 24th "Sir, Camp I received your Excellency's favor of the 20th, and return you my Bridges sincere thanks for the very obliging manner, in which you intend to carry into Execution tho Resolution of the Assembly. As I am directed to rejoin the Marquis de la Fayette, I will do myself the honor of calling on your Excellency and conversing with you on the Subject. In the mean time I have the Honour to be with great esteem your Excellency's obt hubl Servt." July 24th GEORGE NORTH, B. QR. MASTER TO GENL: WAYNE. •* Goodo's Giving condition of the Stores at Colo Edward Friends in Chester- Bridge g^—the Darrois containing Shoes had been opened and robbed—Two men who said they were under orders from Col: Febiger to contract with the inhabitants for Shoes, had been there and carried off some of the articles. There is also a quantity of flour, arms &c without a guard el- even a lock or door to protect them. July 24th THOS: NEWTON JR: TO THE GOVERNOR. "Sir, Richmond By desire of Colo Parker, I was commissioned by Genls: Muhlen- berg & Lawson to provide necessaries for tho Troops under his com- mand—with the assistance of Mr. Burke, Provisions, Spirits and forage were with much fatigue procured. Genl: Gregory supply'd us with some ammunition &c &c—he rendered us every assistance in his power during our Stay at. Edmunds' Hill (near the Great Bridge—we were under the necessity of Keeping hunting parties out to procure beef, which ran wild in the woods." * * * "We were reduced to the necessity of employing the parol'd Gentlem to grind at the hand mills, for meal, which very sparingly supply'd us." * * * * * * "The Governor and Council having promised me that any supplies of provisions &c should be allowed in payment of taxes, through them I made the same promise to the inhabitants below. they with the greatest chearfulness spared all they cou'd and now the sheriff refuses to take certificates, & demands a Warrant from the Auditor, which is out of the power of the poor man to get, as it wou'd cost him more than it's worth to travel here for it. * * * '*
Page 243
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 243 "I shall be exceedingly oblig'd if your Excellency & Councill wou'd 1781. direct the sheriffs to receive them. the peculiar situation of the people July 24th below is such that they cannot pay without it, as every thing they had to spare has been either taken by the Enemy or our own troops from them. I need not inform you of their distress, as you are well acquainted with it, but this you may rely on that no part of Virginia is more wil- ling than they are, to assist with what they have left. I cannot omit informing your Excellency that Genl: Gregory received with open arms the distressed inhabitants who were obliged to fly for safety. he did every thing in his power to aleviate their distress." I am, Yr: Excelly most obt Hbl Servt." COL: JAMES INNES TO Gov: NELSON, Richmond. July 24th "Dear Sir, I repair'd immediately after the Rec't of yr: Letter to this Williamsb'g miserable place—where there is not one necessary supply to be procured. The Officers & Soldiers are really in a most distressed situation. No Liquor of any kind can be had—and nothing issued out to them, but very indifferent beef and Indian Bread. Doctor Tucker, the Director General of the Southern Hospital, has just waited on me, to inform me that there are ninety sick men under his charge, for whom he can pro- cure neither Bedding, Blankets, Straw, Medicines, Wine, Spirits nor any other necessary—The Officers who have liberty to go to their respective homes, cannot, for want of the means of transporting their Baggage, which to most of them, is their little all. Neither waggons nor carts can be had here—Every thing of that nature the Enemy have either taken away or destroyed—Add to all this, the Staff Departments here are so unhinged that there are no persons, the Commissioners excepted, who think they are obliged to obey orders. In this Situation am I Surrounded by a number of necessitous claimants who expect much from me. To execute properly the object of my being called to this place, it would require at least Twenty thousand pounds cash—15 wag- gons and as many horses—Had I money, I might be able to purchase poultry, mutton, and possibly some spirits for the sick—without it nothing can be had—I have call'd upon the Commissioners of Gloster for supplies & do expect some beef from thence." * * * * * * . * "Forty sail of Transports are riding in Hampton R6ad: they have on board all the pilots acquainted with the navigation of the upper part of the Chesapeake, in which Quarter, from every appearance, they mean next to operate—four hundred british landed at hampton old fort yes- terday, where they remained until the Evening surveying the Grounds. They have said it is their intention to rebuild fort George. I have the honor to be, most respectfully Dear Sir, yr: obt Servt."
Page 244
244 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JAS: MAXWELL TO Gov: NELSON. July 24th "Sir, Navy Office I beg leave to inform your Excellency, that Lieut: Chandeler and about Thirty Seamen are prisoners with the Enemy at Portsmouth, and were taken in the Patriot, & from the Liberty in Back river—they were the best men we had in our service, and many of them Commodore Barron informs mo were at the capturing of above 500 men—these peo- ple he also ads, arc suffering all the calamities of war, and from their ill- usage many have been obliged to enter into the Enemy's service, and it is to be fear'd the remaining part will be reduced to the same necessity except an Exchange can be procured, or assurance at least given them, that they are not forgotten by their Country—Also on the 27th of April, at the capturing of the Tempest, Capt: Markham, Lieut: Steel & a midshm were made prisoners & paroled, which also pray to be exchanged as soon as possible. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellency's most obt & most Humble Servt." July 24th Henry Tazewell certifies, that, Mr. Nivison, having been by the Gov- ernor, referred to Mr. Barker & himself " to be examined as to his fitness to practice the law" that he has asked him the necessary questions, and finds him very well acquainted with the Theory. "Young Gentlemen educated in public Academies in the Law, have not an opportunity of becoming intimately acquainted" with the prac- tical parts of their profession. July 24th CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: DAVIES. Richmond Calling attention to Major Claiborne's determination to pay the Express Riders at the rate of nine shillings specie or its equivalent, pr: day requiring them to find themselves everything and to bear their own expences—Requests an order for the stores. at Friend's in Chesterfield. Ho will not be able to procure wagons to transport the officers' Baggage at Wmsburg, unless he has power to impress them, and is furnished with men to guard them afterwards. As the Enemy are on board their ships, he suggests that it will be inexpedient to engage too many "Expresses" until their destination be known.
Page 245
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 246 BRIG: GENL: EDWARD STEVENS TO Gov: NELSON. 1781. July 24th Major Hardeman of the militia, "an exceeding active, good officer" Camp Mal- and who is "arranged in ye State Regiment under Col: Dabney," but vern HilU with inferior rank, can do more service in his present position—He therefore hopes he may not be deprived of his services—continues—The Militia is exceedingly Badly off for musick. there is not a Drum among them. And it is almost impossible to do duty without, not only that, but at times gives fresh spirits to Troops, and spurs up an emulation among them, which is always productive of much good in an Army— If we could be furnished with only half a dozen for ye present it would be of infinite service,—If a Travelling Forge could be procured for ye use of ye militia, it would be exceeding serviceable, by having ye Arms of ye militia Keeped in repair as ye most triffling defect in a Locke renders it unfitt for service" &c. With sentiments of Respect I am, Sir, Your most obt and very humble Servt. N. HOBSON Co. LIEUT: & OTHERS TO COL: WM. DA VIES—in reply to July 24th his Circular Letter of the 15th. They find it impossible to arm one seventh of the Militia; such have Lunenburg been the draughts of arms, that there are not remaining "ten fire-locks fit for use in the County; nor are there as many pounds of ammunition of any Kind—They have repeatedly had the mortification to make this apology for not complying with the demands of the Executive—The force of the County, by last returns, "amounts to 382 militia, of whom 86 are now in service, and a relief of 34, just marched"—They have on hand a considerable quantity of grain collected, and thirty beeves, which will soon be consumed by the Troops on their march Southward, going that way. Col: Brown had sent ninety of their beeves to the Army— Their largest "magazine of grain was destroyed by Col: Tarleton"— The difficulty of making a correct return of the provisions collected, arises from the fact that one of the Co. Commissaries is a prisoner with the enemy having refused to take a parole, and the other declines to give information, because he is paroled by them—Col: Brown should be informed of this state of things. J. JONES, J. MADISON, THEO. BLAND AND ED: RANDOLPH, DELEGATES, July 24th TO GOVR NENSON. "Sir, Although your appointment to the office of Chief Magistrate of the Philadelphia State has not been officially announced, private communications will not
Page 246
246 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. July 24th allow us to doubt the fact, or \any longer delay presenting your Excel- lency our congratulations on the occasion, and to assure you, we shall be happy in contributing what lies in our power towards rendering your administration agreeable to yourself and beneficial to the public—With this view and that you may be fully and regularly informed of public transactions and occurrences, we have determined to make a weekly communication, as well of the proceedings of Congress nccessary for your information, as of such foreign and domestic intelligence as may deserve attention, and we shall be at liberty to divulge—In return we request a similar correspondence on the part of the Executive, not merely for our private gratification, but principally to enable us more effectually to execute the duties of our Appointment. The offer of the Empress of Russia, to settle the disputes between the States of Holland and Great Britain has been rejected on the part of the Court of London, and referred over to a general pacification. No doubt you have heard of the extraordinary capitulation agreed to by the Spanish Commander, on the reduction of Pensacola, whereby the Prisoners captured there, were allowed to be sent to any British Post, Jamaica and St. Augustine excepted, and that General Campbell has made choice of New York—, at which place a part of them, we are informed, have already arrived, and will no doubt be employed in defence of that Port. Mr. Boudinot, a member from the State of N. Jersey, read us a Letter yesterday, received from a friend in Elizabeth Town dated the 20th instant, informing him that Adml Digby had arrived at the Hook, with five ships of the line, and it was said had captured a Fifty-Gun Ship and Frigate of the French. In this Squadron, it is said the 3d son of George the 3d is arrived in the character of Midshipman, and that a House was taken for him in New York and preparing for his reception—We give you this as private intelligence to Mr. Boudinot, not yet authenticated. Some intercepted Letters transmitted us by our Minister at the Court of Versailles are ordered to be published—Some of them are interesting, and others show the continued delusion and folley of the British Minis- try—the enclosed papers contains part of them, and may serve to amuse you. We request to be informed of the important transactions of the last Session of Assembly as soon as possible, and in particular what sum of the new emission of the 10th of March 1780 has been issued, and on what terms in proportion of value to the old Bills—We are respectfully Sir, yr: obed: Servants." (Copy.)
Page 247
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 247 JOHN WATSON TO THE GOVERNOR, IN BEHALF OF MR. WILLM. LIGON. 1781. July 26th Appointed a "Deputy Commissioner of Provisions" for Amelia Co, a Prince man of character, and who has exerted himself in procuring Bacon and Edward other provisions, for which is has became responsible, but who having been drafted to serve in the Militia, by reason of his appointment, had failed to attend, and was therefore condemned to six months service as' a delinquent—Begs the necessary relief be furnished so true and valu- able a man. DOUGLAS WILKINS TO THE GOVERNOR. July 26th By the Act of Assembly by which Brunswick was divided into two Greeneville Counties, one of which is Greeneville, there are no Commissioned Offi- cors left, except Col: Fisher, who being captured and paroled cannot act—He therefore asks for two Colonels' Commissions, one Major's, six Captains, twelve Lieutenants and six Ensigns—There are many men who refuse to do military duty, and they cannot be tried, because of the want of Com'd Officers to form a Court Martial—They declare they will not serve unless forced to do so, and others are discontented because they are not arrested. He desires to know to whom these men shall be sent, when apprehended—The people are very much incensed, because their horses are taken, without being paid for, and many swear they will "lose their lives before they over will suffer their horses to be taken"—They complain, that it falls too hard upon individuals. They are willing to give up their horses, if the Captain of a Company be em- powered to raise the number required out of his own men. If a man gives up his horse, the others should be taxed to pay for him; and when the Government pays for the horse so taken, the money should be refunded to those who had been taxed for his purchase—This method will so satisfy the people, that many horses may be gotten—He has two hundred & eighty men enrolled, but of those only about two hundred and thirty fit for duty. Under the Law, he is required to make a return of the number of Regular Soldiers in the Country, wounded and unfit for duty; but he cannot find one such—Desires to know how the people are to get their pay for the "many guns taken out of the County for the publick" as they are ever after him for the money. COL: BEVERLY WINSLOW TO COL: DAVIES. July 26th The reason why part of the Militia are not in the field, is that he Spotsylvania thought it best to execute the "Draught for the Continental Service," ^°' as it is the only time the Militia have been altogether in the county
Page 248
248 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. since early in March. That duty being over, he will send off one fourth July 26th of them on Monday next to. join the Army. Having heard that Troops were to be stationed at Fredericksburg and in the peninsula between the Potomac and Rappahannock, to oppose any attempt of the enemy in that quarter, requests that these be assigned to this service—Owing to the late confusion &c, very little clothing has been collected—What has been rec'd was given to the Army on its late retreat thro the country. The Governor endorses the above. "The Militia from Spotsylvania must join the Marquis*—The County Lieutenants ought to be directed not to deliver cloathing but by particular order of the Commissioner of the War Office, by whose orders alone, Military Stores of any kind are to be delivered. THOS. NELSON Jua." July 26th BEV: WINSLOW TO Gov: NELSON, in behalf of two men. who had been sentenced by Court Martial to serve six months as having been delin: quents. SpoUylvania He had sent one of them to haul flour from Jordone's Mill to Raccoon Co. Ford, when the Army at that place was out of meal; and the other had been sent by Genl: Wcedon with the guard over prisoners conducted to Staunton—On this account they should not be punished, and as "the power of remitting fines and penaltys is lodg'd with him alone," he hopes he may be excused for making this appeal. July 26th JOHN BROWN, C. GENL: PROVISIONS, TO Gov: NELSON—Richmond. "Sir, Camp Mai- The Honourable Major General, the Marquis De la Fayette informs vern Hills me ne shaii shortly move from this place down the Country, wch will increase the difficulty of conveying Provisions to the Army, and will in consequence require a greater number of waggons, than have hitherto been had for that purpose, which the Marquis desired me to inform you of—I am certain forty waggons will be as small a number as will answer for that purpose; our dependence for meal being entirely over, as the Mills are almost dry, and our Flour Lies in the Counties of Amelia, Dinwiddio, Chesterfield, Powhattan, Prince Edward, Cumberland and Goochland, and will require at least fifty Barrells pr: Day: from which your Excellency may readily see what number of Waggons will be wanting for that purpose—It will take at least ten waggons for the pur- pose'of transporting the article of spirits alone. *Tben at "Maivern Hills" below Bichmond.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 249
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 249 The business of waggoning, I consider as part of the Quarter Master 1781. General for the Continents' duty, and of consequence foreign to mine: July 26th I have made application to Major Clai borne, relative thereto, who prom- ised he would look into it—The State will loose considerably, as I can- not charge the Continent with Waggonage—The enemy destroyed a quantity of flour and wheat at Daniel Jones' Mill, which is all the Com- missioner informs me, he knows of. The Bacon and Spirits on the South' Side of the River have all escaped. My not having had the small pox, prevents my waiting personally on you, but as soon as I can with safety, I will. 1 am Sir, Your Excellencies' Most obedient, very humble Servant." DAVID Ross TO COL: WM. DAVIES. July 26th Soon after the Law passed for raising two Legions for Genl: Spots- Richmond wood, ho received by Mr. Jefferson, a letter from the Genl: relative to the Clothing the Legions. He assured the Genl: he would do all in his power for him—The clothing purchased at South Quay, and the supply that came from Philadelphia with the arms, would more than have, suf- ficed, but the former was destroyed, and the latter lodged at Hendersons, has been so often removed, that ho fears most of it is lost. He has lately had several very pressing letters from the Genl: and is at a loss how to answer them. Has directed Mr. Nicolson to call on him on his way to Philadelphia, and had written to him, that all applications for clothing must come through the Board of War,—and be approved by the Executive—The Genl: had also written him urgently, in regard to cloth, Blankets & tents &c—wants his accoutrements from the northd, where he is going himself, and wants the clothing made up under his own eye. He wishes sincerely all such applications were made through the proper channel. As it is necessary to reply to his letters, desires instructions how his demands are to be met. * * * * Capt: Peyton is much in want of funds to pay his tailors and other artificers; and to pay the women in the neighborhood for making shirts. Major Pryor informs him by letter, he had sent 300 stand of arms to Carolina by orders of the Marquis, but does not say whether they "the State or Continental property." 32
Page 250
250 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. WILLIAM BLACK TO THE GOVERNOR. July 26tb Richmond Requesting a "Flag of truce" to go to Portsmouth, in order to settle an account for wheat furnished, with "a certain Hecter McAllaster" who had been a merchant there, but had gone off with Ld: Dunmore, and is now Commissary of Prisoners in the British Army—McAlIaster had agreed to Settle with him in hard money &c. July 26th FRANCS WILLIS JU'R: MAJOR, VA L. DRAGOONS TO BRIH GENL: MORGAN. He thinks his men will soon be ready, if an order can be gotten for the accoutrements when they are received at Winchester. As Mr. Nicolson could not furnish the caps, he has written to Fredericktown, Maryland for them.—and has become personally responsible for the amount of tobacco required to purchase them—'Hopes the Executive will indemnify him—But he sends an Express now for a special purpose, to inform him of a late peice of "attrocious conduct" &c. "The history of the matter is this, a Stallion was impressed, amongst others, the pro- perty of a Mrs Hannah—he had been for some days in the possession of Lieut: Throckmorton. after midnight a party came down, some armed and some not, and took the Horse out of Mr Throckmorton's stable. no person on the plantation being awake; if such behaviour goes unpunished, no further orders for supplies need be sent to this county. 1 should not have hesitated a moment to have demanded to administer the punishment so justly merited, but the County Lieutenant, after giveing Capt: Armstrong orders to impress, imbibed the doubts of some leading men in the upper part of the county and some few in the lower, whether the powers conveyed in the Governor's letter wou'd justify him in the measure—This being industriously spread among the people, and Major Hunter's attempting to raise a Volunteer Troop of Horse, has I beleive been the occasion of this and many other disorders of this nature. Capt: Armstrong has been pursued with arms and clubs—ho has made way as yet, sometimes by disarming and drubing his opposers. at other times when the balance of power has been unfavourable, by an honorable retreat. I will not venture to say, tho' its generally beleived, that Major Hunter encourages this disorder, by declaring the Gover- nor never intended, by his instructions to the County Lieut: to have Horses impressed—Colo Pendleton frequently suggests the same. and the Co Lieutenant seems to be alarmed, in supposition that ho has gone too far." We have ncarly all our horses and only wait for the accoutre- ments—A line from tho Governor to proceed and strengthen our hands with undoubted authority will soon bring us to you in a condition, I hope to be serviceable." I have the honor to be, with the highest respect &c."

Page 251
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 251 DAVID Ross TO THE GOVERNOR. 1781. July 26th About two weeks ago, he had sent Mr Maury to the Northern Tobacco Richmond Inspectors, with orders to ship 400 Hhds: to Charlestown, from those most exposed to the enemy's depredations. And to have all the other Tobaccoes removed to a safer place, Suggests the propriety of ordering all the County Lieutenants "where there are publick Tobaccos," to give his agents assistance in removing it. Sends him "twelve sheets of paper money amtg: to £20160," a little more than is mentioned in his letter. WILLIAM DAVIES TO TFIE GOVERNOR. July 26th "Sir, I beg leave to lay before your Excellency the inclosed Letter from War Office Mr. Ross, as far as relates to General Spotswood's cloathing, the Saddles &c—The wants of the Continental Cavalry, the nakedness of the infan- try, and destitute situation of the State corps under Dabney and Nelson, added to the scarcity, which losses we have Sustained, will occasion, all dispose mo to give the preference to the men who now are and will con- tinue to be in the field—B>it at all events the irregularity of the mode, by which General Spotswood proposes to provide for his men, is such that for my part I never can consent to it. If every Officer is allowed to take cloth here, blankets there, and Saddles from another place, with- out regard to the wants and necessities of other corps, there is an end to every expectation I had formed of supplying them regularly and equally. In the corps of Cavalry, by this management, one officer has got all the boots for his men, another has the breeches, and a third the saddles. The same confusion will continue forever to prevail, if Genl: Spotts- wood's mode of supply is to be adopted or authorized—I must therefore solicit the authority of government to justify me in directing Mr. Ross to make no appropriation of the clothing or materials for cloathing, intended for the supply of the Troops without an express order from this office, or from the Executive through it—Indeed, it does not appear to be Mr. Ross' business at all, to have anything to do with Genl: Spotts- wood in this affair—Materials and supplies of cloathing go regularly into Mr. Armstead's hands, Military stores into Capt: Bohannon's, and so of the other departments; the Commercial Agent may purchase the whole and put them into the possession of proper persons, but the gov- ernment directs the application. If Gencral Spottswood chuses a par- ticular fashion for his uniform, it may be adopted either by the artificers at Charlottesville, or of others at prices and under the regulations which Mr. Armstead may think necessary.
Page 252
252 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Upon the whole, I submit it to government whether it will not be July 26th proper that I should officially request from Genl: Spottswood, an exact state of his legion, that such directions may be given as will do him jus- tice and injure nobody else—and eventually promote the public benefit, which otherwise will infallibly suffer." I have the honor to be Your Excellency's most Obedt Servt." "Circular." July 26th THOS. M. KEAN PRES: OF CONGRESS TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. Philadelphia Enclosing Act of Congress of the 23d Inst: and another of the 24th, for the purpose of procuring a loan of thirty thousand dollars, for "dis- tressed citizens of S. Carolina & Georgia who have been driven from their Country and possessions by the enemy" and lately arrived in Phil- adelphia. The money to be returned by the Legislatures of these States, so soon as they are in a condition for so doing—Charitable donations also to be received. July 26th LT: COL: R. LINDSAY TO Gova NELSON. Head He has informed the Marquis that the term of service of the Albe- Quarters mario Militia has this day expired. They were ordered to the Field by the late Governor to serve two months—Any laws or regulations which may have come in force since that time should not prevent their being discharged at once—He is convinced Albemarle will not send out a releif until he shall return—Since the 17th May last that county has had out "204 men, and a reinforcement of 223;" since which a reinforcement of 80 men has been ordered—The whole effective force according to the last return is 738, thus 507 men have been ordered out, when there were actually 204 in the field—Under the circumstances he does not think a "releif" should at this time be required of them. July 26th BRIG: GENL: Ro: LAWSON TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Prince Ed- The orders which have reach'd this County for one fourth of the ward Co. Miiitia to march to General Greene's army, came to hand the 24th Inst only. I find from those Orders that Government expects that the County Lieutenants will be able to arm & equip the men order'd out on this occasion. As I am strongly impressed with the sound policy of supporting the General's operations in that quarter, and which cannot well be done
Page 253
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 253 without a speedy reinforcement from this State, and as I find that this 1781. reinforcement must go from the Southern Counties, I beg leave to .state July 26th to your Excellency some difficulties at present inseparable from this business, and which will certainly retard, if not destroy the under- taking—provided early measures are not taken to remove them as effec- tually as possible. It is not practicable for the Commanding Officers of the Militia to arm & equip the number of men called for, under the greatest exertions they may make—The arms are not attainable through this channcl— The Individuals formerly possessing arms have been so repeatedly called upon to deliver them up on sudden & great emergencies of the State; & complying with'those demands are truly (a few instances excepted) without private arms, for when they were taken out of the possession of the owners, and put into the hands of different men, it has happened too frequently that they have ncver been returned, and thus the Indi- vidual, as well as the publick sustains a manifest injury. I venture not this opinion on vague report—the reality of the thing itself is strongly impress'd on my recollection. When Government call'd for the Militia from these Counties, to join the Marquis, at the time Cornwallis form'd the junction with Phillips, it became my duty to hasten their march, and to get into the field the quota call'd for from each county—but not more than Jd march'd; and this was owing to the actual want of arms to put into their hands. I 'hope it is in the power of Government to remove this difficulty by furnishing arms &c—but even then I fear the number expect'd will not March in a short time. • At the particular request of the Marquis, I have taken some pains to sound the disposition of the People in this quarter on the occasion & have endeavor'd to accelerate their march but I find from very good information that the idea of such a lengthy march distresses them greatly. They also complain of inequality in performing this service— indeed I must own to your Excellency that I conceive too much justice in this objection. They are call'd upon, it's true to serve only two months from the time of their joining the Southern Army—but the fact is so striking that it will take them more than four months to get there & back to their Homes, that the conclusion drawn is this—that they have credit only for performing a tour of duty with the bulk of the militia, altho' it takes them five months ncarly to perform it in, when those who stay within the State perform their tour within the compass of three months at most—many in much less time—The circumstance of their pay has not the supposed weight in removing this objection— indeed few go out with the militia, that make the pay any way an object. I am confident that if something could be donc to make them conceive this service more equal, it would have a happy effect—I presume not to suggest to Your Excellency the mode of effecting this.
Page 254
254 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. July 26th July 26th It is a fact which I think it wrong to conceal from your Excellency, that several of the militia who are call’d upon, have openly avow’d it as their determination to serve as six months' men within the State, rather than perform this service. The horrors of the Southern climate are so strongly magnify'd & the fatigues of marching so seriously impress'd on their minds, that few considerations could induce them to engage in the undertaking with alacrity. I have too much cause to fear that these are unquestionable facts, which it is probable would have reach'd the Executive, when the evil had existed too long to be remedied in such time as to preserve the idea of supporting General Green.” >k >k +: “It is also necessary to observe to your Excellency, that several of these Counties have sent down the greater part of their men design'd to releif those who have been already in the field. & the commanding officers would gladly know how to act in such case. Punishments would be more frequently impos'd on the delinquent militia by the sentences of the County Courts Martial were the late act of Assembly publish'd & sent to the respective counties. I trust Sir, you'll be so good as to excuse me for troubling you with these remarks—as I am fully confident that you are not a stranger to the motive that actuates me on the subject. I wish also to remark, that the Southern Counties have sent their militia to South Carolina on four different occasions, & have nevertheless done equal duty in the State with these Northern Counties, who have not been thus call’d upon. I have the honor to be, with the highest Sentiments of respect—Sir, Yr: Excellency's mo: obet: & very humble Servant. CAPT: HAMILTON To “I am sorry to hear that the want of the carriages for the Boats is likely to prove fatal to the operations of the Army & wish sincerely that it was in my power to furnish them, but from what I have told you repeatedly in my letters on this subject, you could not expect them to be ready for service ’til the fall.” >k >k x “I have not only confided in what the Superintendant of Artifices has told me, but have made enquiry of people who have a knowledge of the business & they all agree that it would be entirely useless to attempt the making of any until the wood be sufficiently seasoned.”
This page contains an image.
Page 255
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 255 Thos: Clayton informs the Governor, of his appointment under Mr. 1781. Nicholas Payne, to collect and foward beeves; but his assistant having July 26th been drafted in the militia, he can do little without other help &c. Spotsylvania COL: WM. PRESTON TO COL: WM. DAVIES. July 26th His Letter by Express, of the 15th inst:, requiring a seventh part of Montgomery the militia of that County under proper Officers to march to the assist-' ance of Genl: Greene, was rec'd the day before—Orders were immedi- ately given for the Officers and men to rendezvous at or near the Lead Mines on the tenth of ncxt month fully prepar'd for that duty. But he is sorry to inform him that from the present situation of the county the number of men required will not probably be raised—continues ''There are four or five Companies along our Frontier that lays so much exposed to the Incursions of the Savages, that I cannot attempt to draw a man from thence, as the Indians seldom fail to come in about the season these men will be absent: Add to this that more than one half of our Militia arc disaffected, and can by no means be drawn out to serve against the Common Enemy, and those who wishes well to the American Cause have been harrassed with Duty, while numbers of the others have been skulking in the mountains; and indeed were those drawn off, there is but too much reason to apprehend an Insurrection. It is what I have long dreaded. However nothing in my person shall be wanting to send out the number demanded." * * * I am with very great Esteem, Sir, your most Obed: & very hble Servt." GOVR NELSON TO THE VA DELEGATES IN CONGRES. July 26th "Gentlemen, I wrote to you on the 21st Instant. since when, the Enemy Richmond have embark'd part of their Troops, and have fallen down to Hampton Road. Whether they mean to operate up Chesapeake and its Rivers is uncertain, but I am rather inclin'd to think they will proceed to New York, the winds having been fair for them to have gone up the Bay, which they have hitherto declin'd—A party landed at Old Point Com- fort, where they remain'd only a few hours—It is to be fear'd they may attempt 'to repair that Fort, which, should they effect it (and without naval assistance we cannot prevent it) will be to this State a ruinous measure, as by having a post there, with a ship or two, they will effec- tually keep possession of this River and Fork, and prevent any ships rendering assistance to our Troops, should an attack on Portsmouth be thought practicable. You are the best Judges whether naval assistance can be obtained. It is impossible to prevent their effecting this work
Page 256
256 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. because our Troops will be oblig'd to pass along a narrow sand beach, July 26th that may be guarded on one side by their Ships and on the other by their Gun boats and Gallies. The more I reflect on the Resolve of Congress, respecting the Bermu- dians, the greater my concern is, well knowing that from them we had the only prospect of supplying this State with the necessary article of Salt. The distresses that some Individuals have lately experienced by s the ravages of the Euemy, when joincd to the impossibility of procu- ring so essential an article, will I fear, create great uneasiness in some parts of this State. Our Situation is very different from Eastern and Northern States. Their-trade free, busy and extensive, they can pro- euro that article with certainty—Our Ports are totally blockt up: Were they even at this time open, we should have but few advantages from Trade, all the vessels in the State having been destroy'd by the Enemy, So that unless Salt can be brought to us, which we expected the Bermu- dians would do for Corn, we shall be in horrid distress. But it is needless to enlarge further on this Subject to you who from your knowledge of our situation, must be fully sensible of all the bad consequences of this determination of Congress." July 26th GOVR NELSON TO COL: JOSIAH PARKER.* "Dear Sir, Richmond . When your Letter came to Richmond I was absent and it being mixt with many others that I had not time to look over, I did not, when Mr. Pierce went from hence know that there was one from you. The late very critical Season of the year has prevented the Marquis reinforcing you, as could have beon wish'd—I felt much for you, and the Country under your immediate command, but circumstances rendered support impracticable. Were the means of defending the Country equal to my inclinations to protect it, not a spot should be subject to British depredations, but we must make use of the abilities we have, and lament that they are not more adequate to the purpose. I am sincerely concerned at the unhappy misfortunes that has befallen Capt: Nott. He was a firm Whig, and an active, spirited officer, whose death will be severely felt by the friends of America, in that part of the Country. The Villian who murdered him, I hope, will meet with a pun- ishment equal to the horrid crime he committed. By a Law pass'd tho last Session of Assembly, the Commanding Officer was impo.wered to declare Martial Law, agreeable to the Continental Articles of War, within 20 miles of our camp, and within the same distance of the Ene- my's—The Marquis was furnish'd with this Law, and proclaim'd it in general Orders, which I shall transmit to you. * This letter is in the rough draft, not signed by the Governor, but evidently in reply to Col: Parker's of the 29th June 1781.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 257
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 257 I am well pleas'd with your answer to tho fecblo menaces of the Enemy 1781. respecting Butler. Pray send me the names of tho disaffected in tho July 26th Counties below, that proper measures may be adopted to prevent their doing further injuries to tho State. The Commissary General will be directed to pay proper attention to your Troops to keep them well sup- plied with provisions—I should approve of Mr. Pierce much, to act in the department of Commissary, and will recommend him, but we must have one principal to look to, and ho has hitherto, mado tho appoint- ments. As soon as we can procure a supply of money from Charlottes- ville, from whence we have not yet romov'd the Treasury, your Quarter Master shall be supplied with a sum for current exigencies. Your letter of tho 24th was delivered to mo to day, by Capt: Brown. I am greatly concern'd at your losses this invasion, and am sorry to hear that you propose to leave us. Much as I wish you to continue in tho field, I cannot insist on a measure that may interfere so greatly with your private Interest. At tho same time I assure you that your County will sensibly feel tho want of your services in tho fiold." COL: WM. DAVIES TO . July 26th "Sir, Tho critical situation of tho Counties of tho Northern Neck, espe- War Office cially at this period when there is some reason to apprehend a move- ment of the Enemy up Potomac, has induced Government to direct tho whole of their militia, below the ridge, to hold themselves in constant readiness for an immediate call; nor is there to be any draft from them for the Marquis' Army, except only from the Counties of Culpeper, Fau- quier, and Loudon, who are required by regular rotation to Keep a fourth of their militia under him, till further Orders. In a letter from Colo Lee of Westmoreland, enclosing a representation of the Field Offi- cers, ho suggests a request that you might be entrusted with the com- mand in that part of the Country, so long as there is cause of appre- hension of a visit from the enemy. Having no authority to direct tho duties of Brigadier General Weedon, who acts under the orders of the Marquis, and being desirous to concur with the wishes of the people, the government agree to tho request, and I have it in Command from his Excellency tho Governor in Council, to signify to you his desire that you accordingly take tho charge of tho defence and military conduct of • the militia of the Northern Neck, as far as government has directed them be called forth, subject however to the orders of such Senior offi- cers, as may be hereafter appointed to tho Command, Should it so hap- pen. For the better, and more effectual defence of that part of the Coun- try tho government are willing that one thousand stand of the arms lately arrived from Philadelphia should be appropriated, and so much ammunition as may be necessary. 33
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 258
258 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. I-observe in a return of the State Arms coming on from Philadelphia, July 26th that 275 muskets and 104 bayonets are lodged at Fredoricksburg, and 841 Muskets and 465 Bayonets at Fauquier Court House. This would make more than the number allowed by 116—At Noland's there are 920 muskets and 486 bayonets. Those added to the 275 at Fredericksburg are too many by 195—As those at Fauquier are so much farther ad- vanced into the country than those at Noland's, I would prefer the allot- ment of the latter, for the use of the Northern Nock, as it will be a great means of getting them brought fowards. Those at Fauquior as well as the 195 surplus must then move below the ridge towards James River" &c—I have wrote to Capt Bohannon, State Commissary of Mili- tary Stores, particularly on the subject." July 26th BEN: C. WALLEB TO COL: JAMES INNES. Williamsb'g In accordance with the orders of the Governor, "the Militia of this City have respectively been warned in," but only four or five have appeared. The "present situation of tho Place with respect to the Small Pox" has caused this small number to meet, and many of the Inhabitants who have been inoculated will not be fit for service for some time. All the militia of tho city have been paroled by the enemy except about ten or twelve—the privates consider themselves in the same cate- gory with the officers who are paroled, and as those will not act, they observe tho same course. The Proclamation in regard to paroles cannot be canned into effect, but it should be attempted at once—As Col: Dixon refuses to act, Major Southall being absent and Capt: Harwood also refusing to act, ho is taking steps to carry out tho Governor's orders, but when Major Soutball returns, ho of course will take rank. July 27th GOVERNOR THOS. NELSON JUR: TO GENL WASHINGTON." "Dear Sir, Richmond As a bad apology would be worse than none, I will not attempt to make any for my long silence, but rely on your goodness to pardon it. It is probable that you may have heard of the high honor my Country have confor'd on mo, by electing me to govern them, at this critical period. To have declined the appointment might have indicated "There is no address to this letter and it is without signature: but the reference made in it to the sending of the Marquis, establishes the fact that it is addressed to the Commander in Chief by whose order Lafayette was sent to Virginia early in 1781; and the autograph must be Nelson's, in as much as he speaks of himself as having juit been made Governor of Virginia.
Page 259
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 269 timidity. I therefore accepted it, with a determination to exert every 1781. power that I possess'd, to give energy to Government, and security to July 27th the Inhabitants of the State. The very extraordinary manuvre of Lord Cornwallis into this coun- try, and his runing up & down thro' different parts of it, will I suppose make a great noise in Europe. But when the Geography of the Coun- try, and its circumstances are known, I flatter myself the British Com- manders will not have acquir'd so much military fame, nor we shall suf- fer so much disgrace as may at first be attributed to both. At the begin- ning of every Invasion our force is inconsiderable, but rather than make no appearance of opposition, we take the field with the few we can col- lect. The enemy, superior to us in appointment and numbers, with the assistance of their ships, make good their landing where they please. Seldom at the place where they expect opposition, generally above us, which obliges us to move after them, either to avoid our retreat being cut off, or to hang on their rear, or flanks—if they expect the latter they may land on the opposite side of the river, from which the force, tho' small, is collected—They never have indicated an inclination to fight, not even Lord Cornwallis—Tarlton, by sudden incursions into those parts of the country that ho knew were not in arms, has collected a number of Horses, that have enabled him to run about, paroling citizens, whom he has taken in their Beds—Lord Cornwallis has march'd thro' the Carolinas, and part of Virginia, which may give him great eclat, but as soon as we collected such a force as would enable us to oppose him, he faced about, and retreated with the greatest precipitation—That they have done great injury both public and private, is certain, but I have this consolation, that he is further from the Conquest of Virginia than when he enter'd it. I do not beleive ten men have join'd him, which must mortify him not a little—They have made Whigs, of Tories. You could not have made the Militia of Virginia happier than by sending the Marquis to take the command here; they have great confi- dence in his bravery and conduct. The private citizens are no less pleas'd with his affability and great regard for their civil rights, and attention to the preservation of their property. His character is held in the highest estimation by the Inhabitants of this State"— * must be a mortification to him. Tho spirit of the people is higher than it has been some months- past. I will not engage more of your time, than to assure you, that the greatest happiness of my life will be to con- tribute towards" COL: CHR SENF TO Gov NELSON. July 27th "Sir, As probably our Army will move in such a Part of the Country Richmond where a great deal of Pioneer worck will be wanted and the few regu- lar Soldiers will have much Duty, and the Militia not very fond of such
Page 260
260 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. a kind of Worck, it will become nccessary that Fifty or Sixty Negroes July 27th should be provided as Pioniers for the Army during such a time—And as the Pub is at present not provided with the necessary tools, every negro who is to go, may come provided from his Plantation with one Ax and one Spade, Hoe or Shovel." * * * "And as in a few days these negroes will be wanted, the most expe- ditious Way, in my humble Opinion, would be to send an Order to the Comanding Officers of the Militia from the nearest Counties, which are at present in Camp, to join, to propose to their men, that those who furnish a Negro, is to have fourlogh from Camp as many Days as the Negroe is employ'd as Pionier. And as all ways a covering Party will be with the Negroes when at Worck, there will be no danger of their run- ning away. The Marquis Fayette is likewise very desirous of having two 18- pounder Cannon got ready to be placed at Hoods, for the first Beginning, as soon as the Army will be able to move. Of Course the Worck of Hoods should be continued, for which the Labourers as soon as possible, should be ordered from the County of Prince George, and come likewise provided with the tools, as above mentioned, and the more Labourers, the sooner the Worck will be finish'd—One of the Mortars and two of the Brass Bight-pounders, if to be found, would be of very great service with the Army. If no Artillery Officer is present to take the Inspection over these Canons, to see them put in Order, I willfully, will do any thing what lays in my Power to see it done, for which I wait for Your Excelly's Orders. As soon as any Batteaux are finish'd, the Marquis wishes to have them transported in waggons near to the Army. I have the honor to be, with perfect Respect and the highest Estime &c." July 27th T. BENTLEY TO THE GOVERNOR. Richmond Urging the settlement of his claim: is willing to take Tobacco at pre- sent prices, having goods which he cannot redeem in any other way. As his stay in Richmond is attended with great expense, begs Mr. Ross may receive such orders from the Executive as will enable him to go to Philadelphia, where alone he can make such negotiations with the Tobacco, as will afford him relief.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 261
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 261 COL: JOHN JONES TO Gov: NELSON. 1781. July 27th Informing him of a message received from Gov: Burke of N. Carolina, Brunswick desiring his co-operation with the militia of the County, in defending the Fords of the Dan and Stanton Rivers against the Enemy—Also of Orders from Col: Davies, to send one fourth the militia to the field at once. Adds "Col: Tarlton pass'd through our County last week on his return to Portsmouth, and distressed the inhabitants greatly"—He has upwards of six hundred militia, but not fifty guns in the County, they having been impressed from time to time for public use. If he can get a few arms he can "prevent the enemy from plundering as they pass"— He will send out the "one fourth" the militia as soon as practicable, and assures him, if they can get arms they will behave well." COL: CHRIST'N FEBIGER TO COL: WM. DAVIES. July 27th From Richmond, he went to Goochland C. House, but found upon Carter's examination, the situation would not answer the puq)ose intended. He and Capt: Drew have been down to reconnoitre the "old Courthouse" and find buildings sufficient for Commissary, Quarter Masters and other Stores, and "about 400 from it, fronting James River there is an Airy Ridge of Land well timbered which will answer for Barracks"—Water is plenty and good—It is not a good military position, but can be made a good place of rendezvous, and post of defence—Provisions and Grain plenty in the Country, but grass rather scarce—There are now employed at Col: James' upwards of thirty Artificers building boats—Hopes when they are done, they may be employed to put up some Log-barracks for the Officers, and repair a house and barn for a hospital. Asks for a plan of the post at Chesterfield C. House—also for instructions in regard to the drafting and recruiting services &c. The Baron had first ordered him from Malvern Hills to Richmond; since that time he has been riding every Day, and now calls him to Charlottesville for further orders. As this mode of life is not only very fatiguing but very expensive, he desires to know how he can some pay for himself and a few men with him. On his return last night, was seized with fever and is now "oblig'd to go to Bed"—On the 31st by post-cript he writes from Cumberland Old Ct. House, that he had gotten laid in some beef and Flour; the men in tents on the hill referred to above, and he quartered at the Ct. House. Thinks it impossible to "fix Heth off unless Call will take some steps in the matter"—Artillery men much wanted in the Southern Army, and Bags- dell should go on as soon as-possible—He has written to Peyton to pro- vide -clothing for them—Asks the news, and concludes "health & happi- ness attend you, I am yett very unwell."
Page 262
262 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. GARRET VANMETER TO Gov: NELSON. July 28th Hampshire Upon receipt of his Letter by Mr. Wodrow, ho had sent by Express "°- the Commission of Oyer & Terminer to the gentlemen named in it, but as it has "fallen through" by their failure to attend at the time and place designated, his Excellency will now judge what is best to be done. He has discharged the Troop of Horse, and as their services have been considerable, gives them credit for a "tour of Duty" in accordance with the instructions from Gov: Jefferson—Apologizes for not having sooncr answered his letter" of the 22i1 & 23d ult:," but the people were so busy in their harvest, that it was impossible to "get any person to ride Express so far, there being no other mode of conveying intelligence from this quarter"—The want of a Commissioner under the Provision Law prevents his giving any idea of "the amount of Provisions in tbe County belonging to the public "—There is only flour and wheat, the latter taken for the Specific Tax, and the beeves have been consumed by the militia. The people would by no means agree to go with their Wagons, else he should have sent several Loads of flour to the Army— Some have agreed to go, after harvest is ended, "but they are reluctant, not knowing what compensation they are to have for their trouble and loss of time." Concludes "with respect to the unhappy people who have been con- cerned in the late insurrection, I did, in consequence of your letter of the 23d ult: send two Gentlemen of character to meet some others from the Counties of Augusta and Rockingham, who as I was informed had similar instructions from you, to communicate the mild intentions of the Executive towards these deluded people—I am happy in informing you that they have cheifly, all (except a few of the ring-leaders) availed themselves of your gracious offers of Pardon, and have promised to con- duct themselves hereafter as good citizens, a considerable number of them have joine'd the Army, and those who are at home, have faithfully promised to assist in apprehending the others who yet remain Obstinate. I feere this will be difficult as they have fled to the mountains and cannot be easily taken. As the Commission has fell through and as it is to be feared a very considerable difficulty may arise in geting them who were found Guilty by the County Court, Tried, could wish that a General Indemnity might be granted to the whole that have surrendered, including not only those who were set for furthec Trial, but those who were bound to the Grand Jury Court, as there will be a very striking impropriety in subjecting the latter to heavy fine & perhaps imprison- ment, when they are in all probability not near so guilty as some of those who have availed themselves of your offers contained in your letter to me of June 23d. I have therefore recommended to them to send a Peti- tion to your Excellency for that purpose, & I hope it will merit y<mr attention.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 263
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 263 As to those who remain obstinate, I submit it to your Excellency's 1781. wisdom, what you think most proper to be done with them." July 28th I am your Excellency's most obet. Scrvt." COL: WM. DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR. July 28th Having heard that some of the States stores were at Col: Friends in War Office Chesterfield, and fearing Tarleton then on his return from Prfnce Ed- ward Co might capture them, he had ordered the Quarter Master to send wagons immediately for them, but, adds "to my surprise was informed on the return of the wagons that the whole of them had been taken by order of Genl: Wayne." * * * ."I have just now received the inclosed papers from Mr. Ross, and must beg the interposition of government to put a stop to such prac- tices. There is a battalion of Virginia Troops now suffering for shoes; there are constant calls for boots for our cavalry, and if any officer of any rank whatever has the right to appropriate the stores of the State at his pleasure, at a time when our troops are in want of them, I think our situation must be truly deplorable." CAPT: A. BOHANNAN C. M. STORES, TO COL: DAVIES. July 28th As ordered, he is about to take the shortest rout to Noland Ferry in Charlottes- order to secure the mil stores at that place & will return by way of Fau- quier Co House to Fredoricksburg—Thinks Penn's Tavern the best place for a magazine, on account of the number of houses there. Encloses a list of articles needed for the Laboratory—Scissors and "Culloc" knives much wanted—Ho had been obliged to borrow from Mr. Foster Webb £2940, for the use of his Department—Hopes a Warrant will be at once transmitted to that gentleman, for this amount. Gov: NELSON TO "His EXCELLENCY THOS: M. KEAN PRESTOF CONGRESS. July 28th "Sir, I am honor'd with your Excellency's Letter of the 12th Inst: Richmond enclosing an Act of Congress respecting French Sea-men, to which you may be assured particular attention shall be paid—But from the total obstruction of our Trade by the British, I conceive there are hut very few in this State—Before I conclude, permit me to congratulate you on your late appointment. I have the honor to be &c.
Page 264
264 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. THOS: NELSON JU'R: GOV'R TO MAJ'R: CLAIBORNE Q. MAS: GENL. July 28th «gir, Richmond The large sums of money that have been advanced to your depart- ment and a requisition still for farther advances induce the Board to wish for a settlement of your accounts, that they may judge of the expenditures. Mr. Brown the Commissary General has made a demand for several waggons for the purpose of transporting Provisions. How these waggons are to be procured, but by impress, unless you can furnish him I know not. It will be proper that the Executive befurnish'd with returns of the waggons you have received from the Counties, that they may call on the delinquent counties—There is an absolute necessity that either yourself or one of your assistants should attend here—We are greatly at a loss frequently for the want of one or the other. I am Sir, Your obt. Scrvt." July 28th BROWNE PRICE, C. MIL: STORES—TO COL: DAVIES. New London He will have as many arms put in order for the militia to march, as ho can; but is in great want of musket cartridge paper—Major Mazuret calls on him for all the fixed ammunition he has, to be forwarded to Halifax old Court House, amounting to 10 or 12 wagon loads. Desires to be informed, in regard to the rumored removal of the Laboratory over the mountains to Crow's Ferry; which place has been mentioned by Col: Callaway, altho' a.11 the houses would have to be built. July 28th COL: WM. PRESTON TO Gova NELSON. "Sir, * * * * * Montgomery "This day I was honoured with a Letter from your Excellency and an ^°' official order from Col: Davies, making a requisition of one fourth of the militia of this County to march to the assistance of Genl: Green, and to continue two months on duty after they arrive at Head Quarters. I shall issue orders to the Officers this day, and shall do every thing within the compass of my Power to comply with the Demand; but I am fully convinced it is impossible. In Feby: last, when the Enemy were within a Day's Ride of the Lead Mines, I endeavoured all I could to draw out a Body of men to oppose them & could only raise about a third of our militia, at that slack season of the year and on a short Tour of Duty. In April, I roc'd orders from the late Governor to send 187 men to the aid of General Greene, from which time to the 15th of May, the
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 265
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 265 other Officers and myself laboured to raise these men, but to no purpose. 1781. late in May, I rec'd another Order to send these men, in case they had July 28th not marched Southardly, down the Country to oppose the Enemy in this State—I gave immediate Orders for this purpose, & then took a ride through the County to enforce the orders and encourage the men to turn out, and all to as little purpose as the former. From these repeated attempts to raise men this summer, your Excellency may readily Judge the poorness of the prospect I have, of getting any men to march to the Southern at this time. The backwardness of our militia arises, in my opinion, from two causes. The first is, the Dissaffection- of more than one half of the Peo- ple, which appears to me to be gaining Ground every day. It was so great last year, that beside what good men I could raise in this County, I was obliged to call for assistance from the neighbouring Counties to suppress an Insurrection that fully appeared to be impending; and hav- ing effected it at that time, after spending above a month in the Busi- ness, I don't beleive that one Proselyte was gained—and I have many reasons to beleive, that the same part will be to act over, before the end of the Campaign. The Tories cannot be drawn into the service by any means whatever, and the Whigs who would render any service, are afraid to leave their property and Connexions to the mercy of the former. The second reason that prevents our men from going out, is the exposed situation of our frontier, to the Savages, Not less than five Com- panies of Militia, live beyond the Mountains to the No'ward of the prin- cipal settlement. These are, scattered amongst the mountains at least Eighty miles, and seldom fail to be visited by Indians, two or three times every year. These Sir, are Facts, which some worthy gentlemen of your Hon'bl. Board are no strangers to; and under these unhappy cir- cumstances, I am certain it is impossible for mo to comply with the Requisition, and indeed, could such as are real Friends -to the Liberties of America, be prevailed on to go into this service, out of course, for it is they only that have done Duty, I am convinced their Families & Property would suffer. This has been often Threatened, and these men often insulted without having it in their Power to get redress, unless we come to blows & got assistance from other Counties. It gives me pain to detain your Excellency so long on such a disagree- able subject, & therefore shall conclude with assuring you, that I shall use every Exertion in Power to send all, or part of the men demanded, to General Greene, at the same time I have not the most distant hopes of success. I am, with great Esteem, your Excellency's most obt. & very humble Servt." 34
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 266
266 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS, --- 1781. July 28th Montgomery Co. CoL: W.M. PRESTON to Col: Wri. DAVIES. “Sir, I wrote to you two or three Days ago, by Lieut: Ewing & enclosed a return of the strength of the Militia of this County. I then promised that I would by the return of the Express, inform you what cloathing had been collected in this County, for the Continental Army, but Mr. Calhoune returning sooner than he intended, I am not yet enabled to make any report of the matter. - Mr. Calhoune delivered your letters to me last Wednesday & without loss of time prosecuted his Journey to Washington: After traveling about fifteen miles, he was informed at Colo Ingle's that Col: Arthur Campbell, the Lieut: of Washington had passed that place some hours before on his way home. He then crossed New River in the night, and after travelling eight or ten miles, came to a very rapid stream called Peck Creek & not being acquainted with the Ford, his horse got amongst the Rocks and threw both himself and his rider—The Saddle girth & the strap that fastened bags, broke & the bags wherein was your Letter and many papers of Mr Calhounes, was carried of by the Stream—Next day he found the bags in the Creek, but his pocket book was lost. He then returned to my house, and made oath to the above particulars, upon which I inclosed a copy of your Letter to me, with the above nar- rative & sent it off to Col: Campbell, recommending to him to go on with the draught of the seventh part of his Militia without waiting until you could send another Express to him on this Business. There are a number of Deserters lurking in these Mountains which, it has not been in my power to have taken, though I have tried every method I could for that purpose. I am told that some of them would come in, only they dread the punishment. Perhaps the Commanding Officer in Virginia might at this Critical Juncture, think it necessary and indeed prudent to publish a pardon to such as would come & behave well for the future.” >k +: “P. S. Since writing the above, I am favoured with yours of the 17th Instant, demanding a fourth part of the Militia of Montgomery to March to the Southard, and continue them two months on Duty. From the reasons I gave you in my last letter, I am fully convinced, that were every Officer in this County to turn out on the Occasion & to exert his whole Influence the fourth of this Militia could not be drawn out to serve in So Carolina—Indeed I might venture to add as my Opinion, that such is the Temper and Situation of the People, that if the Fate of the United States was to depend on this draught being complied with on the part of the Private men of our Militia, they would not go.” I am Sir, your hble Servt.”
Page 267
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 267 COL: JAS: INNES TO Gov: NELSON. 1781. "Dear Sir," July 29th Hero I am still without one man—cither Horse or foot, and as Williamsb'g much expected from as if I had a thousand. I have not an assistant of any kind, either in the Staff or line. The fear of the Small pox, paroles and various other causes will I beleive prevent the assemblage of the Militia in the counties you have ordered to be under my command. The Determination of the citizens you may learn from the within Report.* Indeed were the people collected, there are neither arms nor ammunition to put into their Hands—Unless I am properly supported in the com- mand to which I have been called, I beg to obtain yr: permission to retire. Capt: Wright, who will deliver you this, being lately from the neighborhood of Portsmouth, will give you all the Intelligence from that Quarter. I have the honor to be most respectfully yr: Excellency's most ob. Svt." RICHARD H. LEE TO Gov: NELSON. July 29th About two months before, an impressing partj- from Major Nelson's Chantilly. corps had gotten several horses in that neighborhood, and given certifi- cates to the owners—These gentlemen now desire to know whether they are to receive payment at the Treasury, or whether they are to try and recover their horses wherever they can find them. They have learned that the legal power of these impressers was doubtful. The collector .of the Specific Tax informs him, that there are "1000 bushels of corn, 600 of oats with a quantity of wheat taken by the Commissioners last year" now about to be ruined by "the Weavil" unless something is done with it. The wheat should be ground, and the corn and oats well win- nowed, but it is impossible to get persons to work "upon the prospect of government pay" tho' they may do so, if paid in part of the grain—It would be wise to allow this, not only to save the grain but to prevent "tho ill impressions which the sight of these losses makes on the peo- ple's minds"—Advises the same course in respect to a large quantity of grain "seized from Mrs. Smith, which continues yet in her corn house." doubtless overlooked in the confusion of the times—Asks for Blank Com- missions for a Lieut: Col: Major & several inferior Officers lately nomi- nated by the Court. Tho bearer of this has been employed by the people, by subscription, to go for news from the Marquis, the Enemy's movements &c, and will go to Malvern Hills,—he sends this letter by him to Richmond and hopes he may be paid something for this extra service &c. * Not found.
Page 268
268 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JAMES BELSCHER JNR: TO COL. DAVIES. July 29th Cabin Point His Express received—Is sorry to inform him he was taken prisoner at Petersburg on the 9th May last by the Queen's Rangers & paroled. On this account he thinks he* cannot act officially unless he is included in the Exchange of those of the Militia who were .paroled to the 15th June—Desires to be informed on this head—The Business shall however be carried on by another person, and he is glad to know that the Execu- tive have taken measures relative to the Horses &c left by the British Army: as great abuses have been committed in regard to horses. July 29th BERRYMAN GREEN D. Q. MASTER, TO COL: DAVIES. Charlottes- On receipt of his letter, he wrote to Capt: Hamilton in the most e pressing manner, to use every effort to have the boat carriages ready. As they cannot be gotten from him, begs for instructions what he is now to do—Has written to Major Claiborne on the subject, but "he is very sick at Carters Ferry and is likely to continue so for some time." As Major Claiborne's illncss prevents his communicating with Col: Davios as he had expected, Major Magill at Winchester and Col: Hendricks at Alexandria who also are engaged in this business, have been written to on the subject. July 30th Gov: NELSON TO COL: JAS: INNES at Williamsburg. "Dear Sir, Richmond As I imagine it is still undesirable to make Wmsburg the Rendezvous of the Militia ordered to be embodied under your Command for the Protection of the lower part of-this Neck, you -will appoint such place as your Judgment shall direct for that Purpose. The bad conse- quences of spreading the Small Pox, will not escape you, so that I shall suggest no caution to you on that score. Should any of the Militia per- sist in pleading their Paroles as an excuse for not performing military service, which I hope no one will be so ignorant or unmindful of his Duty as to do, it is necessary that he be proceeded against, according to the Proclamation issued by the late Governor, which Proclamation has received the Sanction of the General Assembly. A strict adherence to this Order of Government may in softie cases bear an appearance of cruelty, but the insidious Arts of the Enemy & the general welfare render it indispensable. It is however, my Desire, that no Person be rigorously dealt with, when there is a Prospect of bringing back to a better sense of what is due to his Country. I am &c.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 269
CALENDAR or STATE PAPERS. 269 Gov: NELSON TO THE TREASURER. "Sir, The Inconveniences which result from the great Distance between the seat of Government & Public Treasury have induced the Executive to determine that the Treasury shall be immediately brought back again to this Place. I am therefore to request that you will take such steps, as will be most likely to effect a speedy Removal of it hither, & that you will leave every thing behind which is not absolutely necessary." I am &c. Gov: NELSON TO "TiiE AUDITORS OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS." 1781. July 30th Richmond July 30th "Gentlemen, The great obstructions which public busincss meets with, Richmond from the separation of the different Boards of Government, make it adviseable to rccal them immediately to this Place. I must therefore Request that you will lose as little Time as possible in returning hither, as every Day most strongly evinces the necessity of your attendance. The Executive are of opinion, that no more of the public Books & Papers be brought back at this Time, than are requisite for the proceeding on Business. I am &e." COL.: CHN SENF TO COL: DAVIES. July 30th "Sir, The Major Genl: the Marquis Fayette has ordered me again to Richmond remind Government of the necessity to have all Canons, which are fit for service, collected, and without the least Loss of time, .mounted. And as likewise not a Single Ax, nor any kind of Intrenching tools are with the Army, nor in Store, immediate Steps may be taken to pro- cure them by some means or other. You, as a military man, will find the necessity, that the Canons should be mounted and Intrenching tools found—Suppose we should have an opportunity to cooperate with our Allies, we would be in want of all these Articles—And if we should have no occasion for the offensive, still they will be necessary for our immediate Defence. "Any Service, I can render to the State in this way, I shall always think it my Duty to comply with it immediately; but cannot help expressing my uneasiness to you, in case anything in my Department should be wanted, when I have not the least Prospect to command a Single Tool. I have the Honour to be, with duo Respect anil high Esteem Your most obt: humble Servant."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 270
270 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: LEWIS BURWELL TO Gov: NELSON. July 30th Mecklen- The order for one fourth the Militia of the County to march to the burg Co. Souih just reeeived—The Officers were engaged collecting the seventh part, the number first required—The men will be enrolled and officered, but it will be absolutely impossible to arm them. The frequent impress- ment of Arms from the people has well nigh disarmed the County—He does not think five men can be supplied with good guns—The people hide their arms, and say they will risk their liven, rather than give up what few remain. He therefore desires to know whether ho is to send the men without arms. He has received from Mr. George Nicholas, a Receipt for thirteen horses impressed in the County &c. July 30th RD. YARBROUGH COMMR TO Cot.: DA VIES. Dinwiddie He has received the instructions, with the Order in Council, respect- ing the collecting and securing the estray horses and cattle left by the Enemy in the County. The people having "got intelligence of this, have secreted many, deny they have them or insist that those they have were stolen from them by the Enemy &c—" The horses are held by peo- ple who would take every advantage, and some of them for a small profit, would cheat America of Independence, if they could." Although still engaged in those duties, he is so much annoyed, that ho thinks unless "some measures be taken with these wretches" who are really guilty of horse-stealing, nothing can be done. Recommends that some of them be carried to Richmond and made examples of, so to deter others. July 30th CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: DAVIES. Richmond He has not yet been able to establish "a chain of Expresses from hence to the neighborhood of the Enemy" by the way of Petersburg. The demand for Expresses so great, that they cannot be furnished for the Executive or his office—Many men would agree to act, but they think the Enemy will soon leave the State, consequently their services will not be needed long. He cannot possibly engage any workmen to mount the Cannon, unless ho can pay them in hard money or the cur- rent Exchange. If the Executive would establish some satisfactory rate of Exchange, he could do much, which must now be neglected.
Page 271
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 271 Col: G. Vanmeter informs Col: Wm. Davies, that the wagon furnished 1781. by his County for public use has been delivered at Winchester. He has July 30th twenty three suits of clothing ready to be delivered; the three remain- Hampshire ing to make up the number required will soon be ready. COL: CHAS: M. THRUSTON TO THE GOVERNOR. July 30th Giving reasons why no beef cattle can be furnished from the County Frederick Co as required—Winchester having been for a long time the general ren- dezvous for the militia of that County, and the "Convention" and other captive Troops having been quartered there so long, all the cattle of the surrounding Country had been consumed by them &c. MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO COL: WM. DAVIES. July 30th "Dear Sir, I received your two favours of the 23d & 27th of this month. Mr. Carter my ill state of health continues—am still an entire helpless person in Harrison's bed. Your observations respecting Carriages that might be drawn from the different Posts, I cannot reply to with precision, but will make the attempt. It gives mo much concern, that the Reports of the County Lieutenants, and the Asst: Deputy Quarter Masters differ so materially. I will endeavour to find out any mistake that may be among the Q. Mas- ters & correct them. I have issued a Circular Order that all the clothing (as fast as it is received) at the different Posts (so as to make a Load) be sent to Capt: Peyton without loss of time. I shall be ready at all times to receive such stores as belong to the Quarter Masters department (that the State may have, to supply the Continent with) & have them issued to the Quarter Masters of the Army. Capt: Russell will (I hope) be in charge of the Richmond Dis- trict in a few days. his orders and receipts shall be good for anything, or if the State Quarter Master will issue to the Q. Master to the Army, taking duplicate receipts in Capt: Russell's name, they shall be good." ***** "What reply to give you respecting the waggons wanted for tho Mar- quis' Army I really am at a loss for. Impressing is out of the Question with me, because I have no force, and to attempt to purchase at so late a period & without money would be chimerical—I have made frequent attempts to hire, but with no success at all. The people entertain so detestable an opinion of the Army, that they cannot be prevailed on to serve with it, with property so liable to be lost & destroyed—When his Excellency, the Governor was at Stanton, I transmitted to him a full
Page 272
272 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. representation of the situation of the department. I mentioned to him July 30th particularly the necessity of having moving magazines, with the Army, & other waggons & teams to collect from the Country & supply them; but to this I have received no answer—Unless I have the aid of Government, I shall not be able to do anything. I have received a letter from the Q. M. General, wherein he candidly owns that ho cannot assist me—this is my situation as to Northern prospects—I have received nothing, nor do I beleive I shall, of either money, articles ready for use, or materials. You cannot oblige mo more than by mentioning to the Executive this matter, respecting the waggons & find what they purpose to do in it. I thank you for the concern which you express at my illness, & good wishes for my recovery. God grant I could be restored to a state of action this day—I would be with you in Richmond as soon as the low estate of my body would permit me to be carried—The decrees of Fate must be submitted to, and our greatest virtues consist in receiving & bearing them with a becoming dignity; but notwithstanding I consider all this, my feelings are much hurt, that I am rendered so helpless a per- son at this time. • As it is not in my power to come down, I have directed Mr. Green to return with the Office immediately—ho is a Gentleman, whom you will find active & cleaver—You cannot lay me under a greater obligation than by giving him all the assistance in your power. I hope the executive will be-pleased to consider my situation & rest assured that the moment it is in my power, I will join my office." I am with every Sentiment of esteem & regard Dear Sir, your Obedt. Hble Servt." P. S. A gentleman has done me the favour to write while I dictated this Letter. July 30th COMMODORE J. BARRON TO . "Sir, Mill Creek, I have the Honor to inform you that this morning early 40 sail of BWt *^c ^°°t weigned from Hampton road, having on board a number of Horse & Troops, with 12 largo Barges full of men, & stood down towards the Cape—Having got in the proper channel, endeavoured to stand up the Bay, but the wind & tide being ahead, have anchored ncar the Cape. From every movement, I think they are bound up the Bay. they have left 10 sail in the Road & two men of war—this fleet must contain near Three thousand troops, as they were very full. The wind has just shifted Fair to goe up the Bay—Shall be able to informe you by my next what course they take. One of the Transports is aground on
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 273
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 273 Wiliaby (Willoughby) Point. Tho' I cant think, if they were bound to 1781. Sea, they wou'd wait for her. July 30th I have the Honour to be Sir &c." "A copy of his Letter." COL: SENF TO COL: DAVIES, enclosing memd. of Leslie's force at Ports- July 31st mouth. "Sir, If the State at present could procure the following number of Powhatan Intrenching Tools, it may be sufficient in our present circumstances. *ort 200 Axes, 400 Spades, 200 Shovels, 100 Hoes, With Handles, and for the conveniency of transporting. The Handles may be tied 50 Pick axes, / together in Bundles, and can 100 Fashine Knifes or Small Hatchets, 4 Cross-Cut Saws, always be fix'd when neces- sary. 6 Hand Saws. Besides this, whenever convenient, the same number of Tools or more, in the same proportion may be procured, in case the above mentioned Tools should be lost. Some Wheel and Hand-Barrows, and Carpenters Tools of all kinds, at least for twelve Carpenters, will be necessary. Tho Artillery, what can be collected, will be best to mount all Brass Cannon in Travelling Carriages, and two or three of the Iron 18-pound- ers. All Iron Canons on Battery or Ship Carriages, except the Six- pounders and those of less calibre, on travelling Carriages. For the Transportation of the Canons and Mortars, three.or four Carry Logs will be wanted, and some strong Ammunition Waggons for the Artillery. Four 18-pounder new Carriages—the chocks for three Eight-pounder travelling Carriages, and a quantity of good seasoned Wood, ready pre- pared for Carriage Wheels remain yet at the old public work-shop in Richmond, which may'd be very usefull. I am with due .Respect your mo: hble Servnt." "Genl: Leslie's Force at Portsmouth. f Detachment of the 17th at Ivy's, 12 miles this side of Portsmouth, under Lieut: Col: Johnson 2001 Fortifying a Strong 2. Companies 76th at ditto 120 j pass. 2. Battn of Anspacks ) doin8 dutv 1000 fat G. Bridge 260 1 do Hessians Col: De Tucks j Norfolk & Portsmouth 35
Page 274
274 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. July 31st Jagers July 31st Bichmond July 31st Richmond 50 1630 effectives Out of the above is 60 mounted. Royall Artillery 70 Genl: Arnold with Robertson's Regt: the whole only 63, rank & file gone to New York. No ships of force and very few frigates." Gov: NELSON TO COL: DAVIES.* "Sir, The Marquis has urged so strongly the mounting several Pieces of heavy Cannon on travelling Carriages, that I must desire you to give the most pointed Orders for carrying this Business into immediate exe- cution. The delay of a few days may produce the most unhappy consequences. I am sensible that the public are not possessed of mate- rials for this work; for which Reason, it will be necessary, disagreeable as impressing is, that Artificers, Tools, and every thing requisite be taken wherever they are to be found, if not to be procured by any other means. I am &c. "CIRCULAR TO THE COUNTY LIEUTENANTS" FROM GOVR NELSON.* "Sir, The Harvest being over, I hope the Militia, which have been ordered into Service from your County, will take the field with the greatest alacrity. There never was a Time, when vigorous measures were more necessary, or when they promised greater advantages. Every Exertion will be made by the Enemy, if not to subdue, to gain Posts in this Country; ftnd a successful opposition on our Part, which the strength of this State is very capable of making, by frustrating their Expectations, will in all Probability, together with this Campaign put a happy Period to the War. I am &c. July 31st Dr. Col: JNO: ROBERTSON TO COL: "I have sent an Issuing Commissary to Boyd's Ferry with appoint- ment & Instructions—Mr. Browne has likewise ordered the County Commissioners of Halifax to deliver the necessary supplies—Genl: Muhlenburg march'd last evening with a Regt: of the L. Infantry Camp Mai- bourn Hills *These are signed "T. N."
Page 275
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 275 Brigade—is to have a large detchmt: wth him on the other aide the 1781. river— July 31st I have sent an Issuing Commissary and instructions wth him—have wrote to Colo Parker respecting my department in his Brigade—Sent him an appointment for any person he may think proper to recommend &c— I am happy to have it in my power to inform you, that I have got the Militia &c. on the same footing with the regular Troops & all agree- able to Resolves of Congress"— * * * Remain with real Esteem Yr: most obed: Servt"— MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO Gov: NELSON. July 3lst "Sir, I had the honour to receive your Excellencies favour of the 28th Carter's of July yesterday, in the decline of the afternoon, wherein is mentioned that large sums of money have been advanced to the Quarter Master's Department in this State, with the desire of the Board, that a settle- ment of my accounts may be made, that they may judge of the expen- ditures—Whatever might be the opinion of the Board, I confess myself not a little surprised at their observations respecting the sums of money advanced & their wish for a settlement of the accounts—I beg leave to ask, to what do these large sums amount, when reduced to their intrinsic value ?—Caleulate the depreciation, with the distant periods at which I received money from the Treasury, and it will be found, that by the time it was received and paid out by the Assistant Deputy Quarter Mas- ters, the value was in a great measure lost— Contracts in this department are not made in the present currency (unless we have money to discharge the debt immediately) but in specie: so that the creditor may have justice done him in an equivalency in paper money, at the time of payment, as specie is out of the question— Congress resolved that the current depreciation should be paid upon all specie contracts, a copy of which resolution is now in my Officer- This considered, and compared with what money I have received, I think the Board will not find the sums advanced to me so largo as they imagined— With respect to the settlement of my accounts, I am at a loss for the real meaning of the Board—If they expect an Examination of them, I beg leave to inform them, that from the instructions which I have received, I can only render my accounts to one person, that is the Quar- ter Master General. The Accomptant in my Office has been for a long time, & now is, closely employed in settling the accounts & I have no doubt but that they will be satisfactory. As to the Board, judging of the expenditures, I
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 276
276 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. beg leave to inform them, that the rules which I have received from July 31st Congress, and the Quarter Master Genl, together with my knowledge of the duties of the department, convince me, that the disbursements are proper, unless some should deviate from those rules, which has not yet been the case. I only lament that so little justice has been done to those in the department and their creditors. Instead of money being advanced to pay them for their services, and to enable them to discharge their public debts, they have transacted the business independant of that compensation which they had a right to receive, & disappointed those good citizens who parted with their property on the faith of their promises, founded on that of the Public. If the Board think the expen- ditures are great, let mo assure them, that were they Possest with a knowledge of the Business, they would think very differently. If the sums already advanced are considered large, what will the Board think, when I affirm to them, that three Mi'lions of Pounds will scarcely pay of the persons employed, and the debts that are due in the department at this time. Did the Board mean not to advance any money untill a settlement of my accounts could be made? If so, I flatter myself they meant to answer the consequences, & not that any blame should be thrown on^ me in case of a failure in business. I consent to no such thing, but ask for means to pay off the debts & carry on the business of the department—If I recollect right, I think I have informed your Excellency, that my only depondance was upon the Government of Virginia for support to the department, & for the means necessary to carry on the business of it; but lest I may be mistaken, I beg leave now to do it—& that you may be the more fully convinced of my situation, I enclose to your Excellency a Copy of a letter which I yesterday receiv'd from the Quarter Master General—By this you will find ho has totally left me to myself, to do as well as I can. As to the Waggons call'd for by the Commissary General I am at a great loss to know how they will be furnished, as your Excellency can possibly be. I have endeavoured to hire, which was the only way, I had to obtain any, but the attempts have been entirely unsuccessful, as no one will go near the Army with his waggons & Teams, that can pos- sibly avoid it. Those Waggons which were to have been Brigaded in the different Counties, I expected great assistance from, but have been totally disappointed. Experience has taught that under such a regulation, -which is so little attended to by the people, we shall seldom or never be benefitted by it. The Waggons that were called for by the law of the October Session have been equally as deficient. Your Excellency has desired a return of those which have been received; perhaps Colo Davies has this already, & can give you early information; but if he has not, I will write imme- diately to the Asst: Deputy Quarter Masters, & have a return made out as soon as possible.
Page 277
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 277 I am frequently called upon in very pressing terms for Waggons for 1781. the Army in this State, but it is well known that of myself, I cannot July 31st furnish a single one—I beg leave to ask your Excellency whether you have taken into consideration my proposial which I transmitted to you when at Stanton, respecting Waggons, for Army Magazines & Collectors. This was a regulation always Kept up in the Northern Army & I con- sidered it would have been of the same advantage here. However, should this be thought unnecessary, how are waggons to be obtained for other purposes for the Army? I have not the direction of the means of Government, nor can I do more than to ask for them. I leave it to the Executive, to determine by what ways & means, they are to be obtained; but most certain it is they must be had—I have directed an assistant Deputy Quarter Master, to take charge of the Richmond District, as soon as possible, which I hope will not be many days first. I have also written for my Office to be removed to Richmond without loss of time. Mr. Berryman Green is the Gentleman who transacts the business in my absence—I beg leave to recommend him to your Excellencies atten- tion. I have been so unfortunate as to be confined to my Bed, at Mr. Carter Harrison's (ever since the 24th of this month) with a Fever, and violent Rheumatic pain in my left Hip—When I left Charlottesville, I had been only three days out of my Bed from a considerable spell of sickness which I had there, but my anxiety to see the Executive, induced me to set out at all Risks—I beg leave to assure your Excellency, that the moment I am restored to a state of action, I shall be with my office with- out delay, as no anxiety can exceed that of mine, to answer the trust reposed in me & the demands of the service, as far I have it in my power. I have the honour to be, with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Your Excellencies most obt Hble Servt." WM. FANNING TO GOV'R NELSON. July 31st "Sir, A cartel for the Exchange of the militia Prisoners having lately Greenesvillo been agreed on, at Charles Town, under the auspices of Lord Cornwallis Co. & Major General Greene, aud notified to the Publick by the Commissary of Prisoners, I beg leave to apply for a Passport to Portsmouth for Mr. Application John Wickham. He comes within the Description of the Cartel as vou {°T P?ssPort 'J for Mr. John will observe by his case stated in a Letter of the late Governor to Major Wickham, Ware, a copy whereof, has lately been transmitted to you by Mr. Tazo- *c- well. Should a Passport be thought necessary, still permit me to entreat your Excellency for one Line, which may be shown by Mr. Wickham to Col: Parker to prevent any Interruption, and to facilitate his Journey
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 278
278 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPEBS. 1781. to Portsmouth, where he wishes to embark for New York as soon as July 31st possible—The Propriety of my making this application, arises from Mr. Wickham's having by Authority, been remitted to my care, as will appear by the Letter before referred to. You will I hope, Sir, be so good as to excuse the Trouble I give you on this Occasion. I am Your Excellency's Most Obt, hble Servt." July 3lst COL: WM. DA VIES* COMMISSIONER OF WAR TO THE GOVERNOR. Sir, War Office The enlarged duties of my office have so much increased the writing business, that there is an absolute necessity for another clerk. It is with great reluctance I ask it, and if it originated from a desire of lessoning my own application, I should think myself justly entitled to a refusal. ***** Applies for It is my earnest desire to do the Country ample justice in the appoint- aid in his of- ment with which I have been honored, and upon principles of economy, reasons I solicit the means of doing it; as from a well regulated arrangement, therefor and frequent examination into the different departments subjected to the cognizance of this office,'I have a hope that important advantages may be derived—It may however be my great misfortune to fail in my expec- tations—I may be unhappy enough to be exposed to the censure of my Countrymen from a variety of untoward events, which it might not be in my power to prevent—I would wish therefore to have the means of justification: at present I have it not, as I have not been able to have copies taken of more than eight or ten of letters since I have been in the office; and at present are more particularly embarrassed from Mr. Pat- teson's not having had the Small Pox. The third clerk would have been allowed by the last Assembly, but a gentleman unacquainted with the business, observed to the house, that ail ho' it would undoubtedly be necessary at the next Session to make such an appointment, yet as the business was not yet put into a proper channel agreeably to the proposed arrangements, it was not then neces- sary; not reflecting that it was a matter of more difficulty to get things into one regular channel than to control them afterwards. I shall be happy to be favour'd with as early an answer as your business will per- mit, and have the honor to be with the greatest respect, your Excellen- cy's most obedt Servt. *This letter is recorded almost at length, on account of the merits, of this Excel- lent Officer; who had succeeded to the difficulties of a position, from which his pre- decessor had been removed for inefficiency.
Page 279
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 279 "List of Negro Slaves brought into Halifax Co. by Wm. Hawkins of 1781. North Carolina";—by John Thomas of North Carolina; by John Brown July — of N. Carolina; by Richd: Griffin So. Carolina—by John Burton of Halifax Georgia; by Isaac Mills of Georgia, and Samuel Kelly of South Caro- Court lina—in all sixty nine—duly registered in the Office of the County Court, by the Clerk—Their owners allowed this privilege by Act of Assembly, to escape the advance of the Enemy in these several States. JOHN BLAIR, NATH'L BURWELL, JOHN DE SIQUEYRA, J: MADISON, AND July — J. PRENTIS, TO GOV'R NELSON. "Sir, We think it a Duty incumbent upon us, to lay before you yo pres- Williamsb'g ent state of ye Hospital for Lunaties—It is destitute of every necessary for its support—The unhappy objects which are now here, have been without cloathes for some time past—they are now also without Provis- ions—The Keeper, previous to ye Arrival of ye British Army at this Place, obtained Provisions from ye Commissaries by means of an order from Gov'r Jefferson for that Purpose—But at present there is no such officer here, & therefore . that Resource is at an end—We submit this state to your Excellency, because we doubt not, if it be possible, that you will make such Provision for ye unhappy sufferers as is absolutely requisite, by supplying them with proper cloathing & by enabling ye Keeper to draw Provisions from such Commissaries as may be appointed at this Place, or at any Place convenient to it. We have enclosed a List* of ye Persons now in ye Hospital & have added the Counties from whence they were sent, in Hopes that your Excellency will order ye means of returning them to their respective Counties provided no method can be adopted for their support." We are Sir, Your most obet Servants. "The papersf of Arthur Morison \ Falmouth July ~ Wm Love J Do Adam Hunter ^ James Somervill I Fredericksburg "Wm. Wyat ) "James Miller Port Royal "Andrew Crawford Leeds Town Robt Beverley Blandfield *Not found. t This document is without date—The events of 1781, July, show however, that this Order must have been issued about this time.
Page 280
280 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. July — Archibald Ritchie Phill: Grymes James Miles Geo: Larimar Simon Frazer Crosby Ralph Wormley Sen: & Jur: Provards Andersons David Briggs Hobs hole Urbanna Neighbourhood of Ditto Falmouth The whole to be seized and Sealed up on the Inst: and at the same hour, by confidential persons appointed and authorized by tho Executive forthat purpose, who must make faithful reports in writing, transmitting to the Board any original papers tending to nefarious prac- tices, so that the laws in such cases may be carried into full execution. Montague's conduct respecting the Flag should be investigated by a Court of Enquiry, and notice taken of those who furnished provisions to the Enemy's Ships of War at Urbanna." August 1st MAJ'R CHAS: DICK TO Gov: NELSON. Frederic'sb'g Sending for tho amount of Two Warrants on the Treasury to be paid for the use of tho Gun Factory, and urging the speedy payment of the money, as it has been with the greatest difficulty ever since April last, that the workmen have been retained—His own Credit has been "pawned as far as possible"—With all the confusion and trouble, more work has been done than could have been expected, "in making & repairing arms &c"—The lowest depreciation at Fredericksburg "is now 500 for 1." The wages of the workmen from 3s. to 6 shillings pr: day, in hard money—at this rate the two warrants are a trifle—concludes "I fear the corruptness of the people in general, will soon put a stop to its circulation altogether." August 1st DAVID Ross TO COL: DA VIES. Richmond In regard to the implements &c wanted by the Marquis—A consider- able number of spades & shovels and pick-axes can be gotten at the Fork, by taking them "out of the river"—Anderson's people can make the Facine knives, Mr. Hunter the axes and hoes: but the saws must be purchased. The carpenters tools he cannot get. The high opinion he entertains of Genl: Spotswood as an officer and a man, shall always command his best exertions to aid him, and he sin- cerely regrets "the situation of our affairs" forbids it at present.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 281
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 281 MEMORIAL OF GEORGE HANCOCK LATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA TO THE EXECU- TIVE OF VIRGINIA. 1781. August 1st Representing his having been obliged to take refuge in this State with Powatan Co. his property, composed in part of "sixty three slaves" duly registered in the County of Henry—From "the exorbitant prices of every neces- sary of life" his money is exhausted, and ho therefore prays for leave to dispose "of the following slaves for the support of himself and family viz Dick a fellow 28 years of age—Portugese 19—Primus 30—Abraham 35—Sylvina 30, & Peter 7—in all six." JOHN BROWNE, COM: GENL: TO COL: DAVIES. August 1st For want of wagons, two days provisions have failed to reach the Malbourn army, consequently the troops must suffer greatly—Both the Governor" and Major Claiborne have been addressed upon this most important sub- ject—Can it be remedied? Unless wagons are immediately sent, the army cannot be fed. DAVID Ross TO THE GOVERNOR. August 1st In regard to the late Order in Council respecting the collecting and Richmond securing estray horses and cattle left by the Enemy &c—He is interested somewhat in this matter, and will cheerfully comply with the directions of the Executive; but begs leave to say, that upon every principle of right, and the privileges of Landholders, he is justly entitled to such of these animals as were left upon his estates in Fluvanna and Goochland counties—The expence of curing and pasturage of them "bears a great proportion to their value," in as much as they were left miserably poor, with sore backs; and by no means as valuable as those carried off by the Enemy from the same Estates. The facts are these—When the Enemy left his Estates, which they had occupied ten days, they left a number of horses in his enclosures, most of which were seized upon by the people and carried off before he could get to his plantations—He considered those left under these cir- cumstances as estray, the enemy losing their right in them as soon as they were out of their power, and not being recovered, they are not the property of any one; the sole right of "taking up & posting" being thereby vested in him "agreeable to law & custom"—Under these cir- cumstances and to give owners an opportunity of recovering their property, he had requested that the horses taken away should be returned—Some persons complied, but many still keep the most valu- able of them. Those returned have been appraised "by two respectable 36
Page 282
282 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Freeholders" advertised by description &c at the Court Houses and August 1st public places a month ago, and copies taken to be inserted in "the Gazette when there shall be one in the State." The Order in Council of July 19th was intended to remedy the evils consequent upon the habit of peoples' taking up horses &c as "free plunder," without right thereto. The measures which he has adopted with regard to those left in his enclosures, he urges are right, and "fully warranted by the Law of the Land," and that a delivery to the Quarter Master of a copy of the descriptions of the horses &c. to be entered on his list, will be answering the salutary purposes intended by that Order. August 1st "Forms" of "returns" made under the Law levying Specific Tax in grain &c—by Commissioners—County from which collected; by whom, and for which service, Continental or State—Grain,—Corn, Oats, Rye, Barley—Spirits reet.—Rum, Brandy & Whisky—Amount received— amt. Issued and amount on hand—Amount commuted—&c. August 1st Gov: NELSON TO Co. LIEUT OF ACCOMACK Co. "Sir, Richmond It being of the greatest Importance that Government receive the earliest Intelligence of every thing material on the Sea Coast, which your situation gives you an opportunity of observing, I most earnestly request that you will adopt the best method which your judgment shall point out, of communicating to me whatever of moment you shall learn or discover. I am &c. August 1st Gov: NELSON TO "COLO. SIR JOHN PEYTON BAR:" "Sir, Richmond The Government having Occasion for some swift sailing Boats for the Purpose of crossing the Bay, your Situation, Influence & constant Attention to the Interests of your Country, induce me to apply to you & to request that you will procure two Boats of the kind mentioned, & have them always ready for the orders of the Public. You will excuse the trouble I give you, & inform me whether it will be in your Power to comply with this Requisition. I am &c. August 1st GOV'R NELSON TO COMMODORE BARRON. "Sir, Richmond As it is of the greatest consequence that we have the earliest infor- mation of the Enemy's movements in your Quarter, especially those on
This page contains an image.
Page 283
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 283 the water, you will be pleased to continue your attention most closely 1781. to thom, & with as much Dispatch as possible convey most minutely to August 1st us, what you observe, or can gai n any knowledge of—You are not to be' told of what Importance it is to Government, in Times like these, to have good Intelligence, & we think it a particular Piece of good Fortune, that a Gentleman in whom we can place the fullest confidence, is so situ- ated, as to be able to do us the most essential Service in this Respect. Orders have been given that you be furnished with the proper means of conveyance. I am Sir &c. GOVR: NELSON TO BRIO: GENL: STBVENS. August 1st "Sir, The assembly having resolved that you be presented by the Pub- Richmond lie with a Horse &c, I shall take the greatest Pleasure in having these Resolutions executed: and that it may be done in a way, which will make this mark of the approbation of your country most acceptable to you, I wish to be informed whether you know of any Horse which will particularly suit you, and I will give orders to have him purchased. I am &c. Gov: NELSON TO "His EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR OF MARYLAND." August 1st "Sir, I have just received Information from the Bay Side, that a Fleet Richmond of British Transports, in which are supposed to be embarked about 3000 men, has fallen down from Hampton Road into the Bay—The Wind & Tide were both unfavourable for their standing up, & they had come to: from which we have Reason to apprehend that their object is up the Bay—I hope, should their Intention be to attack any Port of your State, that you will have time to make some Preparations for their Reception. The Marquis has moved upwards, since receiving Intelli- gence of this Movement of the Enemy, and is now only two miles below this Place. I have the Honour to be, Sir, with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Your most obed't and very hble Servt." COL: GEORGE GIBSON TO Gov: NELSON. August 1st Enclosing Copy of a highly commendatory letter dated Feby 5th Penn'a, 1781 from Gov: Jefferson to himself, expressing a desire to retain him Cumberland in his command, upon the reorganization of the Virginia State Forces. Col: Gibson proceeds to give his reasons for not accepting this offer at that time—Although he had been five years in the army, and had
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 284
284 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. determined to serve during the war, he could not remain without doing August 1st violence to his feelings: having served since 1777 under every disad- • vantage, resulting from unjust promotions of others over himself and brother officers, against which he had remonstrated in vain. To have continued to serve under those circumstances would have been pusil- lanimus, and he with others had quitted a service rendered "disgusting" both to men and Officers—He had therefore become a supernumery in the State Establishment, and left a State of which he considered him- self a "subject" and to which his was strongly attached—With all this, his heart has often "ached" to see the Enemy rapidly and unchecked marching over the country, and altho' an obscure and possibly long for- gotten individual, he again tenders his services to Virginia, and begs not to be exempted, at this critical time, from the advantages accruing to Officers retiring "cum priviligio" from active military duty. August 2nd BENJ: HARRISON JUR: CONTINENTAL PAY MASTER OF VIRGA. TO THE GOVERNOR. Richmond Requesting him to order any money that may be designed for his use, from the Virginia Treasury, to be paid to Mr Bassett Stith, whose receipt shall be acknowledged by him &c. August 2nd PETER Hoo TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Rockingham I have the honour lo enclose to your Excellency a petition from John Claypole and others, concerned in the late Insurrection in Hamp- shire County; which I wish from motives of good policy, as well as humanity may have the desired eifect. As I apprehend it would be attended with pernicious consequences to hold out pardon to those who denied to surrender themselves to Justice, or delayed to submit to the Laws of their Country, untill they were sure of escaping punishment; and at the same time to prosecute those who readily submitted the Investigation and punishment of their crimes, to the Laws of the Land: since it would certainly operate as an Encouragement to future offenders to stand out untill they were assured of Indemnity. Another political reason I beg leave to assign, is the many relations & connexions that the Claypole Family have in that part of the Country: as there is the Father & 5 sons, with many grand children, who by inter- marriages are connected with the most considerable Families on those waters, and the strongest friends to our present Constitution, and to prosecute him with rigour, whilst the ringleaders have evaded Justice by flight, and those in similar circumstances of Guilt are pardoned,
Page 285
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 285 would probably sour the minds of his numerous connexions, and per- 1781. haps be reguarded by them as pointed and partial. August 2nd I must also add, that he has a Letter from Genl: Morgan engaging to procure his pardon, on his returning to his Duty—Humanity also pleads strongly in their behalf, for on my attending the intended Court of Oyer the 10th ult: for the Trial of those Miscreants, as directed by your Excellencies Letter, I had the opportunity of viewing the distressing Scenes of aged mothers, wives, & children crowding to the Court house to take the last Leave of their unhappy Sons, husbands & fathers, appre- hending that Execution would be immediate on the Sentence of Death, which, in spite of all my aversion to Tories, strongly affected my feel- ings—I need not mention to a Gentleman of your approved Goodness of Heart, the maxim of a celebrated Writer "that it is the Enormity, or dangerous Tendency of a Crime that alone can warrant any Earthly Legislature in putting him to Death, that commits it." And tho' the crime of the petitioners was of the most dangerous Tendency, yet they transgressed more thro Ignorance than Design; and their offence pro- ceeded rather from Error & prejudice, than any deliberate Intention of injuring the State, or disturbing Government: from all which consider- ations I would humbly presume that the honblo Board will extend the Act of Indemnity, as well to the petitioners herein referred to, as to all those, who were by the Examining Court, bound over to be indicted at the next grand Jury for the County" &c &c. ***** I have the honour to be, Your Excelly's most obt & very humble Servt." THOS: LEGARE TO THE EXECUTIVE OF VIRGINIA. August 2nd "Circumstanced as I am, at a vast distance from my family, and an Richmond Order Issued by our Enemies for their removal from our State, I cannot but be very anxious to get to the Southern Army as soon as possible: when I can take the necessary measures to prevent a very great addi- tion to our present mutual sufferings and distresses—This must be my apology for the trouble I give your Excellency by this." Ho had rec'd assurances of assistance from the Executive, and begs to enquire whe- ther the Council have consented to grant it—Has no claim as an Officer in any capacity whatever, but merely as a citizen suffering the total loss of every means of support of himself or the "Common Cause"— Desires only a loan, which shall be returned "if South Carolina is ever recovered from the British Army"—If Gov: Rutledge has gone to So Carolina to establish Civil Government there it is important that as many of the Genl: Assembly of the State (of which he is a member) should meet him as can do so—Should this application be granted,
Page 286
286 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. npthing less than Twenty thousand pounds will suffice for himself and August 2nd a friend in like circumstances; the present currency of Va. being "Five hundred for one"—Two Horses and Saddles will be wanted, to buy which and pay their expenses in Richmond, will leave scarce enough to take them to North Carolina. Begs his Excellency will return a speedy answer, as his expenses accumulate and his Finances are low. August 2nd * WM. FOWLER TO COL: DA VIES. Albemarle Mr. Ross had promised a supply of two thousand yards of linnen s tnree wecks agO, but not a yard received—Is sorry to say, that unless immediately supplied with linnen & thread, the tailors will be idle, and "rambling about the Barracks." August 2nd JOHN Gr. MERCER TO GoV: NELSON. "Sir, Marlborough I left the Army of this Country, to which the critical affairs had drawn me, when the manoeuvres of Ld: Cornwallis demonstrated his real system to be no longer pointed to a General Action with the Ameri- can Troops, and little dreaming that a General & Army, to which their Country look up for the conquest of States, would disgrace themselves into Pickaroons. The manoeuvre up the Bay, can only be, with the intention of putting their threats of'Depredation into execution. Should it be thought proper to guard agst these more than probable events, I beg leave to make an offer to raise a Body of Gentlemen, from whom real service may be expected; indeed they are not to be, but already raised, waiting only orders. With a most Sincere regard & high veneration for your Person & character, I have the honor to be mo: respectfully. P. S. I should be happy to receive your Orders, the terms on which you would wish men embodyed & what encouragements would be allowed—I would promise that the men I brought into the field would furnish their Horses & Uniforms, & march where ordered, in or out the State & stay as long as I Staid myself." August 2nd MAJOR RD: CALL TO COL: DA VIES. Dungeness Informing him, Colo White has two hundred men at this place, and he has ninety-three at Charlottesville, for whom clothing is absolutely wanting &c.
Page 287
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 287 DAVID Ross TO . 1781. « Sir August 2nd The articles belonging to the Public, and seized by Genl: Wayne, Richmond are 16 pair of boots—237 pair men's shoes, 20 pieces of Oznaburgs, about 2000 yards." Wishes credit may be gotten in Philadelphia, for them, rather than they should be included "in that vast mass, the Continental debts." His Agent at South Quay informs him no loss had been sus- tained there: everything was removed to "Pitch" landing. * * * Salt provisions are "salutary at this season to use with the fresh meal"— .COL: JOSIAH PARKER TO COL: WM. DAVIES. August 3d "Dear Davies, I am favoured with yours of the 27th, and happy to hear Camp Col. that the last Assembly have divested themselves of many powers, which g Q' ne*r I am convinced they were not in bulk, able to execute themselves, and from your known abilities, I confess I am happy in thinking they will in your department receive every advantage that our impoverished state of finance will afford. My situation has not been enviable, but a most unhappy one. Called into the field by men whom I sincerely loved* (without arms, money, men or resources, but what my feeble interest could procure) added to my own personal safety, I was compelled to exert every faculty to get a small body together. people with menaces of a powerfull enemy in their neighborhood does not deserve little credit in embodying before their foes allmost: and as the best of principles induced them to take the field, so they nobly braved every difficulty in remaining with me. the arms I was obliged to procure in an invalid state. Mechanicks was to hire to put them in order, and without Bayonets. I was obliged to act. horse- men was to equip & I must find materials to make the Swords & influ- ence Smiths to do the work. Neither Powder, Ball or Cartridge paper was found mo, but by force of arms was compelled to seize it where it could be found: & as to provision, I supply'd my men on the same terms— tho' to the everlasting credit of Isle of Wight Cty, which has served the Troops since Leslies invasion, not a man has murmered, notwithstanding they have ncver received a Shilling, even of nominal money. About 12 have taken up arms & refuge with the Enemy from Nancemond, & none of Isle of Wight. They are now turning out to a man required, and we have no arms to put into their hands—About seventy which was left at the shop to be repaired, was destroyed by Lord Cornwallis. they were ordered to be removed, but the timidity of my C. of Military Stores got the better of his duty & he left them. My stock of powder is not *The Governor and Marquis. \
Page 288
288 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPEES. 1781. August 3d exhausted, but that of lead, paper & flints is, so that I cannot now mus- ter ten rounds. I have remained till the danger here, seems dispelled, and am now determined to go to France, in and with some vessels of mine from North Carolina, which will sail in six weeks. Can I be hon- ored with any business that may render service to my Country, or profit to myself? I shall visit Holland before I return—My losses has been considerable, and my being out of the military line, and only thought of in times of extremity, convinces me that I have no further business in the Field. for which reason I am determined to visit Europe,—if I arrive safe there, my property will enable me to live in a manner that will wash of the late toilsome years I have spent in the service of my Country, & I then can solace myself with the happy Idea of having done my duty, unenvied and unabused. previous to my departure, a drop or two of blood must be spilled. the British Fleet has sailed no doubt, but Baltimore & Philadelphia is their object, as they carried Flat Boats with them, and about 3000 men, includg. Simeoe's Corps. I have no more paper, but am affecy. yours" August 3d New Kent Co. RICHD C. GRAVES TO COL: DAVIES. Has received the order for collecting horses &c—has recovered thirty— Many more are secreted by the people, but he means to find them; and desires to know how to proceed against those who will not deliver them up—Has rec'd application from the wounded Officers at Cumberland for several horses, saddles and bridles, who have Orders from the Marquis on the Q. Master Genl: for them, but he declined to deliver any with- out the Order of the Executive or Capt: Young. Requests instructions as to what he shall do in this matter. August 3d VANSWEARINOEN CT: LiEUT: TO Gov: NELSON. Berkeley Co. The Orders to assist the Commissioner of the County in forwarding flour to the Army were duly received; and he found on hand, about "Twenty Ton of Flour in the County"—Mr. McAlister, former Coramr had proceeded to transport this flour to Alexandria as ordered, but the wagons he had employed at his own cost, had been impressed into the Army, he superceded by another officer, and so the business stopped. Mr. McAlister however assures him wagons may Be gotten to deliver the flour, provided any assurance is given, that they will be paid for, and will be free from Impressment.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 289
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 289 COL: DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR. 1781. 11 Sir August 3d The Executive passed a resolution for apprehending and appro- War Office priating of 'strays, and authorized me to attend to the execution. I directed the Commissioners of provision, who were best acquainted with the public cattle, to enforce the order—In some places from the improper characters employed by Brown, there have been abuses. But, Sir, I find this morning, to my surprise, that some of the Quar- ter Masters of the Army have exorcised the privilege of taking up 'strays, particularly horses, and pretend to have your Excellency's authority for it. As I think the measure attended with great inconvenience to the inhabitants, who will be deprived of an opportunity of proving their property, and as the State, at all events will not have credit for them, I think it my duty to submit to your Excellency, whether it will not be proper for all such horses to be forthwith delivered to the State quarter master General, that the owners may get them again, or that the Con- tinental quarter masters should pass proper receipts for them, Should they be wanting for the use of the Army. I have the honor to be, your Excellency's most hble Servt." MAJ: NELSON* TO THE GOVERNOR. August 3d "DrSir, The Bearer Mr. Tinsley, having served as a Volunteer Horse- Horn Quar- man, Since this invasion, & having acquired a Fondness for the service, ter is desirous of a Commission; he is well recommended by Genl: Muhlen- burg, & others—I must therefore request that you will be pleased to give him a Cornet's Commission, with Instructions to join my corps with- out Loss of Time, as we are in want of Officers. Capt: Armand has just got down from Winchester with the remainder of my men: they are tolerably mounted & clothed, tho' destitute of every Kind of Arms, a number of which are still in the hands of Volun- teers, & I may venture to say, they would be of as much service, could they be collected & put into the hands of these men, who are enlisted for the war; & I am sure there will soon be a necessity to arm every Dragoon, if as we hear, the Enemy have landed in Gloster. I have tho honor to be Dr Sir Your obedt, hble Servt." * Handseme impression of Seal, in wax. 87
Page 290
290 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Henry Delong writes to the Governor, that Richard Meanly a good August 3d gun-smith has been, by the Co. Court Martial, excused from a "tower of Mecklen- Duty in the Militia to Southward," provided he would set about making burg Co. gUDs for tne public—This was determined upon on account of the defenceless state of the Inhabitants—He has furnished him with "one or two hundred weight of Iron and some steel" to begin with—It is proposed to dispose of the arms he makes to the people of the County: but will work entirely for the Country if needed—He has a British deserter, a gun-smith, working with him. August 4th LIEUT BIDDOLPH, So. CAROLINA DRAGOONS, TO Gov: NELSON. "May it please your Excellency" Richmond An unfortunate officer, late of South Carolina Dragoons raised by the said State, who not only lost all his Estate real & personal, in Georgia was taken prisoner about a month before the Surrender of Charlestown; when his Commission, by the wantonness of some Highlanders of the 71st regiment, was taken from him & by them tore to peices, addresses himself to your Excellency, praying for releif in his unhappy circumstances, intending for Philadel- phia to state his case to the Honble the Congress: as also either to get a commission to raise volunteers to return to the Southward, or try his Luck in the navy, prays likewise, Your Excell'y will be pleased to grant him a Pass for that purpose, and such other. releif, as in his poor circum- stances, Your Excelly's great wisdom shall seem meet to alleviate his Distress; he being in pennury, a Stranger to the Country, weak in Body by the sufferings of fifteen months close confinement. And your Excelly's Petitioner as in Duty bound shall ever pray. August 4th Capt: E. Head applies to Col: Davies for a warrant for Twenty two thousand dollars, with which to recruit twenty two men for the war to fill up his Troop: that sum being the amount necessary for this pur- pose—Also for a warrant to pay off both officers and men of Major Nel- son's corps, who have not received any pay for fourteen months. August 4th CAPT: D. KAGSDALE TO Gov: NELSON. Carter's Upon his arrival ho finds much to his suprise, ten boats ready for use, and eight more nearly completed, but has no means of transporting night them. He has "waited on Mr. Claiborne who lies very ill in this neigh- borhood," and informed him he was expected to furnish the carriages for the boats; and that the Marquis is very urgent in his instructions for
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 291
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 291 them—Major Claiborn not having any prepared, he has sent the boats 1781. by water down to Westhaim, which saves forty miles of bad land car- August 4th riage. They will be at Westham "by 12-o-clock a Monday," and the army quarter master should be called upon at once to furnish transpor- tation for them to the Army, until Major Claiborne can have the proper carriages constructed—The Marquis has been informed of the difficulties in the way, and that the boats will reach him as soon as practicable. DAVID Ross TO COL: DAVIES. August 4th Mr. Crew waits upon him for orders to receive and dispose of the Richmond grain &c collected in Northampton & Accomac, and the money to be laid out in Salt for the State, now so much needed—He has instructions to purchase all he can, and to adopt the most vigorous measures to run it across the Bay. • DAVID Ross TO COL: DAVIES. August 4th He is surprised at the discontent exhibited by the Officers returned Richmond from captivity at Charleston in regard to the "remittance now making for the purpose of discharging their debts. Continues, "Although I consider the duty of my department as dis- tinct from the Military Line, yet sentiments founded upon a sincere regard for the virtues of so respectable a body of men, who have Braved every danger and difficulty in defence of their Country has inspired me with a desire of serving them when it was in my power. When our Officers & Soldiers were in captivity at Charlestown, I was at much pains to foward Tobacco for their support, and it was accordingly pre- pared. Governor Jefferson informed mo that Passports could not be obtained from Genl: Phillips, and thus the matter rested untillLd: Corn- wallis came' to this State. The application for passports was again renew'd and granted, for 400 hhds Tobacco. An Exchange of Prisoners took place, still it was said to be necessary to pay off both the publick & private debts. I have charterd vessels to carry this Tobacco—I have informed the Executive of it—Genl: Scott and Colo. Heath have been also made acquainted with it, & requested to give me proper information how it was to be appropriated when it arrived at Charlestown, that my Agent might know how to act—here my duty & interference ends in this trans- action—So far from having a wish to injure or offend any one of them I was well pleased to have it .in my power to promote a measure, which I tho't would reflect honour upon the Country, & credit to the troops, by a punctual discharge of debts contracted in the time of distress with an
Page 292
292 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. enemy—this is my idea of the matter & I flatter myself that you'll do August 4th me justice shuld any of them be mistaken in the part I act upon this occasion." August 4th COL: CHAS: DABNEY TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Ooochland He is collecting the remnant of the State Regiment, and the six- months' men, and will send them with Officers to Petersburg, Fred- ericksburg and Prince Edward Co House—He has "enquired of Roberts the Tavern Keeper at this place, after the Pipe of Wine left in his care" who informs him he has saved about ten gallons; the remainder having been taken by the Enemy. He has sent Orders to all Officers belonging to the State Regiment to repair to his head-quarters at once. August 4th SAMUEL DYER TO COL: DAVIES. Albemarle He has collected the Stores left near Albemarle Old Ct House, and Barracks thoso that were at Staunton. Three Expresses have been sent to Bed- ford to have them brought over but on account of the incursions of the enemy, he supposes, has heard nothing from them. The medicines shall be all sent to Dr. Pope as soon as they are gotten together—He will attend closely to his duties as long as he remains at the Post, but this cannot be long, in as much as his pay (owing to the rapid depre- ciation) does not support him, altho' he lives in the most frugal manner. August 4th ROBT. FORSYTH, DBF: COM: GENL: &o. TO COL: WM. DAVIES, VA. "Dear Sir, High Hills of I am favoured with your Letter of the 26th June, which did Santee not reacn Camp until two days ago. I am extremely sorry that the Business of my Office at present is such, as to prevent my answering it so particularly as I wished; however every thing 1 can, shall be com- municated now, and the Return you wish shall be transmitted, the moment I have time to make it out. Inclosed, you have the late adopted System of the Commissaries Department,* which is by no means suited to the operations of this Army: for instead of subsisting by the deliveries of the State Agents, I have to feed it by purchases from the Inhabitants; and with Respect to Bread, my Assistants have generally been obliged to reap & thrash the Wheat, and always to superintend the Mills, where the Grain has been sent, in order to get it manufactured. * Not found.
Page 293
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 293 I think with you, that it is of real importance to the State of Vir- 1781. ginia, as well as some others, to have full credit for the supplies they August 4th furnish; but I think also, that it will be a very difficult piece of Busi- ness to effect, for the stupidity of your Commissary, and Commissioners, their total want of method, and great inattention, together with the number of Continental Commissaries, acting contrary to a direct Resolve of Congress, will put it out of the power of any person to do the Conti- nent & State justice. Mr. Robinson does not make Returns to me, of what he receives from the State Commissary or Commissioners, nor am I authorized to call on him for such. If ho is regularly appointed, I should imagine his Receipt is a very sufficient Voucher, to be produced on a general settlement in my Office, or, whenever the State may render an acct: of the deliveries to the Continent. Mr. Brown ought to pay particular attention to the Receipts he and his Commissioners take for the Provisions they may deliver Issuing Com- missaries, and those ought, monthly to be delivered Mr. Robinson, and a general Receipt for the whole taken. If this is' not done, the Commis- sioners will be liable to many Errors; and may deliver their supplies to Tom, Dick & Harry, who five months afterwards may not be known. By Mr. Brown's delivering in the detached vouchers monthly, he will not only get rid of a very troublesome number of papers, which will expedite a future settlement, but will put it in Mr. Robinson's power to check the Accounts of his Assistants. As early as last February, I pointed out the proper mode of delivery to Mr. Brown by Letter, & begged his attention thereto: however to that, and every other Letter wrote him on public Business, I have never been favoured with an answer. Militia, acting with Continental Troops draw, or ought to draw from the Continental Commissaries; but in their counties, and from thence, to join the Army, and on their Return Home, they should be furnished by the County Commissioners, or Assistant State Commissaries. How these supplies are to be settled with the Continent, I know not; for I have seen no Resolutions of Congress on the Subject. The inclosed Resolutions* will point out to you how far I am con- nected with the Quarter Master's Department. You will find that the Assistants or Store-keepers of that Department are subject to my direc- tions so far as respects provisions &c; and from these people I am fur- nished monthly, or ought to be, with Returns, which point out the specific supplies delivered within the Month, at the Several Posts—By a Resolution of Congress, annexed to the Quarter Master's System, there are to be no Issuing Posts established at the expense of the United States, except immediately with the Army, or where Troops are sta- tioned. All the temporary Issues on the line of Communication; to Waggoncrs, Marching Troops &c are to be made by the Store-keepers appointed by the Quarter Masters, who are duly instructed to account * Not found.
Page 294
294 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. for the Same: indeed all deliveries to the Continental Commissary ought August 4th to go through their hands, because they make me Returns, and the Com- missaries do not. This matter would have been made easy, if the Honble the Congress had thought it prudent to allow me an Assistant for each State—I then could have had one with the Marquiss' Army, who would have attended particularly to the State supplies, all of which would have gone through his Hands to the Issuing Commissary. My Friend, you cannot possibly expect that any of the Small quantity of Spirits 'twixt this Army & Virginia can be Spared to the Marquiss' Army. Mr. Brown has delivered none of the Seventy thousand Gal- lons required by the Congress: for all the Spirits at Peytonsburg & New Glasgow I had sent from Fredericksburg last February & March—I made no doubt the Marquiss' Army was fully supplied with Rum, by Virginia & Maryland, and nothing but the want of Transportation pre- vented my demanding Forty thousand Gallons for this Army. When 1 agreed to act under the inclosed System, I had no Idea that my Con- stant attendance in the Southern Camp would have been necessary. My wish was to be in the public Service, but confined to the State of Virginia, where I could be near my Family, however, I find my atten- tion so necessary with this Army at present, that I cannot possibly get to that State, where I should be happy to lend you my every assistance. I am Dear Sir, with Esteem Your obedient humble Servant." August 4th GENL: GEO: ROGERS CLARKE TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. "Sir, Weelin I make no doubt but it was alarm to you that I had not left this Country. Whoever undertakes to Raise an Army in this Quarter will find himself disappointed Except the laws was of greater force, and not depending on the wills of the populace. This Country call aloud for an Expedition, wishing me to put it in Execution, but so strangely Infatu- ated that all the methods I have been able to pursue will not draw them into the field. we have made draughts to no purpose. Governor Reed have also wrote to them, but to no Effect. From the time I found I was to be disappointed in the troops ordered by Government, began to sus- pect the want of men, which is now the- case when every thing else is prepard— I could not get Colo. Gibsons Regiment, otherway I should have been gone long since, but had to make up the deficiency by Volunteers, but finding that no arguments are sufficient, I determined to Quit them leav- ing no stone unturn'd, by which they might hereafter Excuse themselves. To save the garrison of Pittsburg from being Evacuated, I have been obliged to spare them a considerable quantity of flower, but yet have Enough to do something cleaver had I men. 1 have Relinquished my
Page 295
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 295 Expectation relative to the plans heretofore laid, and shall drop down 1781. the River with what men I have amounting to about Four Hundred, August 4th consisting of Crockett's Regt., Craig's Artillery, Volunteers & ca. If I find a prospect of Compleating my forces in any other Country I shall do it, and make my Strokes according to circumstances—If I find it out of my power to do anything of Importance, I shall dispose of the Pub- lick Stores to the greatest advantage, and Quit all further thoughts of Enterprise in this Quarter. I do not yet condemn myself for undertaking the expedition against Detroit. I yet think had I ncar the number of men first proposed, should have carried it. I may yet make some stroke among the Indians before the close of the Campaign—but at present Realy to be doubted. I have been at so much pains to Enable us to prosecute the first plan, that the Disappointment is doubly mortifying to me, and I feel for the dreadful consequences that will Ensue throughout the frontier if nothing is done. This Country already begin to suspect it & to Envite me to Execute some plans of their own, but I shall no longer trust them. I shall hereafter transmit to your Excellency copies of all the publick Letters sent &c, Received Respecting the Expedition, by which you will see the very great pains that have been taken with the Inhabitants of this Country to little purpose. The unsettled state of the Government is very hurtfull to publick measures among them. I have spared to Colo: Harrison £126581..17s. to enable him to go on with his business, which ho is to settle, with the auditors. be pleased to order me credit for it on their books—I think Col: Harrison has done himself Honour in conducting his business. I have the Honour to be your Obedt and very Humbl Servt—" SURGEON THOS: TUD'R: TUCKER, TO Gov: NELSON. August 6th Having just received information that the Enemy had "the day before Yesterday" sent a Flag into 'VVilliamsburg requiring the sick to be immediately removed, he thinks it necessary he should return with- out delay to the Marquis to get his instructions accordingly—As soon as this affair will allow, he will wait upon his Excellency. "to request that assistance to our suffering People" which his humanity may dic- tate. CAPT: DREWRY RAGESDALE TO COL: DA VIES. August 6th In regard to the boats intended for the Marquis, two of which he has Carter's sent to Westham—He does not like the plan upon which they are made: Ferry they will not carry horses across the Rivers; and the Seats are so arranged that it will be difficult for the men to row—As ten more are to be built, he recommends this defect be looked into.
Page 296
296 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. THOS: HAMILTON D. Q. MR. TO COL: DAVIES. August 6th Staunton Forwarding a Return of the "Specific grain received at Richmond by Mr. Stephen Southall late Quarter Master, to the 24th April last. From this date his transactions begin, and he sends a return of his receipts both at Richmond and Staunton. Has never received an article of clothing for the Army—adds ''The people who trades to ye North'rd from here, destroys the credit of our paper curr'y, as they will not part with hardly anything but for specie." August 6th TIM: PICKERING Q. MAST: GENL: TO MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE. Camp at The Superintendant of Finance has called upon him for returns of i ips urg suppiieS furnished the U. S. Quarter Masters Dept: by the several States, pursuant to the requisitions of Congress of Feby: 25th 1780. This refers exclusively to Forage; but by the requisitions of "the Committee of Congress last Campaign" horses & wagons and forage had been gotten, and from other States—He requests to be furnished with returns accordingly, taking care to keep separate the forage and other articles—They are to be laid before the Superintendant. August 6th COL: JAMES INNES TO "Sm JOHN PEYTON, BART: .at Camp Whiting's Mill." "Dr. Sir, Nominy I expected to have cross'd last night, but was prevented by the nrilerfr'om J'ecei?* of a letter from the Marquis: I have however sent off an express Brick House urging the necessity of reinforcing the Gloster Militia with the men under my command immediately, and expect either to hear from or see him very shortly, as I imagine he may possibly be at New Kent Court house this eveng: You will please to despatch an express giving me the fullest accts. you possess of the enemy's depredations and manoeuvres in Gloster, that I may be enabled to transmit them immediately to the Marquis. It is sometimes absolutely necessary and politic to make use of small deception and finesse, you may therefore circulate in Gloster, that the Marquis has cross'd 5000 men over at Ruflfin's Ferry to sustain your lit- tle armament and annoy the enemy; that he is marching down on this side in person, with 8000 men, and that he will be as far advanced as New Kent Court house this eveng: Keep your light parties continually on the enemy's lines; you will by that means curtail their limits, and blind them to our advantage. If you should want to write to the Marquis, by sending your letter to me, I shall be able to transmit it to him in the most expeditious manner. I am Sir, with great Esteem Yrs: Ac.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 297
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 297 COL: RICB'D T. MORRIS TO Gov: NELSON. 1781. August 6th He was from home very sick, when his Excellency's letter requiring a Charlottes- settlement of the accounts of the Commissioners of the Provision Law, came—He has always supposed these officers were to come to his house and arrange their accts:—but he has lately been to Fredericksburg and Alexandria to settle the accts: of the agents of the Specific tax and endeavored to obtain a settlement from all the Commissioners in the Coun- ties contiguous to his rout, but owing to the conflicting Orders removing some officers and appointing others; to the confusion growing out of the removal of stores from point to point, and the remote distances at which many of the Commissioners live from each other, he had not beon able to obtain the required returns. Suggests that the Governor issue an Order requiring all the Commissioners in each County to convene at some point, to make their reports; and the agents of the Specific tax to do likewise—He will attend and require a settlement, but unless this be done, it is needless to make further efforts to this end. Having been informed there would be a vacancy in the Auditor's Office by the resignation of Mr. Archer, he became a candidate for the place during the Session of the Assembly; but no election having been made, and should Mr. Archer still determine not to serve, he begs to be considered an applicant to the Executive, who he is told will make the appointment in that contingency. COL: CHRISTIAN FEBIGER TO COL: DA VIES. August 6th He has no officer capable of discharging the duties of Paymaster, but Cumberland expects one every moment—His first object is to furnish "Ragsdalo Old 0. H. with a good Company" which he can do, if Clothing can be gotten. The next object is to recruit the ninety men needed for Call. He has made return of what tools are necessary to begin Barracks "to Clayburn," bnt he says there are none in his Department, which seems to be much out of order. Asks where the different "Rendezvous" are—thinks all the counties South of James River, as well as Amherst, Albemarle, Louisa, Goochland Hanover & Henrico should send their men to his Post—Begs that Ragsdale's Company may be provided with clothing for the coming winter—He will have plenty of Beef, Bread, and forage, "but no Spirits of any kind"—Asks if there is not a Surgeon for the Post. 38
Page 298
298 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. BASSETT STITH, A. PAYMASTER GENL: TO Gov: NELSON. August 7th Richmond Asking that the sum of "Two Hundred & Fifty Seven Thousand Pounds" be placed in his hands, to meet the demand of Warrants drawn by The Honble Maj: Genl: Marquiss de la Fayette on him within a few days past; he having no money on hand for the payment thereof: August 7th GOODWIN WILSON, SURGN GENL: HOSPITAL, TO COLO WM. DAVIES. "Sir, Hanover I arrived here this evening with the wounded from Cumberland, and an addition of forty sick—I find it impossible. on many accounts to proceed with them to the Court House, particularly that of accommo- dations. I have therefore, with the Marquiss' approbation fixed the Hospital here. The wounded have been, and still are destitute of every article of nourishment, except common Rations. I must therefore beg you will interest yourself in having the warrant I left in your hands, immediately complied with, in order to enable mo to provide for their Situation. Monsieur Captain, one of the Marquiss' Aids, waits on you and the Executive (by his particular desire) for that purpose, as well as to pro- cure a "Flag" to transport the wounded from James Town to Rich- mond. They are suffering at this time, and cannot be releived in any other manner. A Surgeon from this place shall attend the Flag, if you will please to inforrtl me when it will be ready. Monsieur Captain will receive your answer and transmit it to me. I am Sir, Respectfully, Yr: hble Servant &c." August 7th DR. THOMAS WALKER TO GOVR. NELSON. "Sir, Castlo Hill* Your Favor covering the Resolution of Assembly, & appointment of Commissioner to settle & liquidate all accts. of Disbursements & Claims in the Western parts of this State, bearing date July the 20th, I received: but not till ten or twelve days after its date. It gives me real concern, that my age & Infirmities render me in my own opinion, unable to perform this Service, when probably my knowledge of the Situations of the different posts, the navigation &c might have been use- ful in the prosecution of this Business. It may by some, be urged, that my last Trip to the Western Country was attended with more hardships than this probably would be: in answer I say, that it would not. had 'Subsequently the residence of the Bon. Wm. C. Rives, in Albemarle.
Page 299
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 299 the Business • terminated as I had reason to expect, & I am now more than two years older than when I sat out on that Trip—Those who have experienced it, will acknowledge that two years after a man is advanced considerably beyond his grand climacteric must make great diference, as well in his mental as bodily abilities— This being my Situation, Your Excellency, will, I am sure, not take it amiss in me, to mention Colo. Daniel Smyth of Washington County, as my Successor: he is a stranger to you & most of Your Honorable Board, but not to me. he lived with me five years, was my Colleague as Com- missioner on the Carolina Line, understands Accts: well, is honest & diligent: acquainted with the situation of the different Stations, & the navigation of that part of the Country, as well as, Your Excellency's Most obliged humle. Servant." 1781. August 7th COLO. JOHN PAGE TO GOVR. NELSON at Richmond. "Dear Sir, August 7th I wrote you about a week past, a Letter in Answer to yours Camp near & made an apology for being so tardy; adding some reflections of my own on the situation of our Country, which you had induced me to do, by kindly desiring to know what I would wish to have done. I write now in the absence of Col: Peyton, who is gone down to Kingston, & who I believe has omitted, through hurry of business, to give you an Account of the operations of the Enemy in our Quarter & of the Steps we have taken to counteract their Designs—Before this, you must be as well informed of the Strength & Position of the Enemy, when we were obliged to retreat from Gloster Court House, as ene one, & there- fore I shall only observe that by some unknown cause, your Orders to the County Lieut, to embody a fourth Part of the Militia did not reach him till 7 days after the date of it, when I found it by an accident, opened it & sent it on by Express; that by some unlucky circumstance, the Orders issued by the Field Officers for embodying the whole of the militia, on the appearance of the Enemy's Fleet in York River, was not executed as well as could have been wished, that therefore, after the Enemy had landed about 700 of their Troops at Gloucester Town, & we had waited in vain, til 10-o-clock at night for Reinforcements of militia, we retreated with 102 men, exclusive of Officers, chiefly the militia of Ware & Petsworth, Keeping the Road which leads to King & Queen, hoping to meet Detachmts of militia from that County on which we had called for assistance. We took with us all the arms, ammunition & Pro- vision we had at the Court House, & the Field piece, which we had mounted whilst the Enemy were in Willmsburg—We retreated as far as Duvalls, before we halted, where we rested about an hour & then proceeded on to the Hill on the King & Queen side of Whiting's Mill, where we Hubard's
Page 300
300 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. encamped & determined to wait for Reinforcements, taking every Pre- August 7th caution to guard against a Surprise.—here we were joined by Capt: Eddins & that Part of the Small party of Artillerists & militia who had stuck by him on his Retreat from his Post at Gloster Town—In Justice to him, I must observe that he appears to have acted with Spirit, vigi- lance & activity—he maintained his Post with an old 12-lber, 'till the Enemy were near the shore in 10 of their flat-Bottomed Boats, he hav- ing previously removed the 2 french 18-lbers, 1. in a Boat up the River, the other on a carry-log into the County where I believe it is still safe. Colo. Peyton, as soon as it was certain that the Enemy's ships were standing into York, ordered all the horses below the Court House to be removed & brought to his Compy, but we were able to get but few out of the way of the Enemy, had they pressed on. However, as soon as we were joined by a Part of the Kingston Militia, we were enabled to remove many from that Parish & Ware, & by sending down a small Party of light Infantry & of Dixon's Horse, the day after we retreated, the Enemy, who appear cautious, have been prevented from collecting many horses, or from foraging above Mr. Whitings Quarters, except on the morning before they got down, when they had been as far as Mr. Burwell's Church-Quarter, from whence, & Colo Lewis' adjoining it, they drove off all the Stock and took off a few negroes—Notwithstanding the Enemy have not been 3 miles above Gloster Town, except on the Morning after their landing, which was on the. 1st Inst: those unhappy, deluded People are continually going over to them, to the ruin of many of us, & the Enemy continue their diabolical Practice, I am just informed, of sending out amongst us Persons infected with the Small Pox—As soon as it was in our Power, we began to remove the public Grain & the records of the County. We have not been able to spare men to drive off stocks of Cattle, but as several Gents: have set the example, I hope many will be removed, unless the Enemy should come out in force—You know Sir, how our County is intersected by water Courses, navigable by their flat bottomed Boats, which enabled them to have got on our Flanks & Rear in a single night, had we remained at the Court House—We therefore thought it imprudent & impolitic to risk the loss of the Stores & of the precious few who had nobly assembled in good Time, & who showed a spirit that would have done honour to the most virtuous citizens of the ancient Commonwealths—their readi- ness to stay & oppose the Enemy or to march out of their County, leaving their wives, their children & their all behind them, at the mercy of their cruel & revengeful Enemy, despising every thing in comparison of their country, & executing every order with cheerfulness & alacrity, showed that they were well worth our endeavours to preserve them for some more favorable opportunity of gratifying their Desire of serving their Country more effectually than they could at that time. I must however remark in Justice to that Part of the Militia who did not join
Page 301
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 301 UB 'till a Day or two after our Retreat, that they showed a noble 1781. undaunted Spirit, and do assure you, that it has been proposed by sev- August 7th oral of those Officers and their Men, to go down & oppose the Enemy at all Events; others declare if the Country will not support them, they will go down & sacrifice themselves in Defence of their County. If there bo a County in Virginia, worthy of the Assistance of the State, & which can be an object of the Enemy, I venture without vanity or Partiality to say, it is Gloster. But I was much distressed last night to find that after we had been promised assistance from the Marquiss, & Col: Innes had intended to have joined us with 400 men, that we are put off with a Request to amuse the People with a finesse. I enclose you the Colos Letter. Col: Bay top who received it whilst Colo Peyton & myself ware out of Camp, was willing to comply with the Requisitions, & therefore read the tantalizing clause—but judge, Sir, what will be tho People's sentiments, when they shall, as they soon must, discover that it was all a Delusion! I wish for my part, never to deceive them: if they desire that we shall reproach our Country by making a Sacrifice of ourselves, I shall blush not to follow their example, & join them in reviving the ancient & true Spirit of Patriotism. I should have observed that about 150 Militia of King & Queen County embodyed the day before yesterday, & encamped within a Mile of us, but as many of them are without Arms, their Colo proposes to discharge them. I would wish however that they should not be discharged untill a sufficient number of our Militia come in to take off all our spare Arms; because should tho Enemy come out before this Event may happen, we could furnish the King & Queen Troops with those Arms—We yesterday Evening, moved down to a more healthy situation, about a mile below our former Encampment, with Huba'rd's Mill in Front. We have about 50 Light Infantry & about 10 Horsemen on the Enemy's lines, with post Riders Stationed every 3 miles up on the Road. But every precaution will avail us little, if the Enemy seriously mean to attack us, as we have but few Bayonets & Cartouch Boxes, & have not Six Rounds of Car- tridges & most of them much injured—It is said that a considerable Part of the Encmy's Ships & Vessels are gone down into the Bay as if to Portsmouth, possibly for more Troops, and it is said they have not more than 1500 at York & Gloster inclusively. I am, dr Sir, with great Respt: & Esteem yrs." WM. McCRAW, DZP: Q. MASTER, TO Gov: NELSON. August 7th He has a number of men in the Public Service at this Post, wagoners, Peytonsburg Express Riders, Canteen makers &c, for whom he has promised to procure credit "for a Tower of duty" provided they will work faithfully; other- wise it would be impossible to carry on the business of his Department.
Page 302
302 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. The Court Martial of Pittsylvania County threaten to declare these men August 7th liable to six months service in the Army, which is destructive to his business. He therefore begs for some protection in this matter, as it is impossible to engage men to work for the Government, unless they are exempt from field service—The Southern Army is seriously suffering for horse shoes & canteens, which he cannot supply if deprived of the work of these men. • Wagons cannot be obtained, except by promising the owners that the drivers and team shall be exempt from impressment: hence he has not been able to foward/the Commissary stores to the Southward, especially as the Commissioners under the Provision Law have never furnished him with a Brigaded wagon,—although called urgently upon to do so. Begs, Some mode be adopted, by which he may be supplied with forage, of which he is in great need. August 8th CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: DA VIES. Richmond Asking for a guard from Col: Dabney's command to take charge of the Boats at Westham; which he suggests should at once be removed up to Woodson's Ferry near Goochland Court House for security. August 8th MAJOR RICHD. CALL, TO COL: DAVIES. "Sir. Mr.Walker's I presented your order to Capt Tibbs (Capt: Peyton being out of Charlottes°"' the way)—he cannot furnish the Cloaths immediately—50 hands will ville stop working after to-day, for want of thread and buttons—When these are furnished he can turn off 200 Suits in 14 days"—The shirts cannot be made for want of money. The Conductor of Mil: Stores has just returned from Leesburg without having found any accoutrements there, and could hear nothing of them. Only thirty-four sets have been col- lected, & they out of repair, "stripped of cruppers & straps &c by the volunteers who used them"—Col: White has only twenty sets in his Regiment, so that unless arms and accoutrements are supplied from Richmond, the men and horses will be entirely useless to the State. * * * * * He will leave that place in a day or two with his command for Manakin Town, which the "Baron" has informed him is the intended point of Rendezvous for the Cavalry. August8th BERRYMAN GREEN, A. D. QUARTER MASTER TO COL: DAVIES. Richmond He arrived only the night before, and has occupied Majr. Claiborne's old office, but is not prepared for business—will make every effort to
Page 303
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPEKS. 303 foward the "Boat business," but as yet there is not a District Quarter 1781. Master here, nor a single article of Stores—Major Claiborne has been August 8th much deceived in regard to the furnishing the carriages, and has ordered Capt: Drew at Carter's "Ferry" to dismount the bodies of five or Six Continental Wagons" and to send them down to transport the Boats, together with their teams. He has sent the like instructions to Capt Hendricks at Alexandria, who has not made the carriages and no prospect of its being done—By this means he hopes to have i n a few days "eight or ten mounted & foward to the Army." As to the horses impressed, he is aware that many have been lost; but many have also been returned to their owners—Major Claiborne did not think himself justifiable, without authority from the Executive, in branding private horses impressed for a special service, and whore they were to be returncd as soon as the demand for them ceased—Had this been ordered, it would have saved much expence to the Continent, and less trouble to him. COL: J. BANISTER TO Gova NELSON. "Dear Sir, Agreeable to a letter from Mr. Davios, I have ordered out, & by every exertion, attempted to collect one fourth part of the Militia, but in vain, having only been able to assemble a Company of about seventy, instead of one hundred & fifty—With this Company I have attempted to apprehend the Delinquents, which ought at all events to be effected, as an Example in future—I never knew so great a change among men in my life, since the Encmy have been posted at Peters- burg—No doubt it is owing to their practices thro' the mediation of Tories—If you approve of my keeping this Company a few daies longer to enforce the orders I have given, you will please to signify it by return of the Bearer." * * * * * "The leaving the So. Side of Jas: River without Troops to make a defence against the incursions of the Enemy has produced worse effects than the ruin of individuals—" * * * * "There are not wanting Instances of great impropriety of political conduct here, and I wish to know what may be done with them. I have not seen any of the Laws. Your Excellency's mo: obed & mo: hble Servt." August 8th Dinwiddie Co. E. SIMPSON TO THE GOVERNOR. August 8th Praying for exemption from military duty certain artizans, employed Spotsylvania with him by Genl: Spotswood in making the necessary accoutrements &c for his Legions.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 304
304 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JOHN DORSICS TO Gov: NELSON. August 8th Richmond Applying for £54,000 in currency to enable him and John Evans, Isaac White and Daniel Jacobs, citizens of South Carolina landed at Jamestown from a Cartel vessel, to purchase horses, by which to return to their homos—This large sum is necessary on account of "the high prices to which horses have risen." August 8th COL: WM. DAVIES TO TUB EXECUTIVE. "Sir, War Office I have been conversing with Mr. Anderson, upon the Subject of a Corps of Artificers. We seem to agree in opinion that the following plan, or some thing similar may be proper. The prices are not exactly ascertained, as in some of the branches, Mr. Anderson does not recollect the old prices. 1. Captain—James Anderson. 1. Capt: Lieut:—@ 11. S. a day. 1. First Lieut: "10. S. a day. 1. Second Lieut:" 9. S."" 1 Third "8. S."" 12. Gunsmiths good @ 5. S. pr: day—according to their work. 6. Gunstockers "5. S.""" 24. Blacksmiths "4. S.""" 1. Striker "2. S.""" 7. Nailers "4. S.""" 12. Carpenters "4. S. 12. Sadlers & harness makers " 4. S."" « 10. Wheelwrights "4. S."" 24. Shoemakers "3. S. pr: day. 24. Taylors "3. S."" 132, in the total—There may be one or two more trades, not now thought of, which may be hereafter included. Mr. Anderson depends fpr a further allowance (in addition to his pres- ent pay) upon the advantages which in the course of a year the govern- ment finds to result from the Establishment. This circumstance is in our favour, and will I hope prove a stimulus to his exertions—The point of fork will be a good place for an interme- diate magazine; it is not as yet safe enough for any extensive design to be attempted att. We have therefore thought of fixing our Artificers between New London and the River, where provisions can be procured with more ease, and the stores readily sent down by water, besides the
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 305
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 305 advantages to be derived from the neighborhood of Mr. Ross' works. If 1781. the government approve, I will take immediate measures for the Execu- August 8th tion of the design." I have honor to be Your Excellency's mo: obt Servt. MAJOR ALEXD. DICK TO Gov: NELSON. August 8th He is ordered by Col: Dabney to this place of Rendezvous, and finds Frederic'sb'g a number of six months men unfit for any military duty, and who would be a disgrace to the Country. Genl: Weedon thinks if four of them are allowed to procure "a Soldier for the War" the regiments may be filled up. Concludes, "It is my wish to command men, with whom I could storm , Portsmouth if Ordered—I hope to march with the first Battalion by the first of next month, when if you will permit me to go on the South Side of James River, I think with Colo. Parker's assist- ance, I shall scour Princess Ann & Norfolk Counties & not allow them to put their noses out of Portsmouth." CAPT: HENRY YOTTNG TO COL: DAVIES. August 8th Enclosing Col: James account, with enquiry as to its payment—Capt: Richmond Roane desires him to inform Col: Davies "that the Enemy have not left a single eighteen pounder in the State "—Ho is about to have the carriages for the boats built. "At a Court martial held in Accomack August 8th 1781 for the Trial August 8th of The Rev: John Lyon, on a charge Exhibited against him by Collo. AccomacCo. John Mapp, setting forth" that the said John Lyon had given aid and comfort to the Enemy in the late Invasion, by serving them with pro- visions, giving intelligence and by voluntarily going on board a British Barge commanded by "a certain Robertson &c, and that he was an enemy to the Independence of the United States, &c, testimony was duly . taken upon said charges, by the Court, composed as follows Coll: John Cropper President. Coll: Wm. Parramore Capt: Robt. Coleburn Maj Henry Custis "Wm. Snead Capts: Wm. Polk "Zorobabel Rodgers "John Custis "Alex: Stokely Lieut: John Dix— Thos Burton, Ensign Thos; Lillarton, Ensign Benj: Peck" George Corbin Esquire, Judge Advocate. 39
Page 306
306 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. The Prisoner upon the testimony, was found guilty, and sentenced to August 8th five years imprisonment, at such place as the Governor should designate. Capt: Thos: Parker ordered to take charge of him until instructions from the Executive should be received &c. August 9th CAPT: THOMAS WARMAN SD VA. REGT: TO THE GOVERNOR. Richmond On the 17th July was commissioncd Lieut: in Col: Hugh Stephen- son's Regt: of .Riflemen, raised to serve three years; in November fol- lowing at the reduction of Fort Washington was taken prisoner and kept until 7th December 1780—During this time he was "Regularly arranged in the Virginia Line," but has never rec'd pay, clothing or any other perquisites to which officers are entitled to. In addition to this, when captured he lost his entire effects excepting the clothing on his back, including a considerable amount of specie; and has sacrificed his patrimony in the Service of his Country—Lieutenants Finney, Pendle- ton & Bedinger of the same command were captured at the same time have applied and received full relief for their losses—He therefore now begs to be allowed remuneration for his losses, having due regard to the depreciation of the currency, upon the same footing on which those Gentlemen were indulged &c. August 9th CAPT: ROBERT PORTERFIELD TO Gov: NELSON. Richmond Capt: Kendall of the Va. Line and himself have just arrived: are paroled prisoners from Charleston, entirely without money, and desire information as to how they can obtain relief. Capt: Porterfield continues "I beg leave to mention to your Excel- lency a debt of thirty Guineas, borrowed by my late brother Lt: Colo. Porterfield of Lord Rawden, which, as well as all other debts contracted by him, I have made myself answerable for. But in a particular man- ner to that Gentleman, whose great degree of humanity & Politeness to my Brothers and others, while ill, not only claims every exertion in my power to comply with my promise for tho payment of the above debt, But merits the Friendship of every good man." He therefore requests that Mr. Simons the mercht in Charleston who supplied the officers, be instructed "to pay that debt to his Lordship out of the Tobacco sent by the first "Flag." August9th COL: GEORGE SLAUGHTER TO Gov: NELSON, BY MAJOR QUIRK. Falls of Ohio After referring to the uncertainty of communication, by the miscar- riage and frequent interception of Letters, adds, "The situation of my little Corps at this place at present, is truely deplorable; destitute of
Page 307
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 307 clothing, victuals & money, the Commissaries have furnish'd them with 1781. little or no provisions these three months past, nor don't give them- August 9th selves the least concern about it, and unless unexpected & immediate supplies of clothing & provisions are obtain'd, I shall evacuate this Post— we are neglected in every respect—no dispatches from Government or Genl: Clark for such a leugth of time, that patience is almost at an end—in short Sir, the Service must be painful and disagreeable to any man of Sensibility," &c." MAJOR JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DA VIES. August 9th In regard to the "Horse Accoutrements, just arrived at Winchester: Head Quar- of which he has informed Col: White, by order of Genl: Weedon. p He had requested Capt: Bohannan to appoint some one at Westham Spring to receive the damaged arm a sent up from the army, from time to time, thence to be carried by water to Irvine's store, thus saving "the amaz- ing trouble of Waggonage"—"One King" at that place had sent back to the Army all these arms—It is therefore highly necessary that some person should be appointed to receive the arms at Westham for the reason above mentioned—The Marquis is very urgent to be furnished with as many arms as possible. Arm chests are very much needed, to prevent the damage done upon the discharge of Militia, by throwing their guns loose into Wagons— This however is "a Continental look-out"—Innes is not in camp, nor can we hear anything of him. E. ARCHER TO THE GOVERNOR. August 9th "Honorable Sir, The exposed situation of my family, together with the Richmond great distance I live from the Scat of Government, are reasons why I cannot, with justice to the publick, or convenience to myself, any longer continue to at the Board of Auditors. I therefore wish your Excellency to consider me as having now resigned my Appointment as a member thereof. I have the honor to be with much esteem &c." CAPT: D. RAGSDALE TO COL: DAVIES (Private). August 9th "Dear Colo., I am fully satisfied of the truth of your observation respect- Cumberland ing the confusion Prevailing among our Publick affairs, and the cause from whence it arises. This Evil I am afraid is creaping in the line of our Army, that is, that part which is employed in this State—You say only 4 Boats are to be Old C. H.
Page 308
308 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. sent down—This order came to hand too late, for Ten had been sent, and August 9th the other Eight would have set out in one hour after the rec't of yours, had not that Prevented it. Just as I had sot out from Richmond, Mr. Washington came after me with the Inclosed note,* w'ch I own to you surprised mo much. However as I conceived such employment out of the line of my Duty, I thought such a requisition could not be made by the Commg: Genl: without absolute necessity; and on that acct, I deter- mined to give every aid in my Power towards Expediting the Transpor- tation of the Boats &c." * * . * * "These Orders were directed to me, but as I was entirely Ignorant of the mode and manner of Impressing not having been Honoured with so agreeable an appointment before, I cut the Direction off & Intended directing it to some onc whoso mind had already been reconcil'd to the Distresses of his country, for instance one of the Quarter Masters—&c." I am w'th respect your De'r Friend." August 9th CAPT: A. BOHANNAN TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Dr. Colo., Fauquier I have this moment return'd from Leesburg—the stores that C- H. were there & at Noland's Ferry are now on their way to this place: it was with the greatest difficulty, that I cou'$ procure—waggons in the neighborhood of Leesburg for the Transportation of them; in short I cou'd not have done it, had I not promis'd to pay them when they arriv'd at this place & discharge them. it is useless to pretend to impress wag- gons in this part of the Country, as you will seldom see a waggon on any plantation but what either wants a wheel or Geer. the Inhabitants say they are willing to work for the public, provided they cou'd get paid for their Services. they are willing to take what the Q. M. Genl: allows, tho' it shu'd be less than they cou'd get from private persons." * * * * * * The Commanding Officer of the militia agrees to get wagons if the money can be had to pay the owners; he therefore sends an Express, with a request for "Fifteen or Twenty Thousand Pounds" which it will cost to remove the Stores—Desires some pay for himself, being without a shilling and not having received any money for eighteen months. August 9th REV: ARCHIBALD McRoBERTs TO COL: DAVIES. Providence, About the middle of the last month Col: Tarleton passed through Va- that part of tho Country, encamped at his house, and among other *Order from Lafayette Signed by G. A. Washington Aid de Camp, to obtain by impressment tho means of sending the Boats to the Army.
Page 309
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 309 things carried off five valuable negroes, and all his horses—He left in 1781. place of the latter some worn out animals, one of which has been August 9th claimed by the owner and carried away—He contends he has a right to retain these horses to save his crop and do the necessary farm work, but shall have them registered as estrays and await the conse- quences, in as much as he does not think the late Order of the Executive in Council is legal. He reveres the Laws of his Country but flatters himself these horses are as safe in his hands as in their owners—He has refused to deliver them to Capt: Morton, who has done his duty by applying for them, and who can satisfy his Excellency & the Council of the good standing and patriotism of the writer; and he hopes no censure will fall upon that officer—He would not have thus given him trouble, but finds Capt: Morton's Instructions are from him (Col: Davies) and he therefore addresses this letter to him. CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO COL: WM. DAVIES. August 10th Sends Return of Issues as required—Also of ready made clothing on Albemarle hand. Has made application to the County Lieutenants for the quota Barracks of clothing required by Act of Assembly, but has only received "a part from the Co. of Fauquier"—Regrets to find those officers so negligent of their duties—He has not as yet, been able to employ any "Artificers from the Country", notwithstanding he has ridden through several Counties and used every exertion for this purpose—The trademen beleiving "the enemy will soon leave the State, will not engage on acct. of an exemption from military duty" and say the pay and credit of the State is so uncertain that they will not work for it—Those discharged and those left still at work are clamorous for their pay, not having rec'd a shilling for work done, or as soldiers since they enlisted—Bogs for the means of paying them off, as they are seriously suffering—He has written Mr. D. Ross for materials for the Soldiers' clothing,'but has never had a line from him, and unless soon supplied the men will bo idle. The Articles most wanting, are coarse linnen, coarse thread & buttons, not a coat made having a button on it; Serge, light colored cloth for vests, breeches or over-alls—Shoe-makers tools, and linnen for shirts, which can be made in the neighborhood, the people constantly applying for work of this kind— Mr. Dyer has just informed him of the arrival at his Store of several hundred Bearskins from Peytonsburg, which may do for the Vests and over-alls—desires to know which are best for the soldiers "breeches or over-alls"—The wagon load of leather from Richmond just arrived, but he fears it will not make good boots, being badly dressed—He hears the Enemy has not yet left the State, and hopes timely notice may always be given of their approach so that he may remove his stores.
Page 310
310 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: BOURNE PRICE, COM: OF STORES—TO COL: DAVIES. August 10th New London Before he had removed any stores to Crow's Ferry, the order was countermanded by Major Pryor: everything therefore remains quiet and matters go on very well, except that the Laboratory which must stop for want of material—The Tinman's time is out, also that of Mr. Clarke the armorer. It will be impossible to keep the men, without money. He has lent to them until some one comes to give them their wages— Should the Militia march from that County, he shall issue to them all the arms he has fit for service. There are more than 500 on hand, most of which want stocks & locks. The guns and tools are branded U. S. Mr. Anderson has sent to him for all the Smiths Tools in his hands as State property, but some one who knows more of them than he, should attend with orders from Major Pryor or Colo Smith, as he has receipted to them for these articles. He cannot carry on "the Business" of the Post without money—The Credit of the State is so bad, that he cannot get the least thing done, without becoming personally responsible for the payment; they take their wagons to pieces, cut the gear, and ride the horses. and when called upon to ride express refuse—and to impress a horse is to bring "a fight on his hands." Begs for some clothing for a few Continental Soldiers, who have not drawn any for three years—It is discouraging to the men to hear that money is furnished at every other Post, but they get none. Aueust 10th GENL: EDWARD STEVENS TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, I received your very polite Letter of ye 1st Inst: In it you express your desire of having ye Resolve of ye Assembly respecting my being presented with a horse and Accoutrements, carried into Execution in a manner that would be most acceptable to me. Your Excellency's attention in this, has my warmest acknowledge- ments. At this time I have no horse in view. But to prevent you far- ther trouble, I will look out for one and inform yo of it. With every Sentiment of esteem and respect, I have the honour to be your Excellency's most obedient & very hum: Servt." August 10th CAPT: NATHAN REID TO COL: DAVIES. New London It will be very difficult to distinguish the State Stores from the Con- tinental, on account of the confusion attending their delivery at that place—The Smiths have marked all repared arms U. S. Mr. Price is in great trouble as to delivering the unmarked arms up to the State, lest they should belong to the Continental Service; but is separating them, and will have them boxed up, as fast as mended.
Page 311
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 311 The Six months men, he is ordered to receive, will all desert, as he has 1781. no men to guard them—He has receipted for one man twice, "who has August 10th cleared ten men, & is now clear himself." The Laboratory is doing very well, but must soon stop, unless sup- plied with cartridge paper. Grear is not always drunk, nor always sober, but has done tolerably well since he came here.—Continues "I realy expected when I heard of Tarlton's being at P. Edward C. House, that he intended to come as far as this place & I ashure you I never work'd more Tightly in all my life, than I did for about twenty four hours—We had but two or three waggons for most part of the time, and in that case had no other chance to save the Stores, but to hide them in different places Round the Town, which was done with a great deal of art and security, so that Mr. Tarlton, had he come, I dout he would have found many of them. The stores is all returned to this place without hardly any loss. The men in this County turn'd out, exceeding cleaverly, not less than five hundred were collected in two days after the news came, four hundred of which was tolerable well arm'd—Had Mr. Tarl- ton show'd himself at this place, I am satisfied from the closeness of the woods, & the vast Quantity of under growth, he must have suffer'd very considerably." I have just been informed that one hundred & ninety odd British Prisoners from the Southward will be in Town this Evening. Major Rose has charge of them." * * * I am Dr Colo With great regard &c. CAPT: WM. McCaAW TO COL: DAVIES. August 10th Complaining of the conduct of the people on account of the Kind of Peytonsburg wagons furnished—The teams are old, very poor and useless and most of the wagons utterly unfit for Army purposes, and generally useless. JOHN BROWNE TO COL: WM. DAVIES. August 10th "Sir, * * * * * "I take this opportunity to inform you that our salt provision has New Kent hitherto been useless to the Army, having at this time a large quantity of Bacon in the care of Colo. James Mason in a perishable condition and no possibility of getting it to camp. Mr. Ross' salt provision would be no doubt very acceptable at Camp, but elsewhere useless. The troops will starve in the course of a few days, & no waggons have yet come to hand—I have informed his Excellency the Gov'r, that I decline acting as Com'y any longer & request some person may be sent to take my place. I am Sir, your very Hble Servant."
Page 312
312 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. SAMUEL DYER TO COL: DAVIES. August 10th Barracks, Accounting for the stores in his possession—those from Bedford Albemarle arrivetl, and he has all collected except the canvas from Point of Fork. The cavalry accoutrements expected from Noland's Ferry have not come. Suggests the importance of being furnished with a sufficient number of wagons us Capt: Peyton is, to carry off his Stores in case of the Ene- my's approach, as they have not yet left the State. August 10th COL: JAMES CALLAWAY TO COL: DAVIES. New London He has discharged the militia, ordered to the South, in as much as those from the Adjacent Counties have been: but ordered them to hold themselves in readiness to march at a moment's warning. The wagon required has been delivered to the Dept: Q. Master in Amherst Capt: Chas: Russell, but all the clothing has not been received—Thanks him for the compliment paid to the militia of Bedford, and assures him if the Enemy ever make it necessary, they will entitle themselves to credit. The clothes collected are 85 shirts—44 over-alls—40 Hatts—82 pair Stockings—42 pr: Shoes—Due still 9 Shirts 3 pr: over-alls, 7. Hatts—12 pr: Stockings, 5 pr: Shoes. August 10th MBS. M. BYRD* TO . "Sir, Westover Mr. Southall waits on you, to inform you of my situation, with respect to four Horses now in my possession, & to take your directions respecting them— As I have intruded on your leisure, Sir, permit me to engage your attention a little longer. I am greatly injured; to you I beg leave to apply, for an opportunity of being redressed. this claim I surely have a right to make as a female, as the parent of eight children, as a virtuous citizen, as a friend to my Country, & as a person, who never violated the laws of her Country, either by mistake, or intentionally. No person with principles of honor, or any other virtue that can grace humane nature, will contradict my assertion. I am told that I have some enemys left, if I have, I know them not, nor am I known by them. no person who knows me can be my enemy, for I am at least an inoffensive per- son. I wish not ill to the meanest creature on earth. if I were con- vinced that your ear had been abused with respect to mo, I would imme- diately wait on you & convince you, that I am as inocent of the charges • Tin- tone and Style of this Letter induces the opinion, it was addressed to Oov: Nelson; although the Marquis de La Fayette was in command of the Army in the Field and still in this neighborhood.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 313
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 313 made against me, as you are yourself—I owe too much to my honor to 1781. betray my Country. No person breaths whose reputation is dearer to August 10th them than mine is to me. You have been so good Sir, as to assure me, it would give you the greatest pleasure to grant me a flag—I hope it is now convenient; I have lost 49 of my people, 3 fine Horses & two fine Ferry Boats, all of which Lord Cornwallis promised me should be returned me. Other people have had flags granted them; the Baron assured me I should have one, whenever the enemy were inclined to deliver me my people. I flatter myself you will excuse my being thus troublesome. I hear repeatedly of the death of my people, some who wished much to return; others are gone to New York—if I do not recover my people, my family are ruined, and this, worthy Sir, you have the power of preventing. Shall it be said, because I am a stranger in the Country, that I am not to have justice in any line. I have sent my Soldier, who had lost his life in the Service of my Country—I have paid my taxes & have not been Personally, or Virtually represented. My property is taken from me & I have no redress. I have the honor to be Sir, your most obedient humble Servant." COLO JOHN MONTGOMERY TO THE GOVERNOR op VIRGINIA. August 10th "Sir, I had the honor of addressing a Letter to Govr Jefferson, dated Falls of Ohio from New Orleans January 8th 1781, to which I beg leave to refer you: Since when, after a dangerous & disagreeable voyage up the Mississippi, I arrived at Fort Jefferson on the 1st of May last, when I found the Troops in a very low and Starving Condition, nor was there any goods or any Property wherewith to purchase. From the Illinois nothing could be expected, the credit of the State being long since lost them & no supplies coming from this place, occasioned an Evacuation of that Post, which for want of Provisions, took place on the 8th June last. Since my arrival here, I find things in the same Condition—not a mouthful for the Troops to eat, nor money to purchase it with, & I have just reason to believe the credit of Government is wore threadbare here also—The Counties of Lincoln & Fayette particularly, tho' able to sup- ply us, refuse granting any relief without the cash to purchase with on the spot.—I am constrained to Billet the Troops thro' tho Country in small parties, for want of necessaries, except a small Guard I keep in Garrison, so that unless supplies soon arrive, I fear the consequences will be fatal. I am sorry to hear, since my Return that sundry malicious aspersions have been made to my discredit; but as I am conscious of the Rectitude of my own conduct, I despise the Efforts of such & only beg leave to 40
Page 314
314 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. request your Excellency would either order me to Government for an August 10th Examination, or else appoint a suitable number of respectable Gentle- men in this Country to investigate my conduct, so that such aspersions shall not have further weight with my Country. I have been in hourly expectation of Genl: Clark, since my arrival here else would have the Honor to address your Excellency before, but my apprehensions are now really become great, seeing no reinforcements nor supplies; especially as I learn from Dr. Troit that they are very Strong & Prepairing against us—The Enclosed copy of a Deposition will explain the matter more fully—I have only further to request your Excellency would be pleased to give me as speedy an answer as possible, with full Instructions how to proceed, as I am at the greatest Loss under my present distress'd circumstances. I have the Honor to be, your Excellency's mo: obedt Hb Servt. Deposition referred to above. James Ballinger, Soldr in Colo Slaughter's Corps, taken prisoner on the 9th March 1781, by the Tawa Indians, Deposeth, and saith, that on the Day above mentioned, ho was taken prisoner by the Tawa Indians at the fall of Ohio and carried to Detroit and Examined by the Commandr Major DePastor, respecting this place, to which ho the deponent Reply'd that there were at the Falls of the Ohio about 100 Regulars and plenty of Provisions & Volunteers enough might be Had in the Country in case of an Invasion. The Deponant saith ho was frequently without the Stockades that include the principal part of the town, but was not suffered to go within the Fort, but was often around it and Saw the' outside & Saith it appeared to be very Strong, that all the men Prisoners, or Captives taken from us were Obliged to work hard to stockade a greater part of the town & that the Commat interrogated him Concerning an Expedition expected against Detroit—and who was to Command it, & when Col: Clark went to Governmt, to which the Deponant replied that he Expected an Expedi- tion & that Col: Clark should have the Command & that he went to Governnt Last Fall. He further saith that sundry of the Prisoners inform'd him that an Expedition would have been Carried on by the British against Ken- tucky, had it not been that the Enemy expected Colo Clark in their own Country—and further saith that all the Indian warriours are liberally Rewarded for every trip they make against us—& that all the Squaws & Children receive plenty of clothing from them & Rations, when at Detroit—& that almost every one whom he convers'd with while at Detroit and with the Indians, expected that if Colonel Clarke did not apear in their Country soon, that very formidable army of Eng- lish & Indians would come Quickly into ours, and that every Prepara- tion was making for that purpose & further sayeth not."
Page 315
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 315 "The said Ballinger made his escape from the Tawas, after being at 1781. Detroit, and made Oath as above, this 6th of Augt 1781, before me. August 10th JNO: MONTGOMERY Lt: Colo." By an Express from Capt: John Baylie, from Port St Vincent we are assured that the Natchez is in the hands of the Enemy, and been taken by stratagem. Governor Galvas was Bet back from Pencecola with Loss, he himself was wounded in two Differt places of his Body at the time Natchez was taken, there was a large convoy of Batteauxs Bound for the Illinois, that fell into the Enemies Hands, which is a great Loss to Illinois, as their whole dependance was on these Boats.—these with the indifferent Situation we are now in at this time I leave your Excellency to Judge. Should we get no Succour & that Soon what the consequences must be— I am Your Excellency's most Obedt Hble Servt JNO: MONTGRY Lt: Colo." COLO. JOHN MONTGOMERY TO GOVERNOR NELSON OF VA. August 10th "Sir, As i need not be making so many Repititions of our Suffrgs and Falls of Ohio Greivances & ca., which I have wrote to your Excellency in my Letters. I have thought it absolutely necessary to send some one to Government that was well acquainted with our Situation. After some Deliberation, together with the voices of the Officers Present, we are of opinion that major Thos. Quirk was the Properest Person to Effect it, from his knowl- edge of the since its being Raised its now going on three years have Drawn no pay in those parts, nor only scarce Clothing for the Troops, which is the Reason of many of the Best of Our men deserting every day, and if there is no method fallen upon to put a stop to it, I know not what will be the consequence—there is no Resource by way of the can be expected, therefore if the General should not bring some by way of Fort Pitt, we shall be in a deplorable situation. If there was a possability of sending any cloathing, Major Quirk would be a very fit Person to Entrust. not only the Cloath'g, but the pay of the Regim't, if your Excellency think proper to send it out, I would not take upon myself to point out to your Better Judgm't, but our urgent obliges me to go farther on that head than I would do, and for the Reasons above given—Major Quirk will give your Excell'y an acc't of any occurrencies that might happen at this Post—to whom I refer—I am your Excelly's most obt. Humble Servt.
Page 316
316 * CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. ROBT. MORRIS TO GOV'R OF VIRGINIA.* August 10th "Sii. Philadelphia I had the honor to write to you on the 16th Instant, inclosing a certified copy of the Account of your State as it stands in the Treasury Books of the United States. I now pray leave to recall your attention to it. It gives me very great pain to learn that there is a pernicious Idea prevalent among some of the States that their accounts are not to be adjusted with the Continent. Such an Idea cannot fail to spread listless Languor over all our operations. To suppose this expensive war can be carried on without joint and strenuous Efforts, is beneath the Wisdom of those who are called to the high offices of Legislation. Those who inculeate maxims which tend to relax these Efforts most certainly injure the common cause, whatever may be the motives which Inspire their conduct. If once an opinion is admitted, that those States who do least and charge most, will derive the greatest benefit, and endure the smallest Evils, your Excellency will perceive that shameless inactivity must take the place of that noble Emulation which ought to pervade and animate the whole Union. It is my particular duty Sir, while I remind my fellow citizens of these Tasks, which it is incumbent on them to perform, to remove if I can, every Impediment which lies in the way, or which may have been raised by Disaffection, self-interest, or mistake. I take therefore this early opportunity to assure you that all the accounts of the several States with the United States shall be speedily liquidated, if I can possibly effect it, and my Efforts for that purpose shall be unceas- ing—I make this assurance in the most solemn manner, and I intreat that the consequences of a contrary assertion may be most seriously weighed and considered, before it is made or believed— These accounts naturally divide themselves into two considerable branches, viz, those which are previous and those which are subsequent to the Resolutions of Congress of the 18th March 1780. The former must be adjusted as soon as proper officers can be found and appointed for the purpose, and proper principles Established, so as that they may be liqui- dated in an equitable manner. I say in an equitable manner, for I am determined that Justice shall be the Rule of my conduct as far aa the Measure of Abilities, winch the Almighty has been pleased to bestow shall enable me to distinguish between Right and Wrong. I shall never permit a doubt, that the States will do what is right; Neither will I ever believe that any one of them can expect to derive advantage from doing what is wrong. It is by being just to Individuals, to each other, to the Union, to all: by generous grants of solid Revenue, and by adopting energetic methods to collect the Revenue; and not by Complainings, Yauntings or Recriminations, that these States must *This letter is dated July 26th, 1781, but the postscript doubtless fixes the time nbout which it was received in Virginia and acted upon.
Page 317
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 317 expect to establish their Independence and rise into power, Consequence 1781. and Grandeur. I speak to your Excellency with Freedom, because it is August 10th my duty so to speak, and because I am convinced that the language of plain Sincerity is the only proper language to the first Magistrate of a free Community. The Accounts I have mentioned as subsequent to the Resolutions of the 18th March 1780, admit of an immediate settlement. The several States have all the necessary materials. One side of this account con- sists of demands made by Resolutions of Congress long since fowarded— the other must consist of the Compliances with these demands—This latter part I am not in capacity to state, and for that Reason, I am to request the earliest Information which the nature of things will permit, of the monies, Supplies, Transportation &c whice have been paid, advanced, or furnished by your State, in Order that I may know what to rely on, and how to do equal Justice to those who have contributed and those who have not: to those who have contributed at one period and those who have contributed at another. I inclose an account of the Specific Supplies demanded of your State, as extracted from the Journals of Congress, tho' without any mention of what has been done in consequence of these Resolutions, because as I have already observed, your Excellency will be able to discover the ballance much better than I can. I am further to intreat Sir, that I may be favoured with Copies of tho several Acts passed in your State, since the 18th of March 1780, for the collection of Taxes and furnishing supplies or other aids, to the United States; The manner in which such acts have been executed; the times which may have been necessary for them to operate, and the Conse- quences of their Operation—I must also pray to be informed of so much of the Internal Police of your State, as relates to the laying, assessing, levying and collecting of Taxes. I beg leave to assure your Excellency, that I am not prompted either by an Idle curiosity, or by any wish to dis- cover what prudence would dictate to conceal. It is necessary that I should be informed of these things, and I take the plain, open candid method of acquiring information. To palliate or conceal any Evils or disorders in our Situation can answer no good purpose. They must be known before they can be cured. We must also know what Resources can be brought forth, that we may proportion our efforts to our means, and our demands to both. It is necessary that we should be in condi- tion to prosecute the war with ease, before we can expect to lay down our Arms with Security, before we can treat of Peace honourably, and before we can conclude it with advantage. I feel myself fettered at every moment, and embarrassed in every operation, from my Ignorance of our Actual State, and of what is rea- sonably to be asked or expected. Yet when I consider our real wealth and numbers, and when I compare them with those of other Countries,
Page 318
318 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. I feel a thorough conviction that we may do much more than we have August 10th yet done, and with more ease to ourselves than we have yet felt, pro- vided we adopt the proper modes of Revenue and Expenditure. Your Excellency's good sense, will anticipate my Observation on the necessity of being informed what monies are in your Treasury, and what sums you expect to have there, as also the times by which they must probably be brought in. In addition to this I must pray you to communicate the several appropriations—A misfortune peculiar to America, requires that I intreat your Excellency to undertake one more Task, which perhaps is far from being the least difficult. It is Sir, that you will write very fully, as to the amount of the several paper Curren- cies now circulating in your State, the probable increase or decrease of each and the respective rates of Depreciation. Having now stated the several Communications which are most Indis- pensable, let me intreat of your Excellency's goodness, that they may be made as speedily as possible, to the end that I may be early prepared with those propositions which, from a view of all Circumstances may be most likely to extricate us from our present difficulties—I am also to intreat that you will inform me when your Legislature is to meet—My reason for making this request is, that any proposals to be made to them may arrive in seanon, for their attentive deliberation— I know that I give you much trouble, but I also know that it will be pleasing to you, because the time and the Labor will be expended in the service of your Country—If Sir, my feeble, but honest efforts should open to us the prospect of American glory, If we should be enabled to look forward to a period, when supported by Solid Revenue and Resource, this war should have no other duration than the wisdom of Congress might allow; and when its object should be the honour, and not the Independenc of our Country. If with these fair views, the States should be roused, excited, animated in the pursuit, and unitedly deter- mining to be in that happy situation, find themselves placed there by the very determination: If Sir, those things should happen, and what is more, if they should happen soon: The Reflection that your Industry has principally contributed to effect them, would be the rich Reward of your Toils, and give to your best feelings that amplest gratification. I have the honor to be Your Excellency's most obedient & humble Servant."
Page 319
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 319 Office of Finance, 10th August, 1781. 1781. "Sir, « August 10th Having some Reason to believe that the Letter of which the afore- going is a Copy has miscarried, I take the Liberty, in the Absence of the Superintendant, to transmit this, as his Official Assistant. I have the Honor to be very respectfully, your Excellency's most obedient & humble Servant— GOUV: MORRIS." His Excellency The Governor of the State of Virginia. JAMES HAYS TO THE GOVERNOR. August llth Forwarding the Militia Law, and the Proclamations, ordered to be Charlottes- rinted, but Mr. Beckley being at the S] procure other documents to be printed. printed, but Mr. Bockley being at the Springs, he has not been able to COL: WM. DAVIES TO HON: DAVID JAMESON. August llth The Officers of the State Garrison Regiment having refused to accept War Office their pay, for certain months in 1780 & 81, on account of not being allowed for full depreciation of the currency, and altho' the State has advanced considerably to them, he submits whether it will not be proper to apply the money intended for them, to Capt: Bohannan's purposes in removing military stores &c. Endorsed. "The Commissioner of the War Office will be pleased to act in this matter, as he shall think proper. DAVID JAMESON." JOHN BROWNE, C. GENL: & COMR OF VIRGA TO Gov: NELSON. August llth "Sir, I have several times inform'd Col: Davies & Major Claiborne, the Camp New necessity of waggons being immediately sent to the Army, or the Troops Kent 0- H. would suffer, but as yet not a waggon have come to hand, nor do 1 hear of any on the way, and the difficulty of procuring meal greatly . increased: from which I foresee the impossibility of subsisting the Army any longer, and the blame of course fall on the Commissaries. in order to Extricate myself from the disagreeable Situation that always insues the want of provisions, I must beg leave to resign my appointment as Commissary General & Commissioner for this State.
Page 320
320 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. There is at this time large quantities of Bacon & Spirits, the South- August 10th side of James River in a perishable condition—the Bacon belonging to the State & the Spirits to the Continent—both of which the Army is Suffering for want of, & no probability of getting it—If the Quarter Masters would have the provision brought to the Army, if it was double the number it is at present, they might be fed with the greatest ease. hitherto they have been fed on Indian Meal, which is a great saving to the State, and Still might have been, but the Mills are nearly all dry, and no further depending on them. The Person that succeeds me I wish to come down immediately: my indisposition, which of late has increased, prevents my continuing any longer at Camp &c." * * * * I have the Honour to be your Excellency's Most obt Servant." August llth BENJ: JORDON, COMY: MILL STORES, TO Irving's "The men at this Post, suffering much "for want of Spirits to drink:" Store ne nas appiied to the Commissioners of Adjacent Counties, but "cant get any"—Asks how ho can be supplied—There is a largo quantity of Whiskey in that neighborhood, which can be purchased at £60 pr: gallon. The men have no Salt, and have to use fresh provisions altogether; there being no Bacon to be had in that place—Begs that "the most spediest method be directed" to supplying those articles. August llth BERRYMAN GREEN A. D. Q. M—TO COL: DAVIES. Richmond He has received through a Servant, a packet of blank impress war- Wants and rants, <:without a syllable of information" to enable him to comprehend thO M wnat was intended he should do—he supposes however, it is intended, Department power should be vested in some ono, on severe penalty of failure, to impress one hundred and twenty wagons; but as they are not directed to any special person, although he is well aware of the great want of transportation, he cannot undertake the business—Had any general order been directed to Major Claiborne, as Deputy Q. Master for the Continent in this State, or had one issued from the Marquis de Lafayette, as Commanding Officer in the State, ho should have felt guaranteed in endeavouring to effect something in the way of releif from "the present distressed situation "—desires further instructions, but if required to act under the restrictions "expressed in the warrants" he cannot, and will not. He feels already, "sufficiently bound to do his duty"; if not, let what may be further necessary, be required of him by his Superiors in Office—He sees "with pain" the Officers in his Department treated with
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 321
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 321 "so much contempt" by the Executive, especially, as they have made 1781. such efforts to promote the interests of the State, as well as of "the August llth Continent" — Mr. Ragland refuses to take other than cash for the wheels, Complaint of spoken of— this he has not to give. °*acte™ the Execu- iive CAPT: HENRY GREER TO COL: WM. DAVIS. August ilth Sir, As my situation in this place is so bad, I hope you will Excuse me New London in taking the liberty to informo you me and my men is Almost neacked for want of clothing and this poast with any money which Render it Quaint and more disagreeable as we cannot purchis. But as for the men if it is ti agreeable to you they Can be suplied by Coin. Callaway — I can asure you they are almost neacked and constantly mermering for there pay as they have not rec'd Any this Eight months. as for me I met with Great loss at whear Capt: Bohannan and me Carried on the laboratory below Char- lottesville. But I strove to save all the Stores which would Bo Afectod had not the ban-on left the point fork for I got two hundred Barrels powder in Cannoes in order to got pertection Under the barren But he was gon — the enemy hearing of mo fowled And took all that but what Stores lost, I got hid in the woods. Was all saved which I went back and sent it All to the Barracks, but there was two Waggon load of Very Valliable stores left by me at Buck island Creek, such as bridles, axes, spurs And Camp Kittles which came from Fredricksburgh. I beloive if Capt Bohan- nan Has not forgot ho may have got them — the man's name is Lovly — I hope you will please to Concider my situation and Order as you think best and I am your obt. Huml Servt. COL: CHRISTIAN FEBIOER TO Gov: NELSON. August 12th The Legislature of this State were pleas'd at their last October Scs- Cumberland sion, to order four months pay to be advanced to their Officers at the old C- H- rate of 100 for one, in depreciation. At that time he was in Philadel- phia on necessary public business by orders of Genl: Greene—and required to remain there by that Officer—By this means he was deprived of a personal application for the money due him, which at that time would have afforded him some releif—He wrote to Maj. Pryor to receive it, and if possible effect an Exchange for Philadelphia—this he could not do, and of course he did not suppose the money had been drawn. He had to resort to other means of subsistence, and on his return was sur- prised to receive a letter with the money enclosed, by accepting which he loses four hundred per cent of his pay. He therefore begs that the' money may be received into the Treasury and his receipt for it returned, or that ho may be allowed the amount of the depreciation up to 1st of 41
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 322
322 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. March last. He cannot suppose the Executive are willing that an officer August 12th whose duty compelled him to be absent, should on this account suffer so materially. Capt: Finley, "a gentleman of merit and Paymaster to this Station" waits on his Excellency with an estimate of the Funds neces- sary to the Wants of the Post he commands. He therefore begs it may be advanced to him, who will be held accountable for its prompt and proper disbursement, and with prompt returns thereof to the Auditor's Office—&c. August 12th COL: CHRISTIAN FEBIGER, TO COLO WM. DA VIES. "Dear Colo, Cumberland What in the name of God will become of our paper money in a very little time—It certainly must, and will sink in the hands of the holders, in a very little Time; however I have no fears on this head, as my Pocketts are pretty empty. I, as well as the poor Devills that are with me, must have a little of the Trash, for which purpose I have sent Capt: Finley (who is appointed Paymaster pro tempore to the Station) to Richmond, with an Estimate of the sum wanting, in which you are included for Six Months, as well as old Holmer. You can be included for more, if you please, and I will be much oblig'd to you for putting Capt: Finley.in a Way to getting the Money without running to Camp for a Warrant from those that know nothing of our Situation—The £9000, voted each Colonel, on account, last October Session, at 100 for one, was received for me by Major Pryor, a few days ago, in Bills emit- ted under an Act of 1st March last. Am I to lose the depreciation on money not in Existance? I have sent it back to the Treasury, with a letter to the Governor on the subject preferably untouched. I like this place muck for a Rendezvous—Flour and Grain is to be had within 9 miles at most^—there is Beef enough in this little County for 300 men for six weeks and I will take steps for a further supply. Should not Captain Peyton as Clothier, reside at or near the general Rendezvous, and I might know what 1 had to depend on—Ragsdell's Company is compleated in men, but naked in the literal sense of the word— I shall in a few Days, have things so regulated here, that Major Posey, who is with me, can with propriety transact the Business of the Post. Provision and Forage is laid in for six weeks, and in a few Days I'll have much more, and then I propose to take a Trip post haste to Philadelphia, to fetch a certain Acquaintance of yours, whose Company I am remark- ably fond of— is it not absolutely necessary, as we cannot promise supplies for our own Troops in this State, much more for the Southern Army, that some active person should allways be stationed in Philadelphia, for the purpose
Page 323
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 323 of procuring and sending on stores of all kinds—I have had a surfeit of 1781. that Business, yett it is necessary. August 12th I thought Mr. Nicholson was there, but I am just told he has returned into the State—If there is any Business that would neither be attended with Expenco or Delay (as I propose to stay in the City not more than 3 or 4 Days, I shall transact it with Chearfulness.—it would be 40 miles out of my way to go by Richmond. But should my presence be want- ing on any Business of Consequence, before I start, I will call on my way." ****** * * "I'll thank you for some Information on what Principle, Johnson of the 1st, Lovely of the 4th, Hoard of the 6th and Swearingham of the eight, were appointed Captains, and no notice the least was taken of the Resignations of the two Captains Harrison, and and by placing Higgins and Stith in my Regt., five of my Subalterns are once superceded by Fields and Subject to a Second Supercession by Willson— I have not the Resolution of Congress respecting a retrospective view to Rank, but am almost certain that some mistake has happen'd with Respect to the two Harrisons, as not a word is mentioned about them." I am my Dear Colonel yours Affectionately." "To his Excellency Thomas Nelson Esquire, Governor, or Cheif Magis- August 12th trate of the State of Virginia, and the Honorable the members of the Privy Council of the Same." "The Petition of the inhabitants of Lunenburg County humbly shew- Lunenburg eth, That in a late excursion of Col: Tarleton's Legion through this County, many citizens were greatly injured in their property; and com- pelled (in order to obtain their personal liberty) to sign such paroles as their Captors thought proper to dictate. We know these paroles, by Law, are not binding on peacable citizens, thus taken from their own homes; But your Petitioners beg leave to represent to your Excellency • and your Honors, the peculiar case of the Reverend James Craig, rector of Cumberland Parish in this County; a person eminently distinguished for his zeal & attachment to the cause of American liberty: a rule of conduct adopted in the very earliest period, and pertinaciously persisted in, through every vicissitude of the present contest: no less esteemed for his Charity, devotion, and exemplary piety in his public character, than respectable for his virtues in private life; equally alert in engaging in every scheme for the welfare of his Country and the success of its arms; and successfull in removing dangerous prejudices from the minds of the people, by drawing the proper line, and pointing out the true dis- tinctions, between resistance of Lawless power & Rebellion. This Gen-
Page 324
324 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. tleman, after seeing the cruel vengeance of the enemy, in the destruc- Angust 12th tion of a very great part of his property; and himself treated with indig- nity and insult, tho' in a very low and precarious state of health; Was detained as a Prisoner untill he subscribed an engagement "not to take arms, be of Council, or commit any other act that might militate against the success of the British Arms," and all this under a pretence, that in addition to his other crimes, he had at that time a Public Magazine at his house. Your Petitioners consider it as a public misfortune to be deprived of the ministerial office which has been exercised by Mr. Craig, since the declaration of independency, for a very small and precarious reward, no way adequate to the trouble & fatigues attending it, but which he can now no longer execute in the manner directed by Congress, without exposing himself to dangers, from which his Country, in its present vul- nerable state, cannot protect him. Your Petitioners therefore pray that tho Executive will consider how far Mr. Craig is bound by these Engagements; and as far as may be con- sistent with the Constitution and the Articles of Warr, endeavour to have him exchanged—And your Petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray &c. D. STOKES JNR Colo. ED'D BRODNAX L: Collo. J. GARLAND Magistrate JOSHUA RAGSDALE Capt: JAMES JOHNSON" WM. TAYLOR JOHN BALLARD JR:" And ninety two other signatures. August 12th GOVR THOMAS BURKE, TO Gova NELSON OF VIRGA. "Dear Sir, Williamsbo» I have received your obliging favor of the 27th of last month. ™uShi I thank you for your Congratulations, well knowing that you wish me, Co., N. C. not only a successfull, but also an agreeable Administration. You have however, too Just an Idea of our difficulties, to entertain much hope of either. Tho' I foresaw your difficulties, and anticipated your uneasiness, yet I could not but rejoice at your appointment, because I expected from thence an advantage to our Common Country, and I well know that to be an object very Interesting to you. Our open, unprepared Countries must every where, yield to the ravages of the Enemy for a time, when they move in any force, and Cavalry and Ships give them advantages far beyond our power to con- trol. I hope however, that in Cavalry, their advantage will not long continue, tho' the People with us, are so attached to their horses, for which they seem to have a fond affection; that they are very unwilling to spare them, even for their own defence. I shall not suffer so import-
Page 325
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 325 ant an object in this State, to be frustrated by the foly or parsimony of 1781. Individuals. And as I perceive some are preparing to send their horses August 12th into your State to avoid our laying hands on them, I request the favor of you to permit me to send and seize any from this State, which may be carried into yours with that Intention. Orders were Issued to the Commissary General of this State, to make Provision for the Militia, which you say are to march from yours to Join Genl: Greene, but as their rout is not knowu, the necessary prepara- tions cannot be perfected—I request you Sir, to inform me of the rout by which you intend they shall march, as early as possible—it will be requisite in order to prevent distress to them, and also to our Inhabit- ants, who have not yet recovered from the ravages of the Enemy, and could not supply any considerable body of Troops, without collecting contributions from a wide space around them. I have made such arrangements that with sufficient notice, I hope we shall be able to sup- ply such Troops as may March through the State, or act in it, with pro- • visions, at least so far as the Country can afford, without again suffering such abuses, as can scarcely be prevented, when no previous preparation is made and which yet cause great waste, and give great disgust—At present we want more time than I hope shall hereafter, when our Trans- portation business shall be better provided for. Among many of our wants, that of flints is not the least distressing— I recollect a supply to have been ordered from Congress for this State, but cannot find, that they ever arrived. I suppose them lodged some- where in Virginia, and must request the favor of you to order Enquiry to bo made among the departments of your Military Stores—If there be none with your Commissaries for our account. I beg to know whether you can supply us with a few thousand, which shall be replaced from the Northward. I am preparing a force for the Feild, but find scarcely one thing, which an Army requires, in readiness. I have ordered Expresses to be stationed from Taylors Ferry on Roanoke to Charlotte, near the Catawba.—from thence a Communica- tion is constantly kept up with Genl: Green. I have made an arrange- ment for transmitting to him every article of Intelligence without delay, and request you to give Orders for communicating what you may deem Important as early as possible." * * * I am Sir, with the most sincere Esteem and regard, Your very Obd: Servt." MAJOR JOHN PRYOR, TO COL: DAVIES. . August 12th After dwelling at length upon the difficulty of collecting, accounting Richmond for and furnishing arms, and refers especially to the want of cavalry accoutrements, and the conflicting operations of the State and Conti-
Page 326
326 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. nental Departments,—continues "There is nothing I would not do or con- August 12th tribute within my poor abilities, to serve my deranged & distrest Coun- try, but realy my wearied mind calls out for a small respite from the fatigue it has undergone for these eight months past; on the other hand the Marquis expects me within a few days, so soon as I can conclude some matters of my department, down to transact the Exchange of Prisoners, or would be happy in the honor you do me by Tendering me the post of F. C. G. Mil: Stores for this State. I am fully convinced of the necessity of such a person, and hope, not doubting, that you may soon meet with a suitable object for the purpose—I will do myself the honor of waiting on you in the morning, on some business from the Marquis: in the mean time, I am, Dr Sir," August 12th COL: THOS: GASKINS TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Northum- He has given orders to have the six months men arrested—Many of and Co. tnem nave already enlisted in a Legion raised in the County by order of the Marquis—Many deserters still at largo; some have fled to the enemy and others have left the County. The new Levies, and substitutes have enlisted for the war, but ho has ordered them to be employed in the Legion, until otherwise disposed of. August 13th JOHN WATKINS TO COL: DAVIES. Sorry Co. In regard to collecting estray cattle and horses—There are only two or three of the latter left in the County which can be gotten, but are in possession of persons whoso families have the Small pox. Has secured only four cattle, and thinks there are not many more left. August 13th Jno: Moss offers his services as Agent of the State, to procure Articles King & in Baltimore or Philadelphia for the Troops, having once acted in that Queen Co. capacity and given satisfaction. August 13th Col: James Hendricks informs Col: Davies, that it will be impossible Alexandria to mount the Four Boats he has had built on carriages, with paper money, this currency having no value in that vicinity, but ho can "do the business" with public Tobacco—The Arms referred to, are being received by Capt: Summers at Noland's Ferry, to be fowarded to Fau- quier Co. House—If Russia sheeting, Jlaven's Duck, Dowlass Checks &c are wanted he can purchase a large supply on good terms with Tobacco, but not with paper money.
Page 327
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 327 CAPT: THOMAS WABMAN TO THE GOVERNOR. 1781. August 14th Appealing for relief; and enclosing acct. of his losses when taken Bottoms prisoner, and of pay due him—During six years service he has received ri ^e only about one hundred pounds in cash, and linnen enough for four shirts. Four years he was in captivity and was obliged to spend his private means, which are now nearly exhausted—Unless he can receive some compensation, he will be forced to leave a service to which he is attached both from principle and sentiment—Among other articles lost, he enumerates the following 1 Small sword & cutlass, £18.5.0. Silver watch £12.00—Bath great-coat £4.10—Superfine hair shag-coat & breeches £17..10.0 1. Fringed dimmothy waistcoat, & Silk Tabby £5.10. 2 pair of Corduroy Breeches & 2 pr: Russia Drab £5.15. 7 Ruffled Shirts & 6 plain £23.5—Cambric & Muslin Stocks, Silk handercheifs, and Stockings—Knee-buckles & Hard Soap, Razors, Ivory & horn comb—1. Bible & hymnbook &c. DR. MATHEW POPE TO THE EXECUTIVE. August 14th "Sir, Permit me to represent to your Excellency and the Hon'ble Mom- Richmond bers of the Council, the wretched situation of the poor soldiers in this state, for want of a general Hospital being established at some proper place or other, for their reception; at present there is none at all, and they are strolling about the Country (many of them miserable objects indeed) seeking an Asylum, and no place whatever provided to render them the smallest comfort; this circumstance I am almost every day an Eye-witness of; besides the repeated applications and complaints I receive from different parts of the Country of the distresses of those unhappy sufferers— My duty, as well as my inclination obliges me to lay this matter before your Honble Board, not doubting but some mode will immedi- ately be adopted for their relief—I can assure your Excellency (from observation) I see plainly, that by the sick being scattered and dying about, all over the Country, private Practitioners attending them, Board & Lodging to pay for & ca, it will in the end, be attended a much greater expence to the State, than the Establishment of a regular and well con- ducted Hospital would be: no assistance or attention on my part shall be wanting to promote so desirable an end. Should Westham or any other place, be thought convenient, or secure for erecting an Hospital, I am ready to go and fix on a proper spot for that purpose, whencver you will please to favour me with your orders. I have the Honour to be, with the highest Esteem & fiespect &c."
Page 328
328 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: WM. DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR. "Sir, August 14th In obedience to the Order of Council, I gave notice of the time and War Office place, to Mr. Brown, the Commissary of provision, when I should be ready to proceed in the enquiry they had directed; and with a view of affording him a full opportunity of vindication', I suggested to. him sev- eral of the accusations to which he was exposed. I received from him an answer, that he had declined to act any longer, and that he desired government to appoint a person to succeed him. Whether this evasion of scrutiny is a circumstance of innocence, or any atonement for great misconduct, is a question easily decided. I congratulate my Country, however, upon the riddance, and trust that a successor can be found, whoso long acquaintance with the army and this department in particular, will enable him to do justice to the State. The Commissariate being one of the departments, for the regulation of which, the orders of the government are required to be issued thro' this office, I hope to meet with the favorable indulgence of the Execu- tive, while I take the liberty of stating a few observations for their con- sideration. From many unavoidable circumstances, the expence of the war has fallen very heavy upon this State. Permit me, however, to suggest that much expenco might have been saved, and many disputes avoided, that will infallibly arise in the settlement of the Continental accounts, had a more rigid attention been paid to the adoption of the Continental regu- lations. Indeed, Congress have some reason on their side, when they say to us "we only require from you certain supplies; We have various purposes to which we propose to appropriate these supplies, and have appointed proper officers, and established a regular system for this pur- pose; any interference therefore on your part, will only derange our sys- tem, and as, at any rate it is unnecessary, we cannot allow it." This Sir, is the language at this day in every Continental officer to the northward, and at the adjustment of our accounts, I fear will be urged fatally against us. To apply this observation to the department of Commissary of pro- visions, and to convince Government that we are pursuing totally a wrong system, a system very expensive to the State, and liable to great dispute in a settlement with Congress, I have taken the liberty to enclose the arrangement* of Congress on this subject. By that arrangement, we find a Commissary General of purchases for the Southern depart- ment, is the only proper officer to attend to the supply of the Army; he is to make the purchases, he is to give the State credit for her supplies of provisions; he is to order it to be transported and delivered to the * Not found.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 329
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 329 issuing Commissaries; for these purposes Congress have established a 1781. number of assistants; as many as may be necessary for the department. August 14th At present however, we have taken this whole business into the hands of the State, to the very great expence of government; and not only that, but Mr. Brown undertook to appoint issuers, who acted for many months, and have not accounted for a particle, and never will—In con- versing with Major Forsytho, who is the proper Continental Commissary of purchases for the Southern department, and who was many months in the State, without being employed, he told me that the credits which the State had upon his book, did not amount to a fiftieth part of what they had supplied in fact, but that it was furnished in so irregular and immethodical manner and so totally out of the Continental Channel of business, that he had it not in his power to comprehend them in his accounts, and that he doubted whether they would be allowed at all. To impress more forcibly here, the consequence of a continuance in this deranged system, I beg leave to refer to the inclosed copy of a letter* from the Superintendant of Finance, with the resolution of Congress, by which it is evident that ho depends entirely upon the credits which the State has upon the books of the Continental treasurer, Commissary gene- ral, and quarter master general, for a knowledge of the supplies fur- nished by the State. Utter confusion must inevitably and forever bo the consequence, when we, by arrangements of our own, raise large demands against the Continent, while according to theirs, which of right should supersede ours, in Continental matters, and are in fact much better, we are largely in their debt—Congress call, from time to time, upon the State for what is due upon the various requisitions: the State says, she has already contributed more than her proportion: Congress appeal to their books and we to ours, and the whole referred to the great mass of unadjusted claims. If this confusion was unavoidable; if there were not regular channels to throw this business into, where, from the commencement of the transaction to the end of it, the nature of the debt and the person of the debtor would not be on both sides acknow- ledged, we should then have nothing more before us, but to bear it, as our unavoidable misfortune. The choice however, of a person well acquainted with the business of purchasing, of supplying the army, of arranging the department and throwing the business of it into a proper and uniform channel, will be productive of immense advantage to the public, and will releive govern- ment from a great number of very distressing embarrassments." ***** "I beg leave to represent to the Executive, one thing more, which is intimately connected with the due administration of the Staff depart- ments of the State. By the law for regulating the war office, the quartermaster general is required to make returns of all the articles of *Not found. 42
Page 330
330 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. forage that is collected by the county commissioners: of course they August 14th must be accountable to him, and subject to his orders; and yet they are appointed entirely by the Commissary of provision, which subjects the quarter masters department to some inconvenience—It would be equally inconvenient on the Commissary, if the Quarter Master appointed. For these reasons, I would submit it, whether it would not be advan- tageous, that the Commissioner in each county should be appointed by the Executive, and the appointments communicated to them thro' this office. If we could once have those two departments brought into the regularity of which they are capable, I cannot but persuade myself, that "after furnishing our proportion of specifies, and reserving a sufficiency for the ordinary purposes of the State, we should find a valuable sur- 'plus of articles to be thrown into the hands of the commercial agent, as a fund for the purposes of his important department. I will close with one observation, which I think peculiarly interesting to us, altho' it did not strike me before; and that is, that by the State undertaking to supply the Marquis' army, by our own State officers, we actually preclude our- selves from any assistance from any other State. By the regulations of Congress, a certain number of States to the north of us, are allotted for the support of the forces operating in the Southern department. For- sythe being the only principal to whom they account, is the only person who knows what they have, or who has a right to call on them for supplies. His business being wholly assumed by Brown in this State, he has gone to the Southern army, without leaving even a deputy, as far as I can understand. Nobody out of the State, being subject in any manner to the call of Brown, we are therefore cut off by arrangements of our own, from every species of specific supplies from the adjacent States, as there is no person in this State at all authorized either to receive from them, or to settle with them. I must sincerely beg pardon for detaining the attention of the honor- able board so long. I should not have presumed to have done it, had I not been convinced of the great importance of the subject I have ven- tured to discuss, and been encouraged by the condescending attention with which the Executive have been pleased occasionally to favor me. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect Your Excellency's most hble Servant." August 14th JOS: JONES AND THEO. BLAND TO THE GOVERNOR. "Sir, Philadelphia We have your favor of the 27th ulto—The Delegates moved in Congress* for a resolution to furnish our State with some passports for Vessels to import Salt only from Bermuda, and load with Indian Corn and flour in return—The motion meeting opposition was committed, and
Page 331
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 331 no Report is yet made—We shall hasten this business all we can, and 1781. use our best endeavours to support it. August 14th The allied army, under the command of Genl: Washington continues in the neighborhood. of Dobb's Ferry, waiting events to commence operations agst New York. From Spain we have advices of a powerfull armament preparing in that Kingdom for a secret expedition, supposed ag'st Minorca, and that it would be in action in the course of the last month—8000 Troops, it is said were to be employed on this occasion—The celebrated Necker, being disgusted, and applying for his dismission, it was granted him—Whether 'his retiring from office may affect the credit of the nation, time will dis- cover. It is to be lamented that any disagreement at this critical conjuncture which calls for vigorous and united efforts, should appear in the Councils of our good ally. It is with reluctance we request your Excellency to press the Agent to send foward supplies for our support—necessity alone could induce us again to mention it; but we feel for the honor of the State, as well as for ourselves, upon this occasion, and wish to avoid every mode of supply that may be disagreeable to either. We have the honor to be S'r Yr: most obedt Servts." MAJOR RICH'D CALL TO COL: DAVIES. August 14th He will aend at once to Winchester for the Cavalry accoutrements at Cumberland that place. His officers have been collecting them from the Volunteers,' but not with much success, because they refuse to give them up, secrete them, and contend they have a right to them—Unless some stringent measures be adopted to enforce obedience to orders, they will never be collected. Col: E. Edmunds applies to the Governor for a number of Blank Com- August 14th missions for his County, the County Lieutenants and many Militia Offi- Fauquier Co. cers having resigned. Rob't Walton sends to the Governor a statement of Drafts on the August 16th State drawn by Maj: Genl: Greene, but which were captured by the Prince Ed- British; he informs him, so that their payment may be stopped &c. w
Page 332
332 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JNO: PIERCE TO THE EXECUTIVE. "Gents, August 16th The deranged situation of affairs in the Cgmmissary department during the present campaign, having occationed the execution of that office so very disagreeable, difficult & troublesome, Mr. John Browne, in consequence thereof (& for the many abuses he has received from the Army & others) has requested the liberty to resign, & requests that some person may be appointed to succeed him immediately, that he may extri- cate himself from future troubles & abuses; it being obvious that the difficulties in future in supplying the Army will make the Office still- more disagreeable, unless properly arranged; but as there is the greatest probability of the Army's Suffering should Mr. Browne's resignation be received, I flatter myself that I may be able to prevail on him to con- tinue in office could matters be arranged in the following order— 1st. That a generous price be allowed for all future supplies obtained, that the Inhabitants may be encouraged to furnish freely & voluntarily. 2ndly. That the Commissaries be assisted with every means of Trans- portation of supplies obtained; to have the same conveyed to some con- venient place of Storage if necessary & from thence to the Army as it may be required. Srdly. That particular directions be given, in what manner, the Com- missioners of the different Counties are to proceed under the last Act of Assembly to collect supplies, & that Mr. Browne be allowed to appoint persons to inspect into the conduct of his deputies in the different Coun- ties, giving charge of as many to the persons so appointed, as may be convenient for them to take charge of—these persons to settle monthly with the deputies of those Counties assigned to them, & to make return in like manner to Mr. Brown, in order that the Stocks on hand may be known at any time he may be called on to report the same. 4thly. That sufficient sums of money be furnished, when required to enable the Commissary to procure necessary assistance, & such supplies as cannot otherwise be obtained. I am Gents Yr: Most Obt Servt." August 16th B. E. HENDERSON, JOHN KEY, R'N LINDSAY AND JAMES MARKS, MAGI- STRATES—TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Albemarle The Court House of this County has been made use of as a Hos- pital for near three months past—which has effectually put a stop to the business of the Court. You must be senceable of the many great inconveniences as well as disadvantages attending the Inhabitants of the County, as well as the
Page 333
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 333 public, by continuing the sick in that House; therefore we hope you will 1781. be pleased to direct that they be removed to some other Place. August 16th 'We are senceable we have an undoubted right to Order them immedi- ately out of the Court House, but as we would not wish to do any thing rashly that might occation disputes between the civil & military, have thought proper to Lay the matter before you—& most earnestly request that they may be removed between this and the Second Thursday in next month, that being the Day of our next Court. Wo are with due Respect Your Excellency's Very Hble Servants." Teos: ANDERSON D. C. GENL: TO THE GOVERNOR. August 16th In regard to the difficulties of procuring supplies—He was appointed Buckingham assistant, under the provision Law for that County by Mr. Browne—His first duty was to collect the estray cattle and get beef for the use of the Pout under Capt: Bohannan and the army. He had employed sixteen men, exempts from military duty, to drive cattle for him and had gotten one hundred from that county and branded them, but the Co. Lieut: Col: Cabell having decided these men should go to the field he is now without help, and the cattle will become dispersed over the country, unless he is furnished with money to hire others to help him—There is a large quantity of wheat & corn on hand in the county, which the people will be glad to sell—Has written to the Comm: Genl: frequently on this subject, but gets no reply. BERRYMAN GREEN A. D. Q. M. TO WM. F. GAINS ESQR. August 16th Has received his Order for all Quarter Masters on the route to Genl: Richmond Greene's army to furnish fresh horses &c. He should be happy to comply with this requisition, but all the horsen, except those actually in use, are at Carter's Ferry—In addition to this Major Claiborne requires him to attend solely to the Continental Office, and not to the District affairs—By applying at Carter's Ferry he may be furnished. GOVR THOS: BURKE TO GOVR NELSON. August 16th "Sir, I received last night, yours of the 10th Inst: with dispatches from State of N. C- Congress enclosed. I shall with pleasure keep up the weekly correspondence you wish for, and more frequently as occurrences may arise.
Page 334
334 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. I had early notice of the Enemy's directing their movements towards August 16th York River, and formed a conjecture which I do not yet entirely give up, that when they have attracted the attention of the collected force in Virginia, far to the Northward and Eastward, they will avail them- selves of their Water and Cavalry advantages for moving all of their forces which they shall not secure in Garrisons in Virginia, across the Country to annoy Genl: Greene: but they must govern themselves by events, as well as we. Did I not know that private objects when compared with public, make but a small figure in the mind, I should be much concerned for the posi- tion at York, the once happy seat of your Family; but I know that the effect it may have on your Country, is to you a matter of far greater concern. I have already thought on the subject of Salt, which you propose to my attention, and have been meditating upon several measures for pro- curing a supply sufficient for both States and the Army. I clearly see that no means will be effectual, but such as may interest private com- mercial adventurers in the importation of it: Some ill judged acts of government in this State, have contrary to all good policy, rendered the imported property of the merchant precarious, and thereby so depressed the spirit of commerce, that we now feel great distress from want of her supplies; and it will require peculiar attention and encouragement to revive it to any degree of enterprise equal to our necessities—I have determined to stretch the hand of Government as powerfully and pru- dently as I can, for cherishing and protecting it, and for this purpose shall be obliged to dispense with some resolutions of Congress, that require the prohibiting the exportation of Provisions, and shall use a power with which I am entrusted by the assembly of permitting such exportation, entirely with a view of engaging importations of Salt & Military requisites: the matter appears to me of great consequence, and therefore I have determined to visit the Sea-ports in order to convene the Mercantile Interest and to inspire them with confidence by personal promises of my favor and protection; & I flatter myself that my sacred Regard, politically as well as privately to the liberal faith of engage- ments, is so generally known amongst 'them, that I shall be able to produce some good effect. I doubt much whether the resources which can be spared from our State, will afford a remittance sufficiently ample for the supplies which are required for Both States, and therefore recom- mend to your attention the adopting of some plan for engaging some of your wealthy and experienced Merchants to carry on a Trade through our navigation, with the resources of your State, which I hope may be practicable, notwithstanding the great destruction of your Tobacco: you may Sir, assure them of every protection and assistance which this government can give, you .may also depend upon unremitting attention to the subject, and my best endeavors for obtaining sufficient supplies.
Page 335
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 335 You will find inclosed some extracts from Letters which came to hand 1781. this morning from General Greene—I doubt give your best August 16th assistance in procuring for him the information he mentions, which he thinks of so much importance— I shall set out for the lower parts of the State, as soon as a Hurt which I have received by an unlucky accident will permit me to travel, which I hope will be in a few days; but shall leave here a confidential Gentleman, in order to foward to General Greene all matters of import- ance; to you, every thing that can be interesting hero, and to me, what- ever may arrive—the line of Expresses therefore will still be the Channel of our Communication, tho' it will be sometime before I can take a Sta- tionary position— 1 am with very great esteem and regard Your very obedt. Sorvt." Extracts referred to above.—from Letter from Genl: Greene to Gov: Burke dated '•Ifigfi Hills of Santee—Aug: 2d 1781. . "Every information in that quarter is important to us at this time, as our operations here depend much on tho movements of tho Enemy in Virginia—I rely much on your industry to obtain a knowledge of the Enemy's situation and intentions, and by all means I beg you to give me the most certain and authentic information from time to time—Our exertions hero will be cither feeble or strong, as our operations to tho North aro vigorous or successful— Without Reinforeement, we shall be unable to oppose the Enemy or give a check to their operations, in case they should move up, to estab- lish Posts of communication on tho Congaree and Wateree Rivers, which plan I firmly beleive they have at this moment in contemplation, and which I am sure will be effected unless aid is immediately sent me from some quarter or other to prevent it— No circumstances in the military way have turned up since I last wrote you, except a few small strokes; one of which was made by Capt; Watts of Washington's Corps, a few days ago. He met with 20 of the Enemy's Dragoons some little distance from Orangeburg, charged them, killed two, wounded some, and brought off six, with a force exactly equal with his Antagonist—" "High Hills of Santee, Aug 5th, 1781. Since writing tho inclosed letter, the enemy have moved up to McCord's Ferry, whore they now are."
Page 336
336 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO COL: DAVIES. August 16th "Dear Colo, ***** Albemarle Genl: Wayne has almost ruined us by taking the coarse linnen which Barracks Mr -Bog& nad—I am very fearfui the Taylors will be idle for the want of it"—the cloth drawn for the vests will be worked up in two weeks— begs for a further supply as he wishes to have a thousand suits completed by November 1st. The Stockings ho will try to barter off for material to make over-alls. If he could get a "return" of the Clothing drawn from the State by Wayne's and the Marquis' Troops, he might replace it out of the supply expected "from the northward, but they have been issued so irregularly, that he knows not whore to get the information needed—Old "Glymps & his wife" shall be sent down by the next wag- gon to Richmond. Begs for the payment of his assistants, Capt: Fowler & Tibbs, who have never drawn any pay since they have been with him. Concludes "would it be possible to get a little spirits sent to this place for the use of the Store. I do assure you it is d d bad, being entirely without, & having nothing to purchase. I do not beleive the whole of us could raise as much cash as would purchase one Gallon, could it be got for money—" August 16th COL: WM. BROWNE TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Surry Co. Encloses list of "Delinquents" in Surry, five of whom have gone to the Enemy," to wit, Rob't Cunningham, Andrew Nimmo, Jno. Craw- ford, Arch'd Philips & Jno: Barclay"—They were carried down to Ports- mouth by Arch'o Dunlap, Wm. Jones & Wm. Laughton—Jones got a "Flag" from Col: Parker to go to Portsmouth, and carried off these deserters. August 16th Col: Wm. Davios sends out a circular to the Collectors of the Specific War Office Tax, authorized by the last Genl: Assembly, informing them, that quar- terly returns are required from them to his office, giving the articles received, those delivered or exchanged, with the names of the persons to whom delivered—The great misapplication of stores in some parts of the Country makes it necessary to put a stop to "such ruinous irregulari- ties. August 16th Major Chas: Dick sends by "Mr. Grady" to the Executive for a sup- Frederic'sb'g ply of money "for the Factory"—It will take at least one thousand Pounds old money to pay off arrears, which at 500 for one, £500.000— He has borrowed until he can get no more money to "Keep the Trades- men in temper." Requests that no arms be sent up for repairs, "but what can be made fit to fight the Enemy." The magazine nearly finished.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 337
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 337 GOVR. NELSON TO CAPT: WABLEY. 1781. "Sir, August 17th I have received your Letter by Lieut: Doyley, & in answer cannot help observing that had my advice been followed, you would not have had the present Difficulties to contend with. When you arrived in this State, the government considered your situation, & was, to say no more, as liberal in its assistance as Circumstances would allow. If every Con- venience was not afforded you, the Distresses of the Country furnished a very satisfactory Reason for it—Our Demand for Waggons at this time is very great, & if there are any which the Citizens can spare for public use, the Necessities of the Army urge us indispensable to appro- priate them to its service. I hope therefore that you will excuse my not complying with your request. I am Sir, Your Obd: Servt." COL: WM. DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR. August 17th Recommending the appointment of Mr. Foster Webb, as Paymaster, War Office to discharge the claims of Officers and Soldiers of the State, "whose sit- uation precludes them from being included in any pay roll",—which is approved by the Governor— Also drawing attention to the necessity of appointing "a field Com- missary of Military Stores for the State"—especially as the newly appointed "Continental Commisnary Mr. Jones" is here, and desires to have the business arranged between them before he enters on the business of his Department. COL: GEORGE SLAUGHTER TO Gov: NELSON—, roc'd Oct: 10th. August 17th "Sir, Inclos'd you'll receive the Duplicate of his Leters which just now Fort Nelson, came to hand by express, by which you will be acquainted with the .-, a* -.. news and situation of the Corps, to the Westward; an additional greiv- ance to us, is that we are almost in the same situation as to provisions, and much worse as to clothing. my Corps I can with propriety say entirely naked—I have drawn a Bill on the Treasurer of this date, in favor of Capt: Benj: Price for Four Thousand Three hundred & Seven pounds, Ten Shillings, which I hope will be duly honored. & am Your Excellency's Mo: obt. h'mble Servant— 43
Page 338
338 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Copies referred to. August 17th 30th July, 1781. "Sir, I had the pleasure the day before yesterday of putting the match to thirteen Cannon, in rejoicing for the happy success of the Spanish Arms at Pensacola, under the command of the Governor of Orleans, who reduced that strong place by a seige—the details of which I have not yet received from the Spanish Commanders—I will carry it myself in about five days hence, during or before the Seige of Pensacola, the inhabitants of Natchez assisted by some Savages, revolted and took the Fort, and three Batteaux—they sent all the prisoners to Orleans, only keeping the Goods—an army under the command of Colo Don Alvarez de Mira is gone to reduce them. I hope it may rise the price of hemp in that Country. there is a certain Lavaleth who I enlisted in March 1779 for one year, consequently his time was out in March 1780 and it is wrong- ing him to make him serve. I am Dr Sir, with respect &c. (Copy Signed) L. GIRAULT, Commd." Port Vincennes, Aug: 6th, 1781. "Dear Sir, I am sorry to inform you of the following News. the Boat commanded by Capt Coulson started from this, the 11th July, was defeated within 75 miles of the Falls of Ohio—the Captain was killed and three of his men, several others wounded—the remainder of the Company came back and gave me the unhappy News—the retreated to the mouth of Wabache, left the boat & came by Land, the enemy being close in the rear of them—four days ago, I receiv'd News from Detroit that they were much annoyed by the Americans coming against them, also that they were weak—about 100 men—provisions scarce and dear, and goods plenty—the Indians greatly exasperated against them not meeting with the treatment as they had formerly done—Sir, I must inform you once more that I cannot keep Garrison any longer, without some speedy relief. from you. My men have been 15 days upon half allowance; there is plenty of provisions here but no credit—I cannot press, being the weakest party—Some of the Gentlemen would help us, but their credit is as bad as ours, therefore if you have not provisions, send us Whisky which will answer as good an end—I hope, if my Ex- press gets in you will not detain him—Pray use the Indian well, having no other to send, I expect his return in twelve days from the date, and for some one man to come with him to this post—it appears that the Communication is stopt between Cannady and Detroit, from the com- mencement of this year by account from thence. (Copy.) JNO. BAILEY Capt."
Page 339
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. COL: GEORGE MUTER TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. August The arms that were thrown into the River at Westham were all Albemarle recovered but a small number. while he was in Office—and these were directed to be gotten out as soon as the water was low enough to allow it—Mr. Boush of the State Guard Regt. who had them thrown in, was charged with the duty of recovering them—This is all the information he can give at present. COL: D. FISHER TO COL: DAVIES. August 17th • The orders respecting the six-months men, and sending one fourth the Qreensvillo Militia to the field were received, and attention should be paid to them, but the condition of the County will prevent his complying with them— There are no Commissioned Officers to form a Court Martial, and ho cannot march off detachments, as the officers will not serve without Commissions—He had applied for those to Governor Jefferson, but they had never been received—Asks for Comma: for Colo Douglass Wilkins, Lieut: Colo Martin, and Major Edmond Wilkins, and for twenty Capts: & subalterns—This delay however will not be felt much, in as much as the whole force of the County does not exceed two hundred men. COL: GEO: CORBIN TO COL: WM. DAVIES. August 18th "Dear Sir, I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your very Accomack agreeable favour of the 23d ulto:, for which please accept my thanks, it being the only instance of friendly attention in two years past, paid by the Executive to this Shore. A few days before which, a letter from his Excellency, the Marquis came to hand, directing the substitutes from this Shore, to be marched immediately to head quarters, infol-ming us that the joint request of the officers of this Shore, for the continuance of these troops for our defence could not be granted—this had almost convinced me that the defence of the Eastern Shore was considered as an object not worth notice at this time, the State being invaded, but I am happy to find the contrary, and am well satisfied that equal protec- tion will be extended to us, with our follow citizens on the Western Shore, considering our different circumstances.—For the inattention of Government these two years to this Shore, we have suffered many evils— the disaffected amongst us beleiving that we should be soon reduced to british Government, and become an easy prey, began to rob privately, and proceeded at length to murder an active friend to the Common- wealth—this horrid action happened about the first of last month. an immediate pursuit was made after the supposed murderers, and three
Page 340
340 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. persons of bad characters the day following were apprehended upon the August 18th information of a negro, who was known to have been of the party, and had surrendered himself—the people proposed marching them to the gallows, which was accordingly done, when after a short time, under an expectation of being executed, they confessed who were the authors of the murder, confessed they were in company at the time, and that a few nights afterwards several active citizens marked out as proper subjects for the halter, they were to have hanged. This confession carried con- viction of their guilt, and a proposition was made, and generally con- sented to, that the wretches should be immediately executed, after giv- ing them a few hours to settle their worldly affairs—which was at the expiration of the time given, cooly and deliberately done—Since which time we have remained in perfect peace and quiet, untill the 27th ulto: a Capt: Robinson, with four barges and one hundred men cheifly negroes landed on Pungoteague, plundered some of the inhabitants and fired on others; a few militia being alarmed. collected, and began to skirmish with them—one of the blacks being killed, the others retreated to their barges, and made their escape to Watt's Island, distant about five miles. two days afterwards, we pursued them with 150 men, in twenty five small crafts, and continued our pursuit four days and nights. we were not so fortunate as to catch Capt: Robinson, he having gained intelli- gence of us, as we have since been informed, from the Islanders—how- ever we recaptured two of his prizes, a Sloop and Schooner without opposition, which we fell in with off Hooper's Straights, both of which were carried into a safe harbour in the State of Maryland by the barge "Protector," Capt: Zedechia Whalley, belonging to that State. This is the Barge mentioned in my last, for the arming and fitting of which, I made free to lend a part of the Gallies Military Stores, and am happy to find it meets the approbation of Government. I will only ask your attention from matters of greater importance, a few minutes, while I mention an affair, in which a family of good char- acter, and warm friends to the State, are interested, and if it can be consistent with your business make no doubt but you will render them every assistance the public good will admit of—The Rev: John Lyon, Rector of St. George's Parish in this County, was lately brought before a Court Martial in this County, at which Colo Cropper presided—the charge against him, was for having furnished the Enemy with pro- visions and other necessaries, giving them aid and comfort, and dissuading the Militia from doing Duty in taking arms to defend the State—I had the honour to attend the Court at the trial, and acted as Judge Advo- cate. Many witnesses were produced agst Mr. Lyon, which were strictly examined by the Court and myself, the principle of which were reduced to writing in open Court, and will be sent over with the other proceed- ings on the trial. From which there remains no doubt with me, but that Mr. Lyon is unfriendly to American Independence, and as such, it is with some diffi-
Page 341
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 341 culty I can render him Justice—The principle action of Mr. Lyon, which 1781. occasioned his prosecution; was his having been in the night, on board August 18th of Capt Robinson, who commands a British Barge—the day following several houses were burnt—from this, it was conjectured that Mr. Lyon was privy to, if not the author of the mischief—However, I must, in justice to Mr. Lyon, acknowledge that the charge was cleared up entirely to my satisfaction, by two men (who are generally believed to be very friendly) who were prisoners on board Robinson's barge at the time Mr. Lyon was on board—they say that Lyon was brought along side by a small barge, which was sent by Robinson after him, that Lyon showed the utmost uneasiness at being taken, and beged earnestly to be dis- charged, which, at first was refused him, but after much entreaty was granted him—they heard nothing unfriendly from Mr. Lyon, nor did they see any thing which caused their suspicion, except that Robinson came into Mr. Lyon's craft, and remained about two minutes and seemed to be in private. The Gents: whose depositions are sent over, were long possessed of the information by those given, before the transaction above mention'd, and as I am well acquainted with their zeal for the Commonwealth, I conceive if they had imagined any thing prejudicial, would have happened from Mr. Lyon, they would, before this trial have informed—Now Sir, at the earnest request of Mrs. Lyon and'her family, for whom I have not said too much, and at the particular desire of many of Mr. Lyon's Parish, to whom he is generally agreeable, I am induced to ask your assistance for Mr. Lyon: provided you should be of my opinion when the testimony shall come to your knowledge, that it is not sufficient to support the charge. pardon me for taking up so much of your time. I am Dr Sir, with esteem Your Humb Servt." Fragment— "EXTRACT EROM COL: BALFOUR'S LETTER dated 18th August 1781." August 18th "I am sorry that the appeals you make to our Officers, for the human- ity of their treatment when prisoners, cannot be extended to those of the militia in the Same Situation, many of whom, especially those taken at Black Mingo, I am warranted to say are now languishing in the Goals of North Carolina, tho' in direct violation of that Cartel, for the rights of which you so warmly plead." BRIO: GENL: G. WEEDON TO . August 18th "D'rSir, A tour thro' the 5 lower Counties in the Northern Neck which FredericWg has employed me ten days, prevented my acknowledging the rec't of
Page 342
342 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. your fav'r 3d Inst: till now—I cannot give you just information respect- August 18th ing the Arms brought into the State. Such as has been delivered at this post, rec'ts are taken for, & lay in the hands of the Quarter M., but many have been sent on to the Army without being stored at any place. Such the Field Commissary of M. 8. will no doubt be able to render you Acc't of—Others have been sent to Charlottesville—I shuld suppose the most probable way to get an exact acc't of them, would be to write to the Q. M'r, at the different posts, ordering copies of their Vouchers, to be sent you. The better to enable me to proportion the arms allotted by Government for the defence of the Neck, I determined to make a survey of all the Counties & to enquire particularly into their state, & only last evening ret'd from roconnoitering the 5 lower ones. When I get back from reviewing the other 3 shall make you a Gen'l return of the whole. K. George, Westmoreland, Richmond, Lancaster & Northumberland lay exceedingly exposed—many parts of the Neck above them not being more than Six miles across, with good landings on both Flanks; in these Counties are not less than 36.000 Head of Cattle & other Stock in pro- portion—they have about 2250 Militia R. & File. those men have not more than 1200 Effective Guns, 660 Bayonets & 540 C. Boxes. It is proposed with these equipments to form a system, that shall have for its object a position against any attempts that may be made by the Encmy on those Counties, untill assistance can come to them from other parts—to do this it is again proposed that one half of the whole, be con- stantly held in readiness to face the Enemy, that those that remain at home to protect the Counties from insurrections of Blacks & from pirat- ical depredations, in executing this plan the 1125 men facing the Enemy being well armed, will leave only a small number of Guns behind, & those unequally distributed. I do not, at the same time approve of risquing many below. a small reinforcement however for the above pur- poses, may be necessary, & that the men who are considered for imme- diate defence, may at all times be found ready to act with effect. it is recommended to form themselves into Legions—Northumberland has one Troop of Horse, tolerably equipt, Richmond is raising one, & so in Lancaster—Westmoreland & King George may have one each, Commis- sions for the Horse Officers are necessary, as also the authority of Gov- ernment for instituting them. Ammunition is extremely wanting, & Artillery there is none of—with respect to the Factory, I cannot give such information as to make an enquiry necessary, not Knowing a Single Branch belong'g to it—I have found it of the greatest utility, since the State was invaded, in repairing numbers of mutilated Arms, with which the Militia have been equipt & sent into the Feild—Calling on the Man- ager for Monthly Returns of all his Expences & work done might enable you to judge how far Justice to the Public was observed. No doubt the strictest attention should be paid to Workes of this kind, & I should not be nice in informing against any impositions that might come to my
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 343
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 343 knowledge—The return made you by Col: Washington was wrong, as 1781. is too often the case—The 600 wt of Powder mentioned to be in Town, August 18th was stored, or rather concealed in the Country, at a Mr. Colson's on Mattapony—the 250 was all that remained in Town—The Cartridges returned you, were made up by the Inhabitants of the Town on my being sent from Chesterfield, & might have been sufficient for this Place, had not the adjacent Counties drawn supplies from us. I am Dr Sir, Your mo: obt Servt." COL: V. BROOKING TO THE GOVERNOR. August 18th He has been a prisoner of war on parole ever since 14th May last, Amelia Co. and having seen a publication signed by the Commissary of Prisoners declaring all such taken prior to June 15th, to be released from their paroles, he desires to know whether it has received the Sanction of the Executive, in order that he may resign his position as Commandr of Militia, being "very infirm & not able to discharge the Duties" of his Office. J. PRYOR TO Gov: NELSON. August 18th "Sir, The very singular honor done me, by your Letter, and the appoint- Richmond ment* in inclosed merits my most gratefull acknowledgements, and deserves greater services, than am afraid it is in my power to render—I should be extremely sorry If my wishing to decline this post which you did mo so much honor to tender in person a few days ago, should raise the most distant doubt of my Patriotism I must confess great embarrass- mont upon the occasion, and with diffidence accept the appointment, and hope that I shall be indulged wth the nominating my Deputy & Con- ductors and be furnish'd with a sum of money equal to the undertaking in advance, to be accounted for—and so soon as I make the necessary arrangements, must beg a small time of absence to refresh myself from the great fatigue of mind I have undergone for these eight months past in the other troublesome departmet: I acted in. I have the honor to be with every possible degree of Respect & Esteem Sir your Excellencies mo: obt Servt." * Commissary of Mil: Stores for State of Virginia—Ordnance Officer.
Page 344
344 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. BRIO: GENL: Ro: LAWSON TO "Hou: WM. DAVIES." August 18th Amelia Co. Since the roc't of his letter of the 29th ult: informing him, the Gover- nor had gone to consult with the Marquis on the subject of equipping and marching the Militia to the aid of Genl: Green, he has received a letter from His Excellency dated the 2nd Inst. expressing a doubt whether such a measure will be necessary, and that he had instructed the Co Lieutenants to countermand the Orders for the marching of the Militia for the present. This state of things leaves him in suspense: and he begs to be informed as fully and as promptly as possible, in the matter, so that he may have time to carry out his orders properly—The sickly season will soon pass, and the objections on this head be removed. He hopes, if they are called out, the troops will be well armed, in as much'as it is much better to have a thousand men well equipped, than twice that number with indifferent weapons—asks for information "of our Army & that of the Enemy"—as to the prospects of getting more Cavalry & Infantry—What about the designs against New York & pros- pects of success "in that quarter" &c. * * * August isth CAPT: NATHAN REID TO COL: DAVIES. New London Nothing of moment has transpired of late "but that Mr. Groer's wife is dead, and I the pleasure of drinking part of two or three Bowls of excellent punch"—The Soldiers come in very slowly, and the Laboratory men idle for want of cartridge paper. August 18th GEO: PARKER, LEVIN JOYNES, JAMES ABBUCKLE, CLEMT: PARKER AND EDM'D CUSTIS TO Gov'a NELSON. "Sir, Accomack We are induced to apply to your Excellency for a Remission or Mitigation of a Sentence passed on the Reverend John Lyon (by a Court Martial held in the County the 8th instant) to five years imprisonment. From a Review of the Testimony, we are led to think the sentence severe but are far from meaning to cast the slightest reflexion on the Court— As the people here are just now very irritated, as well as alarmed by the plunderings and Burnings of the Barges, as well as the more aggra- vating circumstances of murder and Robberies committed among us by some of our most unworthy Countymen; but to do justice to him we petition for, we must say that as far as we have heard him speak of such conduct it has been with the greatest abhorance—Such an act of clemency would be the means of releiving a most worthy woman and Three children from real distress, their only dependance being on the Emoluments arising from his office as Rector of Saint George's Parish;
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 345
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 345 and we trust would not injure the common cause, as he might be put 1781. under sufficient restrictions in respect to his future behaviour; which we August 18th beleive he fully means shall be friendly and inoffensive, so as not to give the least cause for suspicion—or he would engage to leave the State, and go to New England, the place of his nativity. Tho' we could wish his case would allow him to continue in his Parish as nine tenths of the people in it, are of the Church of England, and we beleive a largo majority would wish him to continue their minister. We are with due respect Your Excellency's Most obedient Servants." MAJOR WM. CROOHAN TO COL: WM. DAVIES. August 18th Dr Colonel, This week I propos'd setting off to Join the Army, being Fort Pitt inform'd a General Exchange of prisoners had taken place, making no doubt of my being Exchanged, but Colonel John Nevill who arriv'd here a few days ago, Says I am not. I flatter myself no Injustice has been done me, but from every Information I had was Injuced to believe there was more Majors of the British and Hessians in our hands than would have Exchang'd me &. all the Majors of our Army (prisoners) whoso Commissions were older than mine, not taken before the surrender of Charlestown. At any roat, I prefer going to Richmond this Fall, but should I be Exchanged or otherways be necessary I should go- down, by sending me a line to Fort Pitt, I will attend.- A few days ago Genl: Clarke sett out from this Country by water with about four Hundred men, Including Officers & Colo. Crockett's Regiment, flattering himself he would be Join'd by some more from Kentucky & the Falls of the Ohio, about half way between this & the Falls—The General Expected 1500 men from this part of the Country & is much chagreened at his disappointment, having provisions, Ammuni- tion, Artillery, quarter masters' Stores, Boats &c., sufficient for upwards of 2000 men—had the country people turned out and went with him, I have no doubt the people on this side the mountain in particular would be sencible of the advantage they must reap by being able to live at their plantations, without the dread of being scalped, which is far from being the case at present, few days passing without the Indians doing mischeif of this kind. I much fear the General will be disappointed in Geting men down the river from Kentucky & the Falls; if so the State is thrown into an Infinity of expence without any advantage, as the few men the General now has, is not more than might be necessary to guard the great num- ber of Boats, Stores Ac he has with him. 44
Page 346
346 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. From every account we have, the Indians are preparing to receive August 18th him, and if they should attack him in his present situation, either by land or water I dread the consequences. The reason so few went with him from this place is owing to the dispute that subsists here between the Virginians & Pennsylvanians respecting the true bounds of the Latter. And the General being a Virginian was opposed by the most noted men here of the Pennsylvania Party. The people here bleam Virginia very much for making them & their lands (which beyond a shadow of a doubt is far out of the true bounds of pensylvania) over to pennsylvania, And I am assur'd never will be Content untill the True bounds of pennsyl- vania is run—'tis true they are going to run what they call a temporary boundary, but so much Injustice is done to the State of Virginia & the people who are now in it, & by this Scandalous Imposition will be forc'd into pennsylvania, that nothing but Disorder will reign until the bounds is run agreeable to the words of the Charter of pennsylvania. I am happy in being Informed the Enemy have left Virginia & hope they will pay no more visits to any part of the State. I am Inform'd Genl: Washington is Troublesome to Sir Henry, which is the cause of their leaving you to assist him. I am your most Humble & Obedient Servant." August 19th CAPT: PRESLY THORNTON TO THE GOVERNOR. Froderic'sb'g By virtue of his Warrant, he has been attempting "the Impressing busines" but the people secrete their horses, consequently has made little progress—He is not familiar with the Laws, and would like to know if there is no way of punishing persons who thus injure the public service. Desires to know whether every family is to be allowed a pair of carriage horses, and each man a riding horse; and whether ho is justifiable in breaking Locks to Search Stables &c. August 19th' MANN PAGE TO Gov: NELSON. Mannsfleld As one of the Executors of Colo Tayloe's Estate, he is induced to apply to his Excellency for information in the following facts—A Slave belonging to this Estate had been taken by a British Privateer: this vessel was afterwards attacked and captured by a Baltimore Privateer, a part of the crew however, the slave among the rest swam ashore and got into Essex Co, where the Militia took them up, and carried them prisoners to Fredericksburg and then to Staunton—He desires to know how the Slave can be recovered, when identified? or whether it will be necessary that he be libelled before a Court of Admiralty?—If there is any other mode, he will be obliged to be informed thereof.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 347
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 347 JAMES ANDERSON TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. As Mr. Ross is to undertake the "getting the Gun Stocks"—he desires August 19th to inform him, "that three men may get as many stocks out of maple, beach or Elm, and saw as much Plank, and form as nlany stocks a week, as will stock two hundred muskets." JAMES ANDERSON TO COL: DAVIES. August 19th A great deal depends upon getting good, artificers for officers to con- Irvin's Store trol and direct others^The latter will not respect their superiors in command, or regard their orders, if they perceive they are not compe- tent to judge of their work. Men of this character are very scarce— Capt: Young is evidently averse to the plan proposed, because there are neither shops nor material ready for use; and thinks he can got the men needed, when this is the case. But unless workmen are secured while the State is invaded, they will not be gotten in twelve months—Mr. Ross offers to furnish Five Thousand Gun Stocks immediately, to be delivered at the Point of Fork—He thinks this should be accepted at once, for "Heaven knows when there will be any muskets stocked" in the present condition of his business—The best way to procure good artificers, will be to give notice in each County that men, shall bo exempted from military duty and receive their wages when due, who are good workmen and will engage for the service. When at the Point of Fork, a few days ago, Mr. Ross informed him, "the negroes that were under Inoculation" would be removed in a few days, and Mr. Ford would then get the shops ready—Capt: Young had ordered him to the P. of Fork, but finding there was no prospect of get- ting to work there, he set out for Irvin's Store, where he found all the Carpenters discharged, and the two log-houses not finished; but Mr. Price has collected some hands and ho expects to begin work in a few days—but there is neither flour, or Salt, on hand, and matters in bad condition generally. COL: JOHN TAYLOR TO THE GOVERNOR. August 19th Sending -under guard by Order of Colo Innes, one John Warden, Camp Dilla- accused of being inimical to the State—The papers found upon his per- ™ds' •^•'jji son go far to prove his intentions, but if they are not sufficient, he is ting's Mill directed to inform the Governor, that Col: Wm. Roane and Capt: James Upshaw of Essex Co. can give much information on the subject &c.
Page 348
348 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Capt: D. Ragsdale expresses his apprehensions to Col: Davies in August 20th regard to the conduct of the "Volunteer Horse." A Mr. Smith of Cum- On the road, berland was Killed the day after the Battle of James Town—his horse r was brought up by two of his Company, who say they were made pris- oners and the horse was given to them by the Enemy, and detain him from the Heir at law, &c. August 20th BENJAMIN JORDAN COM: MIL: STORES TO COL: DAVIES. Irving's Complying with Orders by Capt: Allen, to send down at once all the re repaired arms at that place—also return of ammunition on hand—In the absence of Capt Bohannan he will strictly comply with any direc- tions sent him—Is in great distress for want of money to carry on the business of his Department. August 20th JOHN HARMANSON AND WM. SCOTT TO COL: DAVIES. Northamp- They have sold the greater part of the corn and bacon, and applied ton Co. tlie monev to the supp0rt of guards—The oats and salt still on hand, and wish they were on the other side the Bay—have sold 400 bushels oats and fed a Troop of Horse with some—The corn being old sold low, and 700 bushels have been on hand since the winter, which should be gotten rid of— They have another vessel ready to be launched, which if ensured, they will load with salt and oats; or those articles may be sent over in some other vessel—The freight on salt is £40 pr: bushel, but if this ves- sel were insured, it can be carried for £25—Oats and corn can be carried in proportion. Fredericksburg seems to be the safest port at this time, but any other place will suit, if it be thought proper to order accord- ingly. They desire to know to whom these articles are to be sent in Fredericksburg, to avoid risk from the "Shallopers that comes over." The corn sold, brought only £4 to £6 pr: bushel, but it has been selling for £7—and oats at £5—Salt now sells on that shore at £200 pr: Bushel. August 21st JAMES MADISON JNR., THEOD. BLAND, M. SMITH AND EDM. RANDOLPH, DELEGATES, TO GOV'R NELSON. "Sir, Philadelphia We had the Honour, yesterday, of writing to your Excellency by Mr. Nicolson; Since which, no Intelligence of Importance has transpired. By some accident or other the mail from Virginia did nof arrive yes- terday; and we are not favoured with any accounts from that quarter. The inclosed Gazette will give tlie news of the day. We have the Honor to be with great Esteem, yr: Excellency's most obet & hble Servant."
Page 349
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 349 Col: Wm. Christian informs Col: Davies, he has collected eleven horses, 1781. "supposed to be 'strays" and has sent them to Capt: Young Q. M. G.— August 2lst He has been so ill, he has not searched the entire county over. Charles City Co. CAPT: Juo. ALLEN TO COLO DAVIES. August 2lst The repaired arms, cartridges &c order shall be sent down as soon as Irvin's Store possible—Begs leave to give account of things at that place—Mr. Haw- kins superintendent of artificers informs him, the men he had, refused to do duty until they could receive their wages—Four of them came up on the 19th but brought no tools with them, and there are none to put into their hands. Hand-saws, hammers, & bench plains are wanted, and absolutely necessary to make army chests and boxes for cartridges—The carpenters engaged for six months have been discharged by order of Mr. Nathl Anderson, which has thrown every thing into confusion. The demand for wagons for private purposes is so great, and people give so much more than "the public," that unless the Quarter Master is furnished with money or power to impress, he will not be able to trans- port the arms or cartridges from that place, or to bring from Charlottes- ville, a few articles necessary for the Laboratory. The Post is so much in want of Salt and good flour, that it will be impossible to keep it up longer unless these articles are furnished—He has borrowed all that can be gotten in the neighborhood, and the last has been consumed—Col: Dabney has ordered him to send all the men belonging to the State Troops to their regiments at Goochland C. House—Begs for some "Physic" for the sick, "against the ague & feveur such as "Saults & Tarter;" and the Soldiers pray for a little Whiskey, which may be bought in the neighborhood—He has on hand only "eighteen hundred cartridges fit for service"—The evils hero recited are not imaginary, but too real, demanding prompt and serious attention. Col: Anthony Thornton informs Col: Davies, of the condition of the August 21st Militia &c in his county—He has so arranged the Muster Rolls, as to get rid of useless men, and to keep at least one fourth of his force always in the field—Mr. Higgins has sixty-five stand of arms repaired, and can have no more done, without Salt. He has always sent the six-months men to the field and the County now has only these, and the men who have served their time in the service—The clothing-has been collected and delivered to Major Nelson. Capt: J. Pryor informs Col: Davies, he has appointed Mr. Reynolds August 21st and Capt: Beard his assistants, as recommended—The former sets out Richmond at 01 ico to collect all the arms in private shops; and he will be glad if
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 350
350 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Capt Beard shall receive his orders as soon as possible—The paymaster August 21st of the State should receive instructions in regard to Mr. Reynolds' wages—The pay of a Conductor is "Forty five Dolls: pr: month." August 21st Mann Page Esqr: informs Col: Davies, ho will use every effort to Mannsfield procure the "Traveling Forges" need, or will give due notice of their being ready. August 21st JOHN KEY TO COL: DAVIES, in regard to his appointment as collector of estrays &c. Albemarle Has received only Sixteen horses and sent them to Capt: Young— Co. They are all he could find, but will continue to search the County. August 22d Rev: John Lyon, petitions the Executive for remission of the sentence Onancock, of the Court Martial lately held for his Trial; giving in substance reasons Accomac Co. heretofore recorded by Col: Corbin, why he should not be punished; and ottering to give any security demanded for his good behavior in the future, so that he may continue to discharge the functions of his office, as desired by a large majority of his Parishioners &c. August 22d JNO. ROBERTSON, D. C. GENL: ISSUES, TO COL: DAVIES. Camp Mun- Colo Febiger informs him he has no salt, and that Colo. Mayo in Man- cocke Hills cnester has some, which may be gotten upon an Order; for "use of the Continent"—That article, bread and spirits are scarce and the army is daily increasing, so that he trembles to think of the consequences unless he is supplied; or allowed money with which to meet the inces- sant demands from every Brigade and "Magazine." August22d COL: J. HOLMES TO COL: DAVIES. Winchester Requesting him to inform the Executive that he has already sent to Philadelphia, by order of the Commissary Genl: of Prisoners, all the naval prisoners, in his charge, "to the number of 118"—He was partic- ular in stating where they were taken, & by whom, so that the State should get full credit for them—Two boxes of cavalry swords & Pistols were sent to his care from Phila., but he had received no orders respect- ing them.
Page 351
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 351 ROBERT MORRIS, TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. 1781. "Sir, August 23d I am but just returned from the Head Quarters of the Commander Office of Fi- in Chief, where I have been for some days, in order to confer with him nance on the various military operations and arrangements, as far as they are connected with the duties of my department. Of consequence, the defence of that valuable part of Virginia now invaded, became much a subject of consideration; and I am happy to inform you that every measure will be pursued for its safety, which is consistent with the general objects of the War. The Force in Virginia ought to be very considerable, for Reasons which it is unnecessary to mention to you, who are so. well acquainted with the country. But it is necessary to observe that the supplies to this Force must be proportionably great. I have already done myself the Honour to transmit to your Excellency an account of the specific supplies which have been required by Congress. Virginia stands debited for the whole, and it is not in my power, perhaps not in yours, to state the credit side of that account—Let, however the amount of the articles furnished, be what it may, this at least is certain, that I have the com- mand of no money from the several States, which will serve to maintain a Force in Virginia—Much therefore must depend on the Provisions and Forage, which that State can call forth—It is necessary for me to inform the General, what Reliance can be made on your Resources; and it is also necessary that this information should be just. Your Excellency must perceive that his arrangements will greatly depend upon my Communications, and therefore you will need no Incite- ment to transmit as soon as possible, the Answers to my Enquiries. Let me then intreat Sir, to know, what quantity of Flour, Beef, and Pork both fresh and Salted, and what quantity of Hay and Indian Corn, or other Forage, can be delivered by the State of Virginia; at what Places, and by what Times—I shall also be happy to be informed whore the Tobacco required of your State is deposited, that I may take proper measures for the Disposal of it. With all possible respect. I have the Honor to be, Your Excellency's Most obedient & humble Servt." Capt: John Pryor informs Col: Davies, of his finding the arms left August 23d by Genl: Campbell, and which should have been carried to Richmond Col. Parishes "up Col: Parish's Stairs in a most horrid condition"—Those fit for ser- vice will be sent to camp, the others to Mr. James' Armorer, living near by, to be repaired as soon as possible—He hopes to find a sufficient
Page 352
352 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. number for the Marquis, at Fredericksburg, so that all collected "in this August 22d quarter" had better be sent to the camp to be found on the South side James River—apprehends great difficulty in obtaining transportation for the arms at Fredericksburg. August 23d COL: J. BANISTER TO THE GOVERNOR. Dinwiddie Desiring instructions as to the treatment to be observed towards "delinquents" in his county—He thinks the lenient policy best, "the execution of penal Laws" contradicting the idea of republican Societies." It were better to secure a considerable body of Militia for two months only, in the field, than with every exertion, get a very small one for six— Desires to know where he is to march the Militia, about one hundred and three, and seven six months men—There are many more out at large, who he hopes to get in. August23d COL: O. TOWLES TO COL: WM. DAVIES. SpoUylvania He is rejoiced to hear, there is a prospect of the Officers obtaining some relief, upon proper representations of their wants being made— This has been done so often before, and they have been kept, so con- stantly "visiting and attending on Governors, Auditors, Treasurers &c &c, without avail, that many "brave and worthy" men have been ruined, and become disgusted by the continued injustice done them. No service could be more beneficial than to afford relief to such. He then draws attention to his own particular case. "Ten months and more have elapsed" since he "fingered any of the public money," and the "scanty pittance" then received "was deficient several thousands," in defraying his necessary expenses—Begs to be informed how he can obtain a sum of money on account of his pay—Encloses return of the clothing furnished by the counties in the District,—and will at some future day lay before the Council a statement of the levies collected and fowarded to Fredericksburg—Concludes—"A correspondent from Lan- caster in Pennsylva, the 17th inst, writes me, that the Reports of that Place, are that his Excy: Genl: Washington is much more formidable than he has ever been heretofore, and intends an attack upon New York—he adds that should it be the case, there is every reason to expect success from the great inferiority of the enemy in that quarter. That the Baltimoreans are making great preparations for the reception of the enemy (that at present infest us) having undoubted intelligence of their hostile intentions against that place—should you have any news in your quarter when this reaches you, be so kind to favor me with it." * * This goes by Express that is to return to me, and will take any letters you may have ready for this Quarter."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 353
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 353 Lists of Sixty three deserters, from "Capt: Hale's company" and 1781. Capt: Haman Critz' Co. August 23d COL: THOS: MATHEWS TO Gov: NELSON. August 23d "Sir, A Letter from the Marquis last Even'g determined me to move Byrds towards Williamsburg with my small party, in order to determine some matters of information, that appeared rather doubtfull. I accordingly moved down, and quartered my party at Allen's 6 miles on this side Wil- liamsburg—I had previously sent an officer & 20 men thro' the woods down to York, in order to alarm the Enemy, at the same time to act as a party of observation and to give the Enemy an Idea of a strong party being in the neighbourhood. A Pickett was advanced on every road leading to the encampment, and the strictest orders given to prevent surprise; but notwithstanding these precautions, the pickett on the road to Williamsburg, sufler'd themselves to be surprised & the enemy to be on us without any previous notice—You must figure to yourself the confusion that prevailed amongst the men, for notwithstanding the exertions of the Officers, they flew with utmost precipitation to the Woods. At present, they come in fast to this place, and I have reason to beleive, I have not lost 20 inen in Killd: Wounded & taken Prisoners— I shall give you a particular Acct: of our loss this Evening—Tarleton commanded the party; they amounted to 400 Dragoons & 200 mounted Infantry. My Stay on the ground was rather long, as I was obliged to run the fire of 5 of them. I am with the greatest Respect Sir, your most obt Servt." Depontiere, Aid do Camp, to Baron Steuben, requests Col: August 23d Davies, to order Capt: Peyton to furnish the Baron's attendants, with Albemarle clothing, they being about to set out for the South. Barracks MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO GOVR NELSON. August 23d "Sir, Not only the helpless situation in which I am continued, from a Near severe spell of sickness, but the suspense in .which I remain respecting Carter>pe what the Executive intend to do for the department of which I have charge, keep me continually in a state of uneasincss. I have made many representations to your Excellency, and written upon many sub- jects, but am unacquainted with your pleasure, and consequently know 45
Page 354
354 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. not what to think, or how to act—The principles by which I have been August 23d actuated in every thing which I have said, or done, were to promote the public interests, and cannot but express the concern which I feel at the little weight which they seem to be of—I flatter myself I have proposed nothing but what was proper, nor said or done any thing which may have invited the least unfavorable sentiment in Council; but should it be the case in cither respect, I readily ask the pardon of the Board, and beg that it may not be construed to my prejudice, as done with design, but from no motive but that of serving the public. One error L acknowledge to, and am sorry that my want of informa- tion led me into it—that of submitting to the judgement of the Execu- tive, the Expenditures of the Quarter Master's Department. I have been made acquainted with this; tho' not officially, and lament that I have been kept ignorant of a thing which so particularly required my attention. tho direction of the Board in this instance, as well as in all others that I may receive, as far as the system under which I act will admit, shall be complied with, as far as lies in my power. Should I again err from a want of the necessary instructions, or in any other manner whatever, and your Excellency, or either of the Honourable Board will be pleased to make me sensible of it, I will remedy it imme- diately—As I am always open to conviction, I am sorry that I had not a friend in Council, who would inform me of the impropriety of my objection; that I might have recalled it, and complied with the request. I hope I have said sufficiently in the above paragraph to convince your Excellency how much it is my desire to discharge the duties required of me, and to act in such a manner as may give pleasure to my superiors and others with whom I may be concerned—At the same time, I beg leave to say something more, respecting the wish of the Board for an examination of my accounts, that the objections I made, may be con- sidered in their proper light. In the first place, I viewed such a thing tautimount to a suspicion of the propriety of my directions with respect to the cash I received—in the next place, that it carried the face of an objection to the issues of . any more for the department, until the judgement was formed, as there was no mention made to the contrary—1 hope this was not the case but while such were my thoughts, I should have been wrong not to have communicated them. It is true my answer might have been written in a more easy stile, but when the Board will be pleased to reflect that there was room for th§ constructions, and not knowing of the authority they had to require such an examination they will find but few, who would have wrote differently—because an honest and faithful agent can- not silently submit to an undue suspicion when he becomes acquainted with it—will not acquiesce to a thing which he might think would be prejudicial to his operations; nor do injustice to his principles, by exposing his accounts—These things I hope will account for my being
Page 355
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 355 BO particular, and have their due weight with your Excellency and 1781. Council. August 23d Altho' my health is restored, it is with difficulty, owing to the pains which I yet feel, that I am lifted from my Bed and Seated in a Chair. Notwithstanding this, I should have made a second attempt to get to Richmond, by being conveyed in a Carriage by Land, or in a Boat down the River, but the Physician who has attended me, and the Gentleman of the house where I am dissuade me, alleging, that should a fever be created again, it would perhaps be more dangerous than that from which I have recovered. I have the honor to be with the highest respect your Excellency's most obt humble Servant." COL: WM. DAVIES TO "Hou: MR. JAMESON IN COUNCIL. August 24th "Sir, As the necessity of attending more strictly to the continental War Office arrangements becomes every day more evident, and as it is of the utmost consequence to have our accounts speedily settled, which cannot be exe- cuted with justice and accuracy, without a thorough acquaintance with the various resolutions of Congress that particularly interest us, and as it will require some time and attention to select them from the Mass of unconnected resolutions, and cannot therefore be executed by Mr. Smith, without considerable delay to his other business, and as a selection of this kind, will be of the utmost utility to all the different branches of government, and enable them, with ease to become possessed of a knowl- edge of all the Continental regulations and rules for the various depart- ments; I am therefore induced, from a conviction of the great conse- quences of it, to request the sanction of government to an appointment of this kind. His pay shall be determined totally by his services—For my part, I am so well convinced of the immediate necessity of it, that should the appointment be left with me, I will be answerable, in the course of two or three months at the utmost, to have the business accu- rately executed in a fair, legible hand: and all the resolutions of Congress relating to any department, regularly and methodically arranged under proper heads. When a work of this kind is brought up to the present date, it can always be continued with great ease. Indeed, I could then have it done in this office, which would be much "better than remaining in the dark. At present however, it will be .impossible for me to do it, but should I be entrusted with the nomination, would afford every information in my power, and would ensure a speedy and skilfull execu- tion of it. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect Your very obedient Servt."
Page 356
356 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Major J. Duval informing Col: Holt Richeson, that sixty three men August 26th from Henry County, have deserted from the third Regiment, in the Sec- ond Brigade of Militia. On this account he is unable to make a proper report &c. August 26th COL: LERoY PEACHY TO Gov: NELSON. Richmond Setting forth the reasons why the militia of his County should be well armed—The Enemy threatens them, and there are "very few fire locks of private property fit for field"—He has only received 120 Stand of Arms from the public stores and more than twenty of these were in bad order,—without cartouch boxes or bayonets—Genl: Weedon, in his tour of the Northern Neck, had informed him he had one thousand stand for distribution, but could not deliver them without an order from the Executive. He therefore entreats to be supplied with about 180, with ammunition &c; can turn out about three hundred men, "who would fight to defend their property"—Asks for a warrant for balance of £7320, bounty money due to recruits, part of which he has become responsible for by advancing it. The clothing due from the County, has long since been delivered to the Q. Master at Fredoricksburg. In regard to the "flag business" he will pay due attention, and desires instructions how one from the Enemy is to be received should it appear, as is com- mon below, upon trifling pretences—Recommends as recruiting officer, Joseph Davenport, a young officer late of the State Troops, who is will- ing to act, but will require money; tho' he begs leave to say "that a Hhd: of paper money would not get a man in this Quarter"—The pub- lic arms sent him were in such bad order, that he desires authority to employ an Armorer, or impress private Smiths Shops to repair them. August 26th COL: J. PARKER TO COL: DAVIES. "Dear Davies, Smithflold I am honored with yours of the 18th—it met mo on my way home from Camp, having retired from military Duty, and never do intend to take up tho same profession in this Country, having done her ample justice—I may now vaunt, because I never expect or will accept of any thing from a Country which I have found ungratefull—I shall ever think myself honored by a correspondence with you, & shall be happy in a continuance of it. More so after I cross tho Atlantic, which will be attempted in a few weeks—previous to which I hope for the pleasure of seeing my old Mess-Mate, at which time, I can say more in Confidence, than I would choose to convey on paper. I can at present say, that when I leave Virginia, there will not one remain, who wishes it better than I do, and few who have done more to serve her, and none who could have been better rewarded for turning
Page 357
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 357 traitor, a character I conceive of monstrous shape, and horrid Idea— 1781. such as will never lay hold on me—all this to yourself. August 26th The Cannon, 12 in number, are left entire at South Quay—8—18 & 4 24-poundors—three others are at Meade's landing, spiked, and one on the road from South Quay to Milners—Norfolk & Portsmouth are more heaps of rubish—there are a number of Horses in the lower Counties, left by the British & stolen from them. would it not be well to have persons in each County appointed to receive them. I have left Colo. Wills in command 'till the .Governor's pleasure is known—Will you signify to Colo. Willis, whether it is the Governor's pleasure he should continue, and empower him to grant certificates for supplies, or whether another person is to releive him. I have a monstrous cold and am very unwell, or should sett off imme- diately to the Marquis & return by Richmond—this will be done as soon as I recover, but I scarcely expect it will be soon, and you will think so to, when I tell you I have not slept without my coat, Hat & Boots since Lord Cornwallis crossed James River untill his Departure from Ports- mouth; my indisposition prevents my saying more, but that I am very Sincerely, your friend & hble Servant." J. PRYOR, "FIELD COM: MIL: STORES" FOR VA TO COL: DAVIES. August 26th The arms found at Parishes in Goochland Co were sent to Capt: Frederic'sb'g Young at Richmond, and by him to Capt: Bourn, for the Camp on South side James River. He can supply the' Marquis from those now on their way from Fauquior Co House—via Raccoon Ford—Six hundred of those rec'd from the Northward with 20,000 Cartridges are reserved for the Militia of Prince William, Loudon & Fauquier Counties: these with what the Militia now have amnt to 1700 muskets in the Ten Counties of Northern Neck—Genl: Weedon wishes the two 4-pounders at Buck- ingham sent over to these Militia. MAJOR RD: ANDERSON TO THE GOVERNOR. August 26th The Marquis informs him Col: Parker has not more than two hundred Ruffln's men under him from the whole eight Counties—The Enemy having left Ferry Portsmouth, Princess Ann and Norfolk Cos: may now join him; and that he has not more than twelve hundred Militia under his own com- mand, notwithstanding the number ordered out: he has not received boats or wagons, either from Capt: Young or Claibprne. * * Col: Mathews was a few days ago surprised and lost twelve or fifteen men: the particulars not yet known.
Page 358
358 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: A. BOHANNAN TO COL: DAVIES. August 26th Culpepper He has just time to write by Mr. Strother, that he this day arrived °' with the last of the stores from Fauquier—Has stored them at this place under guard—He is about to go to look after those at Fredericksburg, but learns Genl: Weedon has issued them to the Militia—He should have had these arms removed long since, but after having with great difficulty collected wagons, he was obliged to give them up to carry stores constantly called for by the Marquis. He has issued the arms for the defence of the Northern Neck, as ordered—the remainder are with him; also medicines, clothing &c—The box of files supposed to be lost, he has found. August 26th COLO JOHN CROPPER JBR TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Dear Colonel, Accomack I have before me your affectionate letter to my uncle Corbin, and thank you for your favorable sentiments of me. It was with the greatest reluctance I quit the army, by the peculiar circum- stances of my family compelled me to it. Indeed you have two letters for his Excellency Governor Nelson and one for yourself from my uncle: after perusing those for his Excellency please Seal & deliver them if convenient. You'll see my sentiments with respect to Mr. Lyons' case, and notwithstanding my uncle's request in his letter, for your intercession in his behalf, was he to lay aside his excessive humanity & tenderness of heart (of which perhaps he has the greatest share of any person living) he would think that a halter was hardly too severe for the parson. In haste, 1 beg leave to refer you to Capt: Walker & the inclosed. Your very respectfull Hum Servt." August 26th Cok Wm. Clayton informs Col: Davies, that as the County has never New Kent been "laid off into Divisions" owing to the Militia being constantly in 0°' the field during the late Invasions, and the Officers being unable on this account to perform this duty, he is not able to make proper return of the clothing Ac due the State. August 26th MAJOR RICH'D McCALL, SD REGT: L. DRAGOONS TO COL: DAVIES. Powhatsn Giving the condition of such part of the 1st and 3d Regts: Dragoons as are in Virginia,—also a report from Lt: Colo Washington in regard to those with the Southern Army. Unless furnished with clothing they cannot possibly take the field this Winter—They are deficient in men,
Page 359
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 359 but this should not preclude their being supplied with clothing, in as 1781. much as the Marquis, and Baron Steuben assure him they shall have August 26th men, as soon as horses and accoutrements &c are procured—Ho is informed by an Officer just from Frederick Town Maryland, that the "Horse appointments" engaged there by Mr. Nicholson are nearly ready—Not more than ten saddles, twenty swords and as many caps of those carried off by the Volunteers, have been recovered—Col: White informs him, the three hundred sides of leather referred to, and brought in by the people, have been made into shoes, halters &c for his Regt. ARCHIBALD RITCHIE TO Gov: NELSON. August 26th "HonbleSir, A certain Mr. Joell was in this place the 21st June ultimo, Tappahan- a pretended Aid to General Weedon, when there was a certain Capt: n Carrey & his crew in this Goal, taken in a small Privateer from Ports- mouth, nigh this place—Carrey obtained Leave of the Officer of the Guard, to send a messenger to Urbanna with a Letter to Mr. Simon Fraser, by that same messenger, I wrote to my old friend Mr. James Mills a Letter, a Copy of which, I am informed has been before you & the Honble Council—Mr. Fraser not being at home Mr. Mills wrote me of the 20th, which has beon before you also—this Letter our Co. Lieut- enant asked me to show him, which I freely did—on the sight of it, ho Loaded both Mr. Mills and myself with Invectives not becoming any Gentleman—this Letter he shewed to the foresaid Mr. Joell, who imme- diately proposed that all my papers should be seized, to which the Colo. of the County Acquiesced & they were accordingly sciz'd and sealed up; in which condition they now Lay—some of which I am much in want of & on that Account have apply'd to the County Lieutenant, that some Gentlemen might be appointed to examine them—his reply was that he never had received any orders respecting them: Therefore I now apply to your Honour (for which I hope you will Excuse mo for breaking in upon you, when you must at this time have affairs of much more conse- quence before you) to order some Gentleman to Examine my Papers, and return them to mo, for as my character is in some degree affected, I do not wish to be possessed of them again, without their being looked into. I have the honor to be Sir, Your most obt Servt." COLO. JOHN CROPPER JNR: TO Gov: NELSON. August 26th "Sir, My appointment to the Lieutenancy of this County (by order of Accomack your Excellency in Council, signified to me by letter from Colonel Wil- °°'
Page 360
360 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Ham Davies of 23d ultimo) makes it my duty to inform you of the fol- August 26th lowing particulars— I find that only twenty five, out of seventy four divisions have fur- nished their men under the late law, and there is great complaint on the part of these, that the delinquent divisions arc not compelled to furnish their men also; Col: Corbin, the late Lieutenant delayed the draft, and never compelled these delinquent divisions to furnish their men, which in my opinion, has been of great injury to the County, and if not done, will be a just cause of making the zealous citizens hereafter back- ward in the service of his Country, and the obedience of its laws. The acts of assembly for raising cloaths and provisions for the use of the Army have not yet reached this Shore, and perhaps no part of the State is more able, or more willing to comply with them—this Shore has long been kept in ignorance, and exposed to the designing reports of the disaffected, for want of a due promulgation of the Laws. Our militia arc in the most undisciplined state; many of our public guns and muskets have been sold, lent or stolen for the use of private (.commerce; and the remaining few do not appear as if they were for the purpose of war—the Ammunition has shared the same, or worse fate, for want of which the County is almost defenceless; therefore, if it was possible, I shou'd be glad to have by this opportunity, two or three bar- rels of powder, a proportion of lead for musketry, and a quantity of Cartridge Paper; for other warlike articles I would do the best in my power, by fitting up the Arms, and collecting the cannon shot from pri- vate families—there is scarcely a fishing canoe that does not carry two or throe in her grapnel; and the public property has been generally thought free & legal plunder. One of the field pieces was stolen from its carriage in the night and put on board a vessel belonging to one William Garrison, a man of con- siderable property in this County, and notwithstand'g repeated informa- tion was 'made the Lieutenant, the gun to be come at, the identity easily proven, yet proceedings ncver were had on the matter, altho' almost every body were crying out "for shame"— Well wishers to the State hoped there would be some punishment of abuses committed upon the public property, particularly in plundering the gallies, when the three Commissioners were appointed to examine into the State of the Accomack and Diligence gallies, laying on our shore—but the only good purpose I can find they answered, was to lend out the arms and stores: some to the State of Maryland, and some to tho individuals of this and other States for the protection of private trade, while a new barge, commissioned by the State for Capt: Outten, laying at Onancock, cannot possibly get out, for want of those articles, which Colo Corbin was order'd by government to supply him with. Your Excellency will please to pardon me for making free with the reputed first gentlemen amongst us, and of my first friends & relations, but
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 361
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. . 361 such has beon the conduct of public affairs in Accomack, therefore it 1781. becomes mo to speak the truth, offend who it will. Aucust 26th I am requested by the friends to government in this county, to testily to your Excellency, their sincere thanks for your kind attention to this shore, in obtaining permission for the Eighteen Months' Men, and other soldiers to remain here for their protection; and to assure you further, that tho news of your filling the first post of honour in their State, dif- fused a universal joy & satisfaction throughout Accomack County. I am, your Excellency's most respectfull, hum: Servant." JOHN BARCLAY TO Gov: NELSON. August 26th Offering his services as agent for tho State of Virginia, Congress Philadelphia having appointed him to attend to certain commercial adventures in France, for which country he is about to embark &c. COL: JOHN CROPPER JNR TO Gov: NELSON,—by Capt: Levin Watkins. August 26th "Sir, Previous to my coming into Office, the Late Lieutenant embodied, Accomack and stationed for the protection of the county what substitutes were ^°' furnished, and put them under tho command of Capt: Thomas Parker of the Army, a young gentleman of good character—also a volunteer Troop of horse have assembled under the command of Capt: Thomas Parramore—this corps is chiefly composed of single young gentlemen, and they are gentlemen of the first fortunes and characters among us: ever since their appointments they have been on constant duty, under which they have shewn a most cheerful obedience to the strictest disci- pline, and do in my opinion, render very essential service—They have bound themselves in honor to serve for a certain time, during which they are to do constant duty. they are mounted and cquipt afcthoir own expence. all they ask of the publick is provisions & forage while on duty, which indulgence I hope will meet your Excellency's approbation. I have consulted most of the principal gentlemen in this county and they join mo in opinion, that fifty of the regular Soldiers will be suffi- cient for a stationed force in this County, and that the other twenty four, when raised, may be sent to the army, as our wish is to take as few as possible from its numbers. It is tho opinion also that we can furnish the Army with all the beef required by Law." * * * "A physician lives convenient to Capt: Parker's Station, and has attended his men—he says he wou'd Continue to do so at a moderate allowance." ****** 46
Page 362
362 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. As to the case of the Rev: John Lyon, I beg leave to make the fol- August 26th lowing observations. There was not so much in testimony against him as was expected, but from .character he is certainly a very bad man. He has undoubtedly long and constantly traded with the Enemy—a vessell of his in that trade, was taken and made prize of by a Philadel- phia barge, and I wou'd risque whatever property depends on me, that it might yet be proven that not long since, he himself delivered a cargo of oats & provisions to the British Commissary at Portsmouth—The disaffected of his neighborhood (the best acquainted with his political character) absolutely will not give testimony against him, and the (Inoffensive Whig, in the character of a peasant, is actually afraid of the , parson's influence to destroy him. He has married into a good family, thro' which the few persons of good character have signed the petition drawn in his favor—Every body is sorry for the family but I beleive his greatest advocate cannot but acknowledge him, a man of very bad private, as well as publick character. I beg leave to offer it to your Excellency as my sincere and unprejudiced opinion, that the people will not, with their consent, permit Mr. Lyon to remain in their Parish, and at the same time, that they wish no further punishment, than for him never to be seen again in the county, after a reasonable time to settle his affairs." With great respect I am &c." August 26th THOS: ANDERSON, COM: OF PROVISIONS, TO COL: DA VIES. Buckingham The Orders respecting the estrays have been executed, by due notice being given to private persons, and public advertisements over the county. Many horses have been taken up, which he will send to Capt Young and due account thereof rendered—Desires further instructions as to supplying Capt: Bohannan's men—As to employing Boatmen, he can hire a number of negroes, accustomed to the navigation of the River, cheaper than he can get white men, or those who propose to put in a negro and get exemption from military duty—Continues "If you approve of hiring or engaging negroe watermen, I would recommend to you, to have a large Canoe made for each hand & lay them off into Brigades of 10 or 12 each, & Imploy a good, Industrious white man to overlook them & take charge of their lading &c. These Canoes will answe'r the River Service, as high up as this, much better than Bat- teaux—for the many Rapid Falls between Point Fork & Irving's Store will render it very difficult for them to pass heavy Loaded, whereas the Canoes can go a trip from said Store to Westham & back again, every Ten days, & each Canoe and hand carry down 5000 lbs & bring in return up 2000 lbs, & may go where the Batteaux cannot for want of water— These Canoes may be made this way, very speedily, and if it is only to
Page 363
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. carry the Flower which is ordered to be procured in the upper Counties, 1781. it will be worth while to have them done" &c—He encloses a list of August 26th proper "Characters for Cattle Drovers," approved by the County Lieutenant, and asks that exemptions from mil: duty be issued for them, and inform him what their wages are to be—As Paper is very scarce, ho begs for authority to draw some from Capt: Bohannan. Jno Pierce Asst: C. Genl: informing him he has sent hitf instructions August 26th to the Commissioner of Provisions of King & Queen Co to assist in pro- Camp curing all he can collect for the troops—Mr. Robertson has informed him that six hundred men are to assemble at once, near Petersburg. He has sent out directions to Commissioners of Dinwiddio, Prince George and Chesterfield to furnish subsistence for them. ED: RUFFIN JNR: TO Gov: NELSON. August 26th Colo Senf appears so anxious to complete the "Fortress at Hoods," Camp King and deeming it advantageous to employ the quota of the Prince George iam Militia for this purpose, ho urges that those now in the field whose terms will soon expire be allowed to do this work, in place of the service in the field—By this method the Fortress can be finished before the "hard frosts set in,"—and as he lives but a few miles from the place, he will cheer- fully do all in his power to "promote the Business." COL: JOHN HICKMAN TO CHAS: RUSSELL D. Q. M—&c. August 26th He has received his Express, requiring the County to furnish its quota King Wil- of clothing &c—But he has orders from the Executive not to draft the Militia or collect clothing untill further Orders, in view of the frequent invasions of the Encmy—The Enemy are close by, at this time, and he is obliged to furnish a double number of men. Jos. SPENCER TO THE EXECUTIVE. August 27th Praying for permission to send Tobacco by the "Flag" going to Orange Co. Charleston, to pay debts contracted there by Genl: Scott on account of himself and the Continental Officers of the Va. Line, while prisoners of war. He had been a prisoner at Edisto, was captured in the militia at Gates' defeat, but not being in the regular service Genl: Scott could not allow him the releif sent for the Continental troops—He had to apply to Gentlemen of that city therefor, and received aid, through their kind-
Page 364
364 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. ness—This indebtedness he now desires to acknowledge and be allowed August 27th to remove—Having heard of various slanders and reports detrimental to his conduct at the disastrous defeat of Gates, he earnestly desires to know what steps he shall take to have the matter fully investigated. August 27th COL: CHAS: DABNEY TO COL: DA VIES. Goochland He has colkscted one hundred and twenty four State Troops, and sev- enty one six months men at that place, but knows not how many there are at the other places of rendezvous. Hopes to got a large number of six months men—has enlisted seven men for the war—Asks for an Order for Over-alls and clothing for the State Troops, who are almost naked—Ho cannot drill the troops without arms, and is anxious to get enough for a regiment, so that they may be prepared soon to take the field. August 27th Chas: Thomas informs Col: Davies, the leather for the harness and Warwick Collars will be ready in a few weeks. August 27th COL: JAS: BARBOUR TO COL: DAVIES. Culpcper He has delivered the wagon purchased by the County for the Army, to Q. Master Young at Fredoricksburg; has sent the six months men to Capt: Peyton at Albemarle Barracks—He can send to the field throe hundred and fifty two men, and desires to know whether the whole of these, or one fourth are now required. August 27th Capt: J. Pryor informs Col: Davies, the arms from the Northward Frodoric'sb'g via Fauquier have at last arrived,—those with what he finds in the Fac- tory amount to 600 stand, and 50,000 Musket Cartridges, which will suf- fice for tho Marquis—He has appointed Mr. Wm. Frazer Conductor of Mil: Stores and sent him to Fauquior Co House to report to Capt: Bohannan. This Officer will take charge of the residue of the arms over to Wesham to equip tho Troops on the So: Side Jas: River—Tho extra amount of ammunition, cannon &c. from the North he has sent to Orange Ct House for safety, "this being a Continental matter" and Mr. Jones having requested him to do so. August 27th Col: Turner Southall informs Mr. Chas: Russel D. Q. M., that he is Henrico not expected to furnish the clothing required until it is collected; and
Page 365
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 365 this .duty attaches to the first Justice of the County Isaac Young- 1781. husband, who will doubtless, upon application to him, give proper reasons August 27th why it has not been done. CHAS: RUSSELL, D. Q. MASTER, TO COL: WM. DA VIES. August 27th It is out of his power to forward supplies without transportation and Richmond he has only two wagons, which are now engaged in hauling forage for this post, which employs them exclusively. He has been obliged to mount the Boats on Wagon Carriages; has sent Flour to General Wayne and two hundred thousand weight of Bacon; will send the remainder to the Marquis—Has written to all the Commissioners in the district to furnish him wagons, but has heard nothing from them. CAPT: JOHN BALLARD JUR: TO COL: DA VIES. August 27th Reporting the number of horses he has collected, from those left by Lunenhurg Col: Tarleton in the County—He could have gotten more, but the peo- plo having heard of the action of the Council had anticipated him, and gotten possession of many—Only seven so far secured—Many have been carried off and sold—Many citizens have horses left by Tarloton, in exchange for those he carried off, and they therefore are determined not to give them up—Rev: Mr. James Craig has several, which he begs to be allowed to retain, in as much as he lost .nine—Asks for instructions, as to what he is to do to "the scoundrels" who steal them and carry them off—also how ho is to proceed against those who refuse to become accountable for them in their possession—Ho charges 300 Dolls: for' his services. J. Bouno gives reasons to Col: Davies, why he has collected so few August 27th arms—Farris delivered only thirty seven muskets, because he had to Qoochland shoe Col: White's horses—James has delivered thirty two, and had C- H- already sent forty eight to Charlottesville—Gideon's men have all been sick, consequently not able to work on them. The Marquis will be dis- appointed at such small receipts. M. CHEVALLIE, TO Gov: HENRY OF VA. August 27th Bringing letters of recommendation, with the view of pressing the New York claim of his father, against the State of Virginia, as the agent of M. de Beaumarchais; he having acted as supercargo in a vessel whose cargo was bought by the State, and paid for, in part with Tobacco—but leav- ing a balance still due of "5420 Pounds hard money" &c.
Page 366
366 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Jolly Parish incloses to Col: Davies a list of horses collected by him, August 28th which are supposed to have belonged to the British—The people claim Goochland many of them; and refuse to give up those they have in possession— Some owners have proved their property in many and he felt obliged to surrender them. August 28th Jno: Lightfoot informs Col: Davies, that he has on hand a large quan- Albemarle tity of leather at the Public Tan Yard, but for want of a currier to dress I • 1 Barrac it, cannot make it available. August 28th BERRYMAN GREEN TO COL: DAVIES. Richmond In regard to furnishing Col: Dabney's Troops—By the last returns, there are on hand about one hundred and Sixty Tents, an equal number of Camp Kettles & about four or five hundred Knapsacks—Major Clai- borne has promised to forward the Kettles to the Southern Army, and most of the knap-sacks have been assigned to Col: Febiger's Troops— He is about to communicate with Major Claiborne upon other matters and will make further enquiries on this head—He has no Axes or other Camp equippage, on hand—Mr. Hunter's Works are the only depend- ance for these latter, and but few to be gotten there. August 28th ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL M. D. TO COL: DAVIES. Point Requests to be allowed to keep, for a time, a horse he took up after the British left that place—He has suffered seriously himself in this mat- ter, having two of his horses in the cavalry and one taken by Tarleton, and is obliged to put his riding horse to the Plough—Having been appointed by the Surgeon Genl: to take charge of the sick and wounded in his neighborhood, he considers himself in the service, and feels war- ranted in making this request—The last horse taken from him, was a very valuable one: was taken by Col: Parker's men, without giving him either "certificate or valuation"—The horse he desires to keep was ''brought from Ninety-Six." August 28th MAJOR RD: McCALL TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Sir, Powhatan Your favour of the 26th Inst: rec'd & thank you for communicating your observations on the Dress of the Dragoon who carried my dis- patches, as it affords me an opportunity of explaining what undoubtedly appeared as a glaring instance of neglect & likewise of asscribing causes why errors happened, should there be any.
Page 367
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 367 The Dragoon had on, instead of a coat, what among Cavalry is called 1781. a stable-jacket; it being exactly of the very length & shape, with proper August 28th Cuff & Cape for Stable Dress: under that Column was 44 good & 8 bad of the Third Regt., 15 of those returned good, would I really beleivo by most other officers have been returned unfit for Service, being originally made out of a coarse Kind of Shalloon or Serge, arc now mostly thread- bare & will not hold together much longer." * * * "With respect to the man Mr. Thornton sent, I do not know whether his was a coat or Stable Jacket, he being on Command at the time I made out the return, as well as 20 others, all which I returned fully cloathed except those whom I knew destitute of some few articles"— * * "it was my most ardent wish as well as my duty to lay before government a just & true representation of the Regt.—"It is a maxim with me to hide from Public view, as much as possible the wants or wretched appearance of the Regt:, for which reason, whenever Commands or Expresses are sent out (especially in the latter case) to take such men as make the most decent appearance, & although I had objects of distress, without any other covering than a cap & shirt, the latter torn in several places, yet 1 should have thought myself guilty of great indelicacy & indeed presumptive ostentation to present at the State House, with public dispatches such a spectacle. The Waistcoat which my Dragoon had on, was not Regimental or public property—one which he, by some means had procured for him- self—of such there are several in the party, as well as some few articles among the waiters, furnished them by the Officers they attend—which not being public property, were not included in the Return. I believe that Bridles, Halters, Stirrup Irons and Curry Combs might shortly be got of Mr. Hunter at Fredericksburg, & part of almost all the articles wanted, might be made at Winchester, provided the workmen could have any certain prospect of getting speedy payment—& all the other articles might be made in two or three months at Phila & Lan- caster, or the other manufacturing Towns in Pennsylvania & Maryland." ***** "The Light Infantry acting with Colo Washington at present, are a detachment from the Line. In the Regulations for the Army published last year by Congress, each Rogt: of Cavalry is to become Legionary Corps, consisting of 4 Troops horse of 60 Rank & file each, & two Com- panies, Light Infantry of the same strength." * * * "I am unfeignedly thankful for your advice & shall always entertain a grateful remembrance of whatever you may hereafter please to bestow; as it is my wish to do that which is wright, the most certain way of approaching it is, by being informed when I am wrong. With increased regard & perfect respect, I am, Sir, Yr: most obt Servt."
Page 368
368 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: CHAS. DABNEY TO COL: WM. DAVIES. August 29th Gooohland Ho has two hundred men already collected ready for service, but the '' State Troops are so badly provided with Clothes they are not fit for the field—Thinks it best not to draw their winter clothing, but wishes to get shirts, over-alls & shoes for them—Would be glad to get money suffi- cient to enlist about one hundred men by the Fall—and will retain the funds in his own hands, to be paid out as the men are enlisted, and not given to the Officers. August 29th CAPT: LEVIN JOYNES TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Accomack Requesting to be furnished with an Order for Five thousand pounds of Tobacco; that amount having been voted each of the Officers who were then Prisoners with the Enemy, by the Genl: Assembly, and he having never received his—although application had been made for it through Mr. Henry Armistead. August 29th Rd: Yarborough informs Col: Davios ho has collected fifty two horses, Dinwiddie and there remain about twelve more secreted—Asks for instructions in Co. this matter—He has delivered the horses to Capt Young, furnished him a register of them and taken receipts—The Expense of this duty belongs to the Quarter Master's department; and ho will submit to any allow- ance thought sufficient for his services. August 29th James McHenry informs Col: Davies "the General has no objection Ruffin's to granting a warrant for carrying on the tannery at Albemarlo" pro- Ferry vided tQe state of the Treasury will allow it, and the shoes, in a proper proportion, be subject to his control. August 29th JERMAN BAKER TO "HONBLE MR. JAMISON." Chesterfield Introducing Mr. Duncan, who goes to Richmond to obtain compensa- tion for horses improperly taken from him—He is glad of this opportu- nity of affording him the pleasure of "removing a just cause of com- plaint, the frequency of which has given more real disgust to the people at large, than any other Act, which necessity has compelled the Govern- ment to adopt, & which has generally proceeded from the licentious & insulting conduct, two generally practiced by the military."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 369
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 369 COL: D. FISHER TO COL: WM. DAVIES. 1781. August 29th He has lately rec'd a number of papers, with the covers broken, which Greensville had evidently been opened and read. He mentions this, that measures may be taken to prevent this "inordinate practice" much increasing— The orders referring to the recovering the public arms, &c—the letter in regard to the private arms; the instructions to appoint assistants to the Commissioners of the Provision Law, ho will give attention to at once— But ho cannot carry out the demand for the clothing in as much as the County of Brunswick being four times the strength of Greenesvillo, claims the controlling power in this matter and in raising the State's quota for the Continental Line—Col: Mason who will deliver this, will be glad to receive instructions, as to the necessity of the two Counties acting as one. ROB'T CREW TO COL: WM. DAVIES. August 30th He got over to Pungoteago on the 20th, but was so unfortunate as to Acoomack lose all his papers and letters at the entrance of the harbor, owing to his having beon chased by two barges and a sloop from Baltimore. He and other passengers put their effects into one canoe, with a man to take them ashore, but it was unfortunately upset, and the papers being "fixed for sinking" were unavoidably lost. He has however seen most of the gentlemen to whom the letters were addressed, and they assure him he shall have every assistance in expe- diting the business ho is charged with, so that the loss of the papers will not cause much delay. Colo. Cropper, the Co. Lieutenant sent a man with letters of his own who will carry this—He has written to Mr. Ross by way of Hobshole— The Affairs in this county and Northampton are in a much better situa- tion than they have been for some time—Capt Parker commands a small company of regulars, and there is a Troop of Horse in each County—No person now dares to resist the drafts, or the collection of taxes—The generosity of the people are well disposed, and the late disturbances arose from the feeble manner in which the late officers have acted, and "from their neglecting to suppress in time, a few factious men who had influence with the lower sot of people"—A vessel is just arrived, whoso Captain says he sailed out of "Cape Francois on the 6th or 7th August, in company with a Fleet of French Ships, of "25 Sail of the line, and transports with 10,000 Troops," said to be bound to Havanna—&c. 47
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 370
370 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. David floss informs Col: Davies, he has just purchased 2000 pds: August 30th Sugar, 1500 of Coffee, & 300 of Tea—of which he will reserve as much Richmond as shall be needed, for the use of the Hospitals, and desires to know how much "he thinks proper to reserve." August 30th CAD: JONES, AID-DE-CAMP, TO MAJOR CLAIBORNE—(Copy.) "Sir, You are to have all the boats that are at Richmond sent down to Hinge's Ferry, with the utmost dispatch. If the Gun Boat is not got up, have her raised and sent down also; by express orders from Major General Marquis Lafayette, who desires that they may be sent down with the greatest expedition. 1 am, your Humble Servant." August 30th CAPT: J. PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Hanover Informing him of his having gotten so far on his way to Camp, and Town repeating the account before given of the disposition of the arms sent from Fauquier Co. House, including the Six hundred stand for the Mar- quis, those for the Camp to be found on So: Side James River, and those left at Carter's Ferry. August 30th GENL: Ro: LAWSON TO COLO DAVIES. "Dear Sir, Pr. Edward From your favor of the 20th Inst:, I am sorry to find that Genl: Green must be strongly reinforced from this State or N. Carolina to enable him to retain possn of a Country, which he has regained with so much toil & perseverance—Tho' at the same time you omit to inform mo whether the Militia heretofore ordered out, will actually march or not? I confess the suspence gives me some anxiety; as I certainly should have been in camp long since had it not been owing to the Letters receiv'd from Government, that I thought it my duty to wait—I must now entreat you to be explicit on this head—I should suppose as the weather is now more favorable to such a march, than when the orders first came out, the objection on that account would subside:" * ***** Most of the Counties Order'd out have furnished men to complete my Brigade below, which I find is exceedingly diminish'd in consequence of their being order'd to Genl: Greene—I must beg you once again to favor
Page 371
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 371 me the with the news—especially as I have been amus'd with a report 1781. which gains credit here, that Gl: Washington had got posso. of King's August 80th Bridge with a considerable loss. I have the honor to be, With great respect, Dr. Sir." GOV'R THOMAS BURKE TO GOV'R NELSON OF VA. August 30th "Sir, In my last, which was dated the 15th of this month, I informed Halifax, you of my Intention to visit the Sea Ports of this State in order to encour- age the Importation of Salt. I have been at Edenton, from where I am Just returned, and have given the Mercantile People such assurances of protection and punctual payment as has restored their confidence in the Public, and they have assured me, that they will in future direct their commerce towards furnishing the necessary supplies. The time which I could spare, was so short, that they could not digest particular plans and Engagements, but such as are to be transmitted to me without delay. Free and liberal principles are alone such as will revive our commerce and give us supplies in abundance. The property of the Commercial adven- turer must not be wrested from him by power, nor must the payments be refused or delayed—the former renders profits and property so preca- rious as to destroy the spirit of adventure, the latter renders the mer- chant unable to prosecute his adventures by witholding the means— Convinced of this, I have assured the Merchants that no Impressments shall be suffered, and that they shall be paid in produce for whatever they shall furnish to the publick—Your merchants may be assured of the same Protection as ours, and if ours can supply your wants, I shall most cheerfully assist by every means in my power—I shall immediately give orders for purchasing all the Salt which can be found in Such Ports of this State as can be secured from the Enemy; but while they are among . us, and are able to supply and put in motion so many disaffected, no one place is secure, and no works can be carried on—They have lately visited Newborn, from whence largo supplies of Salt were usually drawn, and it is much to be feared that they intend destroying our Salt works on the Sea Coast. I expect General Wayne here every day, and if I can prevail on him to assist us for a little time, I make no doubt of destroying our Internal Encmies root and branch: this will be an essential service, because it will leave this State then at full liberty to employ all her exertions in the common cause, which must otherwise be diverted against those mis. creants—In truth Sir, our Sea Ports which are at present so important, will be rendered almost useless, unless we can be freed from this pest— and so entirely unprepared are we, that we cannot suppress them with-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 372
372 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. out much lapse of time, if left to our own efforts altogether. I have August 30th had no letter from you since I left Nutbush, and as I have left a Gentle- man there to transmit any that might arrive, I suppose none have arrived. This will be delivered by Mr. Hawkins, one of our Delegates, who is on his way to Congress—he will inform you of the progress of the Enemy, and every thing which is current in this State, and I have at present no particular Intelligence. I am Sir, with the highest Esteem and regard, Your very Obedt Servt." August Slst RICH: BANKS TO THE GOVERNOR. Hobbs' Hole Interceding for "Thos: Probert a prisoner at Hanover Ct House, sent there by Col: Wm. Roano with Capt Carey and others from this place, for merely carrying a letter from Mr. Ritchie to Mr. Mills, and on his return from Urbana, bringing a reply to the same. August 3lst Tnos: CLEMENTS, COMM: P. LAW,—TO COL: DAVIES. Southampt'n He has complied with the Orders in regard to collecting estray horses and cattle belonging to the Enemy, and after-a diligent search has not found any in his district—Will continue the search—Asks for a few more assistants, because of the extent of his District. August 3lst BERRYMAN GREEN TO COL: DAVIES. Richmond Promising him every assistance from his Department in complying with the Marquis' requisitions. By the next day at noon, Expresses will be ready to communicate with all the Posts in the Department, and he is preparing a Circular to his Assistants urging every effort on their part towards fowarding supplies to the Army—&c. The want of funds obliges him to ask for an Order on Colo Southall for a party of Militia, say twenty four men, to report to Capt: Russell for the purpose of carry- ing six boats to Minge's Ferry by Order of the Marquis—These boats may take with them a considerable supply of provisions. Unless this be done the business cannot be executed. These men may be kept employed, and thereby be allowed credit for a term of duty.
Page 373
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 373 COL' THOS: GASKINS TO COL: WM. DAVIES. He has been awaiting the arrival of the linnen and shoes—Mr. Stokely will give his rec't for "106 pr: shoes" all he got. The linnen was left at Mr. Rinald (Ryland) Randolphs—subject to orders—The wagon sent, was taken by Doctor Monro to remove the sick, left at Mal- vern Hills, to the Hospital at Hanover Town. Begs the linnen may be made up at once "into shirts & over-alls" as the men are greatly in want of clothing, the greatest part of the Regiment so ragged, that "many of the soldiers are almost reduced to a state of nature"—He should have represented this state of things long ago, but has been depending upon Col: Febiger's promises to give him releif. 1781. August Slst Camp MAJOR D. STEVENSON 6TH VA. REGT: TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 1st "Sir, I have been informed that Government has agreed to pay off the Richmond debts contracted by the Officers while in captivity in South Carolina, particularly that for which Genl: Scott was security. As I am sure Government designs no partiality to her officers, I have collected the amount of the accounts of a number of them, which 1 take the liberty of transmitting to you, in order to let you see, that unless some adequate allowance is made, injustice will be done to those who have con- tracted but small debts, as well as to those who have contracted none (of which last number I am one)—I must also inform you that a consid- erable part of the Bills sent by the State for the immediate releif of the prisoners, was applied to the credit of the account for which Genl: Scott was security, altho' several of them had received no part of it—I have now to request you to represent the matter to Government, and have their opinion on it, as soon as possible, as it will by no means suit me to continue long in Town." I have the honor to be &c." Berry: Green, informs Col: Davies, that the Military Stores referred Sept. 1st to a few days before had not been appropriated as he supposed. "The Richmond tents: Knapsacks, camp Kettles and 1200 Havre Sacks" could be at once furnished to the Marquis' Troops. Jno. Allen sends by Peter Turner in a canoe 11796 cartridges, eight Sept. 1st barrels & three boxes; 12 cartridges in. a package—I will send 15000 Irvin's Store more by the first opportunity—The repaired arms to be sent as soon as the boxes to contain them are ready.
Page 374
374 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. DAVID Rosa TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 1st "Sir, Richmond Agreeable to your Excellency's desire, I have wrote to Mr. Brown, respecting sale of provisions, and sent him a copy of the Estimate, which is but a rough caleulation—You'll observe the supplies proposed to be drawn from the several Countye, of Flour alone, exceeds the supposed consumption of the Fleet & Army—I am pretty well convinced, such quantities cannot be procured at once, the demand is so sudden and unex- pected. I would therefore recommend to your Excellency to make use of Indian Meal, at least as much as I have caleulated upon—this will bo readily procured very agreeable to our militia and many of the Conti- nental Troops. I am satisfied it will be in the power of the Country Mills to find a suf- ficient number of barrels in time—I think it would bo well to permit them to use hhds: where they cannot procure blls: especially for meal. I would also advise all the Flour & Meal to be Inspected at the land- ings by men of Integrity, which will be the best security to prevent bad flour, false packing & short weight. The present demand is so great, that it will recquirer the utmost exer- tions to comply with it in due time, and I think very much depends on the peoples having confidence in Governt. making them adequate pay- ment. Many of them have suffered exceedingly already, and I take the liberty of advising you to give them the most ample satisfaction on this head. if the people exert themselves you may expect great matters— but if the mills are to be impressed and grain impressed, I fear it will be attended with great expence, great delays and create a kind of sham employment for a number of idle men that might be better employed. I suppose the French will pay for all the Flour & Provisions they have. We shall want Bills of Exchange very much to remit to Mr. Penet for the public debts due there—if your Excellency can with propriety order matters so with the French Consul that the supplies go through the pub- lick, we may secure the Bills, which will be a great convenience to us at this time—I will wait upon the French Consul if necessary. I am with the greatest respect Your very humble Servant &c &c." Sept. 1st THOS: ANDERSON TO COL: DAVIES, by the Canoe carrying down ammu- nition. Buckingham Informing him that buildings cannot be gotten in that neighborhood at once for the reception of Public Stores. The houses formerly used for storing tobacco are all pulled to pieces. He has, almost completed,
Page 375
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. . 375 several large bouses, which he will cheerfully let the Government use, 1781. provided his Brick-layer be not ordered off in the militia and he can got Sept. 1st a few nails, which he can pay for in Iron or Meal, and which cannot be gotten at all in that County—These houses are situated on a Hill within a few hundred yards of a good landing on the River, half a mile from the Main Road and two miles from Irving's Store, "whore the Ferry across James River & Rock Fish River is"— He should expect strict regulations to be enforced at this Post, so that bis surrounding property should not be depredated upon—Invites Col: Davies Up to see the premises for himself. COL: TURNER SOUTHALL TO COL: DAVIES, in reply. Sept. 1st He had never objected to the militias being employed in the Q. Mas- ter's department, provided the County from which they go has credit for them—Is satisfied his County has furnished its full quota, but will order out the one fourth men required, and ho may be relied upon to keep the number up to requirements. MAJR: R. CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 1st He will furnish the Return of tho articles furnished the Infantry and Richmond Cavalry raised in tho State, as soon as possible. The Quarter Master of the Army, with whom ho keeps his accounts, disposes of all articles delivered to him, consequently ho will be delayed in rendering the account desired, until that officer can furnish him the data necessary. ***** He will continue to exert every possible endeavour towards securing the success of any measure of Government. But Agents who have "no means and consequently little or no credit" cannot be expected to do, what they would otherwise cheerfully attempt. He makes this remark in justice to himself and officers and to the Country. CAFT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 1st "Dear Sir, Your small letter in answer to mine from Jolly Parish' I just Head Quar- received. The letter 1 wrote you by Capt Lawson, I presume must p'j.9 Holt's have given you some light into Genl: Weedon's regulations. the 1000 men with arms the Marquis means to call from the Northn Neck will leave no more than the quota you proposed for that district. What arms or other military stores were sent on by Capt: Bohannan and detained by Genl: Weedon I know not. I was apprehensive that
Page 376
376 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Issues had been made from Fredericksburg by order of Genl: Weedon, Sept. 1st as for instance some arms sent to Leed's Town which I suppose are those mentioned to be received by Col:'Lee at Westmoreland." * * "I could wish most sincerely that a certain mode was adopted and made generally known to prevent those interferences you mention. As the arrival of Military Stores from the Northward for this State have been SO irregular from their not being brought farther on than the Virga lino & then left liable to many accidents and interfering orders: suppose that a line of communication was settled on, and a Com'r Mil: Stores stationed at a certain post to receive & forward them on agreeable to particular orders ho might have, & to no others? The Marquis requesting that Richmond should become a Magazine I must appoint a person to attend there—those muskets & cannon cart- ridges wch I directed to Orange C. Ho, I must beg that Capt Young would send for them, and at the same time facilitate the arrival of the arms under care of Mr. Frazor, wch are much wanted—Powder and Lead being much wanted for the Rifle Men, I have sent Mr. Maupin to Charlottesville to hurry it down—I understand that some lead is at Richmond, amongst it some damagd cartridges, from which the balls may be separated and sent down with the lead. Capt Young I hope will have this done, and sent down with the greatest expedition—I congratu- late you on the arrival of the French Fleet." I am Dr Sir, with the highest respect &c. P. S. Last throe letters just rec'd—He has written to Capt: Bohan- nan, at Fauquier Co House to get some one to take charge of the 600 arms there; to send Frazor to Wosthum with the balance—The spare arms at Orange Co H. to be sent to Richmond. A vessel might be got- ten in which Frazer could bring them down to supply the Militia camps at Black-water & elsewhere—The 300 stand of arms for Col: Dabney to be detained until a special conductor be sent to take charge of them. Sept. 1st CAPT: J. PRYOR TO COL: DA VIES. "Dear Sir, Head Quar- I arrived in camp last Evening, and on a conference with the tors Holt's ]yfarquis, he wishes to have all the arms that can be collected, as well as those which I mention'd to you that I had directed to West Ham from Fauquier Co Ho to be immediately brought down to Shirley, and If by water the better as they might proceed lower as they might be wanting. I have not seen Capt Bowne or heard from Mr. Reynolds (C. M. Stores) nor can I answer the Marquis wth respect to the collection of those arms sent for to the several counties—Inclosed I send you a return of the arms in the Northn Neck counties.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 377
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 377 The Marquis talks of calling on 1000 of those Militia to Join him. 1781. 6000 is the number of Militia he wishes to have in the Field—he counts Sept. 1st upon not more now in camp than 1000—he expects 1000 Riflemen— Capt: Bohannan must be push'd as to the repairs of arms, or I don't know what I shall do—The Marquis wishes all the musket cartridges as fast as made, and in short all military stores of every kind to be col- lected at Richmond as soon as possible, & from thence to be brought down the River." * * * * I am Dear Sir Tours very Respoctfully &c &c. COL: JOHN SYME TO JOHN BROWNE ESQR C. G. OF SUPPLIES &c. Sept. 1st "Dear Sir, From what Mr. Hawes related to mo, that passed between Rockey Mills You & Him on the Subject of Flour, Have pushed Treading out my Wheat above, where Water is plenty. But you must immediately write me Your Terms (for that is best, indeed quite necessary) & if generous will close with them. I assure you on my honor that more than two merchts at Richmond, have importuned me to take money in hand last Week, at an Estimated price & make it up hereafter the Highest price. I expect You'll send mo some cash, for Can get not one shilling from the Treasurer & am quite out. Harry went after you last week for some, but could not find you. You must contrive it to me for I am really in want at present I Directed him to get the Pasturage Acct. Settled, wch now may be done, seeing there are very few cattle Remaining, I am told by Mr. Graves. I hope you can make it convenient to take them—pray Don't forget my memo as to Boswell &c. * * * Your mo: Obed: Servt. &c &c. COL: CHAS: DABNEY TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 1st "Dear Col, Lieut: Harper waits on you for the Arms and Cloathing for Goochland my Regiment. I. am much obliged to you for the Order you have C . H- obtained of the Marquis for the necessary Articles of Camp Equipage for the Regt: please to deliver it to Mr. Harper. I can assure you the Marquis cannot be more anxious for my tak'g the field than I am. I have orderd the Officers at the different posts to send in the Men immediately to this place, and hope to have them collected in a few days." * * . * I am Sir, yr: obed Servant &c &c. 48
Page 378
378 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: CHAS: RUSSELL A. D. Q. M. TO MAJOR CLAIBORNE. Sept. 2nd .When ordered to repair to that place was at New Glasgow in Amheret in charge of a quantity of Q. Masters & Commissary Stores. He arrived on the 23d and found no supplies and no means of transporting any to that port. The wagons he had used in forwarding 'the boats for the Marquis, instead of collecting provisions with them. The Commis- sioners in that District cannot furnish him with supplies, as they have had no instructions from Mr. Brown the State Commissioner, under whom they are acting. He is applied to as an Executive Officer con- tinually, for supplies, but cannot answer any of these demands. No public manufactures carried on there, no money to purchase materials, or to hire any one to do an hour's work: to think of making purehases or engaging persons to work on the faith of the State is vain—as the people say they can no longer subsist unless paid for their services, or assured of receiving their money when due—The public may give over all hopes in the future of engaging men, unless for money, none of which he has. Sept. 2nd MAJOR R. CLAIBORNE TO GOV: NELSON. "Sir, Richmond I do myself the honor to acquaint your Excellency, that I arrived in town the evening before last, tho' am far from being recovered to my former strength. I however commence in business, and hope not to meat with so severe an interruption again. * * * I beg leave to mention to your Excellency that the Quarter Master at this post has the orders of Major General the Marquis de Lafayette to forward all the Boats at this place without delay to Minge's Ferry *— This he cannot possibly do without men and as he has not the means to induce them to give their assistance, I beg an Order from Your Excel- lency, that may be effectual in this case, as the County Lieutenant, to whom an application was made, declined to do anything in it. A non-commissioned Officer & twenty men will be sufficient, and not less, as there is a Gun-Boat to be got up, that is Sunk in the River, and Sent down at the same time: in all eight boats and will be loaded with provisions. The Order is from the Marquis and dated four days since, & seemingly little done in obedience to it, nor can there be in proper time, unless Your Excellency will be pleased to direct tho aid required, as it would be attended with too much delay to procure men from the Army. I hope that my requesting the attention of your Excellency to public business on the Sabbath may not be disagreeable to you. I have the honor to be with the highest respect &c &c. * Now Weyanoke Landing.
Page 379
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 379 Gov: NELSON TO CAPT: PIERCE, Smithfield. The armament lately arrived will require large supplies of vinegar & vegetables, both which articles abounding in Isle of Wyght Co: he takes occasion to request his aid in procuring them—money will be advanced to him if needed—The articles should be delivered at Hog Island, where they can be distributed to the fleet &c. 1781. Sept. 2nd Richmond Gov: NELSON TO JOHN BROWN ESQR. COMMISSARY GENL. Sept. 2nd "Sir, The very large supplies of Provisions necessary for the armament Richmond lately arriv'd and for the Troops expected from the Northward require the most vigorous and unremitting exertions. Your attention must be immediately turned towards Alexandria, from thence thro' that neck of Land to Fredericksburg to Gloster & to the Marquis' Camp—For the French Troops the supplies may more easily be drawn from James River and its waters. This will be an extensive business and will demand many able and active men to execute it—Dis- appointment will be attended with the most fatal consequences—I have written to the County Lieutenants to urge the Commissioners to alac- rity in their department, and also to procure all the wagons they possi- bly can. Let me recommend to you again the closest application towards furnishing an immediate supply." I am &c." Gov: NELSON TO Gov: LEE OF MARYLAND. Sept. 2nd "Sir, On the 31st of August the French Fleet, commanded by the Count Richmond de Grasse, consisting of 28 Ships of the Line, and six Frigates, with 3000 Land Forces, arrived in Chesapeake Bay. They have made such Dispositions as will prevent the British Army now at York, from cross- ing James River below the Falls, should they attempt to escape to the Southward: & I trust we shall, in conjunction with the French Troops, be able to oppose to them such a Force as will keep them from penetra- ting westerly, in order to cross the country higher up. In all human probability Lord Cornwallis has nearly finished his career & will shortly receive his Reward. We are making the greatest Exertions to procure abundant & per- manent supplies of Provisions for the Fleet of our Allies & our combined Forces; & although our Prospects are good, yet so anxious am 1 that there should be no Deficiency on this Score, I wish us to have some other Dependence than the supplies of this State. Flour is an article which we may probably most want, particularly for the present & it is one
Page 380
380 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. with which your State I imagine can easily & plentifully furnish us. I Sept. 2nd would therefore take the Liberty of recommending it to your consider- ation, whether it will not be advisable to have considerable quantities of it immediately sent down the Bay? I am Sir, with the greatest Esteem & Respect Your mo: obedt & very humb Servant" &c &c. Sept. 2nd Gov: NELSON TO" THE COUNT DE GRASSE—Comdg: French Fleet &c &c. "Sir, Richmond The arrival of his most Christian Majesty's Fleet, under your com- mand, in Chesapeake Bay, was yesterday announced to me while in the Marquis do la Fayette's Camp—I take the earliest opportunity of con- gratulating you on your Safe arrival & of acknowledging this Signal Proof of the attention of our very great & generous ally, & the alacrity with which you Sir, and the other Officers of his Fleet & Army execu- ted his Intentions in our Favour. An armament so powerful & compe- tent to every Purpose will not only give a fortunate. Turn to our Mili- tary operations, but will convince the incredulous & disaffected, who may still lurk amongst us, that his most Christian Majesty is both sincerely determined & fully able to support the American United States, in vin- dicating their Rights & maintaining their Independence. It will be my greatest happiness to contribute every thing in my Power towards the speedy & successful accomplishment of the object we have in view; and to render the Service in this State agreeable to the Officers & Men of his most Christian Majesty's Fleet & Army." Sept. 2nd Gov: NELSON TO MR. PIERCE. "Sir, Richmond, I am this moment informed by the Honle Major General Marquis So'clock P M La puyettc that the Frencn Troops are landing at James Town. I desire you will immediately repair thither and adopt every measure in your power to supply them with whatever they may want, that comes within your department." Sept 2nd Gov: NELSON TO "PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS." "Sir, Richmond It is with great Pleasure I inform you of the arrival of the Count Do Grasse in Chesapeake Bay, with a very powerful armament. We are making every Exertion to improve this favourable opportunity of striking a Blow, which will not only for the present relieve this State from the Ravages of war, but will have the strongest Tendency to bring our just Contest to a speedy & happy conclusion." I am &c.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 381
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 381 Gov: NELSON TO LORD CORNWALLIS. 1781. "My Lord, From the assurance given me in a Letter I received from Sept. 3d you of Augt 5th, that all such Persons as I described Messrs. Archer & Ryall to be, were ordered to be released, I rested satisfied that those Gentlemen had obtained their Liberty: But I am just informed that they are still in Confinement on Board of one of your Lordship's Prison Ships: which from your Letter, I must suppose to be a circumstance, with which you are not acquainted. I am therefore again to desire your attention to those Gentlemen, & assure myself that you will order them to be released. I am Your Lordship's mo: obed & mo: hum: Servt. Gov: NELSON TO Gov: BURKE OF N. CAROLINA. Sept. 3d "Sir, Your letter of the 15th last month was received here at a Time Richmond when I was on a visit to Camp, which detained me till the Day before Yesterday. At present I shall beg leave to wave any answer to its con- tents, but hasten to inform you of an Event, which will give you more Pleasure than a thousand Observations on the Matters which lately engaged our attention. The Count De Grasse arrived in our Bay three days ago, with a Fleet of 28 Ships of the Line & six Frigates, together with three thousand land Forces. By a letter from the Marquis la Fay- ette received last night, I am informed that the French Troops had • begun to land at James Town. This friendly armament is so formid- able, that I flatter myself no hostile one can arrive which will venture to attack them or be able to snatch from us our Prey—Your own Feel- ings on this occasion will enable you to judge of ours—As we ought to provide against everything which can possibly happen to disappoint our high wrought expectations, will it not be well for you to keep a watch- ful Eye on the movements of the Southern Foe, as I believe you have nothing to apprehend from this Quarter? The Enemy will not lose such an Army as Cornwallis's without the greatest Exertions on all sides. But what raises our Hopes & Joys to the most exalted Pitch & which I have reserved to the last to crown the political Feast, which this Letter will afford you, is a Movement of our great General, who op the 27th of the last Month was at Chatham with all the French Troops of the Northern Army & a Body of Continentals, on his march for Vir- ginia." I am &c.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 382
382 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 3d Major Rd. Claiborne applies to Gov: Nelson for "money for the Quar- termaster's Department in this State"—His Excellency had given prom- ises that his draft should be honored. He cannot do with less than six millions of pounds, in consideration of the "rapid depreciation" and danger of loss of credit. Requests that Mr. Francis Tate may be fur- nished with proper orders for warrants to this amount—He should do himself the honor to wait upon the Gov: & Council in person but for his continued feebleness from his "late spell of sickness." Sept. 3d MAJR. CLAIBORNE TO COL. DAVIES—In reply to his delivered by Mr. Patton. Richmond In accordance with his instructions, orders will at once be issued respecting the doposites of Forage to be made on the road from George- town to Hanover Court Houso—Georgetown, Colehester, Dumfries, Fredericksburg, Bowling Green, Lynch's Tavern, and Hanover Court House had been chosen for this purpose. Col: Hendricks at Alexandria and Mr. Young on this side of Rappahannock will attend to the busi- ness—Their agents will act under Continental regulations. * * * Wagons for the Marquis' Army about to come in from different parts of the Country, he desires to know whether they shall be detained here or or sent oil to the Army.—Desires prompt information, that his depart- ment may render proper service. Sept. 3d Major Claiborne encloses to Col: Davies letter from Capt: Russell one Richmond of his assistants showing the great difficulties in procuring transporta- tion in this District, Hanover Co. House and upwards. Sept. 3d COL: GEORGE SKILLEN TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Bot«tourt Co in consequence of your former Requisition to me I have. ordered the fourth part of the militia of this County to march to head Quarters in Virginia, but as there is no Commissary in this County neither are there aney publick stores, I was under the necessity of Riding about to procure waggons & teams, provisions and other necessarys such as the men ware absolutely in want of on their march—this Sir has gave me a great Dail of trouble, the more so as the people are very unwilling to credit the publick, who complains that they have not been paid for their former Service, that the publick has been Indebted to them of a Long Standing; and should them Debts be pay'd now, by reason of the Depre- siasion of the money, it would not purchis one half of the property they first sold or was Impres'd from them—This complaint I am sorry to say
Page 383
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 383 is not altogether without reason—You well know Sir, that to perform 1781. the duty of County Lieut: at this time, is a full proportion of Fatague Sept. 3d for one person, without being concerned with that of a Commissary." * * * * "I would not undertake to Dictate to you Sir, on this occasion, but the publick good, together with the neessaty of have- ing Immediately stores provided in my County presses me to offer my sentiments—were it your pleasure it might be best to have sum person appointed as Commissary that lives here as being acquainted with the people would the better enable him to Furnish such Stores as he might want, except Lead, Kettles & Salt which are scarce artikles here."—He has sent off twenty of the six months men and deserters and will send the remainder "as soon as they can be got"—has not been able to collect all the Soldiers' clothes, notwithstanding his great efforts to do so—If the Hon'le Andrew Lewis or Wm. Fleming are down they will recom- mend a proper person as Commissary; if not, he can appoint a person to act, as soon as Instructions are sent—Concludes "I shall rest satisfied for your further orders in this affair, and that you will do whatever your prudence & goodness tell you is Best" I have the Honour to be Sir with great respect &c. N. B.—A large sum of Money collected in the County for recruiting •Soldiers, but as the Draft Law has not been put into execution, the money had become useless, it being nearly all in Continental Bills. MAJOR ALEX: DICK TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 3d "Sir, Hearing of the arrival of the French Fleet, I applyed to the Quar- Frederic'sb'g ter Master for some of the cloathing in his possestion, that our at pre- sent naked rogt: might receive part—he says he has positive orders against delivering any—I wish to share in the enterprize now on hand, but with naked men it will be impossible. I am Sir, Yours &c." Majr. Claiborne suggests to Col: Davies whether it would not be bet- Sept. 3d ter to load the wagons collected at Prince Edward Co House, Carter's Richmond Ferry & Fredericksburg with provisions to be delivered at this place— Advantage can then be taken of water carriage &c.
Page 384
384 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JOHN BROWNE COMMISSARY GENL: TO COL: DA VIES. Sept. 3d "Sir, Barret's I am directed to furnish.the French Troops with provisions—of erry course it will increase our demands for flour, & must beg the favour of you at this critical juncture to aid the Commissaries of Amelia & Pow- hatan Counties in getting the flour to Richmond, our sole dependance being from that quarter, without which there is not the smallest proba- bility of supplying the Troops— 1 have the Honor to bo Sir, your very Humble Sorvt &c. &c. Sept. 3d COL: WM. HETH TO COL: DAVIES. Petersburg Requesting his pay to be sent to him. The continued illness of Mrs. Heth prevents his "seting out agreable to expectation." Sept. 3d CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. "Dear Sir, Camp The letters I wrote by Mr. Maupin to yourself and Capt: Bryan ^ Young, I suppose were received yesterday: since which the 600 Stand of Arms from Fredoricksburg have arrived, 300 of which were said (by Genl: Weedon) to be Continental, but as I dont find any brand or other sign of their being the Property of the United States, I shall claim them for the State, and dispose of them accordingly. I am endeavouring to obtain the most accurate returns of all State Mil: Stores in the hands of the Army: orders to that purpose have been Issued by my request—I have also requested that all the Continental Arms &c in possession of the Militia be exchanged for those of the State, that a.final Separation of those Stores may once take place, and a compliance to those orders and requisitions, I find will be attended with delay and difficulty, from the detach'd situation of our Army." * * * "There is nothing more loudly called for than the remainder of those arms from Fauquier Co House, which I am in great hopes have or are nearly arrived at Richmond under the charge of Mr. Frazer. General Muhlenberg, who pass'd by this place last Evening from the South side Jas. River, informs me that the Militia are assembling about Broad Water, having at present about 400 stand of arms with them—six hun- dred'stand more he conceives will be sufficient—If it is practicable. those arms had better come down by water to James Town, where I think they . would be perfectly safe, and where the Marquis' further orders might be given them, as perhaps those Militia from Brod Water may cross to the No side the River—Ammunition is also much wanted, and it is hoped that a supply has come down from the Laboratory before this; which it
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 385
386 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR THOS: POSEY TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 3d "DrCol, Cumberland Your letter of the 27th ult: on public service, and directed to Old C. H. QOJO pel)igW, i had the Honor (as being Commandant) to open. I have \ perus'd the contents, and shall give you a list of such officers as I think may answer the purposes of recruiting, agreable to the desire of Govern- ment." He has appointed one from each Rogt: and has assigned them to such Districts and Rendezvous as will be agreable to them. He sends a list of their names, regt: and place of duty, including those serving at that Post. Concludes "Dear Colonel, if it is possible, you would oblige mo, and a great number of pore sick Soldiers at this place, if you would have a Surgeon and some medicine sent here, for I assure you a great many of the best men we have here are exceeding sick and I am afraid will not recover. I have likewise to request you, if you please to inform me how I am to procure some spirits for the use of this Post, as I am induced to believe that if some was issued to the Soldiers pretty frequently it would be very conducive to their health." I am with every Sentiment of respect and Esteem Dr Sir Your most obt Servant &e Ac. P. S. I have made myself as busey as was in my power, to have the sentiments of all the Officers I could see for the appointment of such gentlemen, as would be proper for a committee for the purposes which is now in contemplation. I have spoken to the Officers of the Cavalry and they have appointed two gentlemen Major Call & Dr. Rose—I have likewise spoke, and wrote to several Officers of the Artillery; they will appoint one: I suppose it will be Capt: Pryor—The gentlemen nomi- nated, and I beleive properly appointed, for it seems to be unanimously the opinion, are Col: Wood, Col: Febiger, Col: Davies, and Lt: Col: Towles from the Infantry, Majr Call, and Doct Rose from the cavalry, and Capt: Pryor from the artillery—but do you think Col: Harrison would not have more wait with the assembly, if so, he is now on his way to Virginia and I suppose had better be one. His baggage and a guard arriv'd here yesterday. / Sept. 3d Ed: Butler encloses to Col: Davies a list of .men to serve with him in collecting stores &c—desires their exemption from Militia duty—he had collected but few estray cattle, and some horses.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 386
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 385 is requested may come down with the arms—The Marquis is extremely 1781. desirous that the whole of the Musket & Cannon Ammunition from Sept. 3d Fauquior Co House (which I directed to Orange Co Ho:) might come immediately to Camp; to what amount there is no one can tell, perhaps Capt: Bohannan can, who possible may now be with you, and who can inform what quantity ho has sent down. agreeable to my request 100,000 Musket Cartridges were to-come in, also a supply of 6 lb. ammu- nition. I should be extremely glad that Capt Young could facilitate the arrival of all those matters by sending expresses after them & if neces- sary to press waggons to bring thom to Richmond, when water carriage would serve after. Colo Dabney sends me word there is a Gentm wth him, lately exchanged, whom ho recommends as a conductor. this gentleman (If you would be so obliging as to write to him) might attend for the arms for Colo Dabney & would be much obliged to you to appoint some person at Richmond or West Ham to Receive & forward on all supplies to me in Camp, and to receive and Send up all such as I may send, damaged or otherwise, from Camp, to Capt: Bohannan, whose business I conceive it is to attend to the Country Shops in their repairs of arms. indeed it will be out of my power to attend to those matters. So soon as you receive the returns of Arms & other Military Stores in the hands of the respective County Militia I will be much obliged to you for copies of them, as I conceive it to be my business to keep the proper amounts against each County.—Sundry Articles—Files &c for the Armourers are wanted, an Estimate of wch I requested Mr. Maupin to present you with, wishing you to give directions to Mr. Ross to furnish them. some of them are intended for the Continental forges, now in Camp destitute of Tools. I wish those Traveling Forges from Fredericksburg, could be hurried down, they being much wanted—I would be glad to be furnish by Capt: Young wth three or four waggons & Teams. The French Troops are landing at Jas Town, where Genl: Wayne's Troops & the Rifle Men cross'd to day. The Marquis' Troops have Join'd them—Genl: Stevens' Brigade lays here expecting to cross this Evening The Enemy 'tis said are in Wmsburg in their whole Force. I hope you will excuse this long Claibornian Letter, it contains some very interesting points wch 1 am anxious to hear from you on. I have the honor to be wth Sentiments f* of the highest Respect," Dr Sir, yr: mo. obt Servant, .. &c &c." Capt: Jas: Maxwell informs the Governor, that in compliance with Sept. 3d his request, he should set out for Portsmouth, early next morning, and New Kent should forward the business referred to, with every possible endeavour. <-'°' 49 '
Page 387
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. JNO: SWAN TO COL: DAVIES. "Sir, I the other day sent to Westham Seventy two Barrels of flour, and am much surpris'd to find there was no person there to receive it—the People I sent it down by were obliged to leave it on the Bank of the River without geting a Reept: for it—This is an odd way of doing busi- ness—I wish you would be good enough to have some Person appointed to receive the Country's Provisions that may be sent to that Place—The bearer of this brings down a Load of Flour which I expect will be left in the same manner the other was—if it is I shall send no more. I wish to be inform'd by you what is to be done with the Millers who have thrown the Country's flour out of their Houses, by which means the flour is ruined"—Desires instructions as to hiring men to carry down provisions, drive beeves to the army &c. 1781. Sept. 3d Powhatan Co. Thomas Read County Lieut: Col: Joel Watkins, Lieut: Col: Morton, Sept.4th Maj: Hubard, Capts: Goode, Friend, Barksdill, White, Gaines, Jac: Charlotte Co. Morton, Spencer, Halloway, Jameson and Jennings—Court Martial— instruct Col: Read to inform the Governor, that the enlisting Officers had, out of the Militia received many men for the Mounted Infantry, allowed them to enlist and receive gratuities as substitutes; but who when ordered to march had failed to do so, and those for whom they had been employed had been required to go to the field as soldiers. MAJOR CLAIBOBNB TO COL: DA visa,—in reply by Mr. Patton. Sept. 4th The means of transportation by water being so important, he had Richmond directed Capt: Russell to lay aside every other duty, to press the import- ant business of forwarding Provisions, boats & forage. Three boats had just left for Minge's Ferry, "properly manned & oared" but empty. There are 300 barrels of flour at Westham; but being spoiled are not fit to be sent to the Army. One half of the men intended to man the boats "are not yet paraded,"' consequently the boats lying above the falls cannot be brought into Service as desired. Gov: NELSON TO THOS: NEWTON JNB: BSQR. Sept. 4th "Sir, It appearing to the Executive a matter of consequence, that the Richmond French Fleet be plentifully supplied with many articles of provisions, such as fresh meats & vegetables: which may be procured in the Coun- ties contiguous to the Bay: from the Experience I have had of your
Page 388
388 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Abilities in transacting any Business committed to you & of your Zeal Sept. 4th for the Interests of your Country, I am induced to wjsh that you would undertake this Matter—& furnish them with whatever necessaries they may require—and if such supplies are not attainable by the common methods of Purchase, you are hereby authorized to procure them by Impress." "Iam&c." Sept. 4th Col: Sampson Mathews informs the Governor, he had executed his Botetourte orders of the 25th July respecting the Issuing Commissioner and calling out one fourth of the Militia—The latter had marched on the 8th of August. The Co: Commissioner will report at once in Richmond to settle his accounts—Desires thirty six Blank Commissions for Officers, & three for Field Officers. Sept.4th Jos: JONES, J. MADISON JNR:—THEO: BLAND, DELEGATES, TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Philadelphia Yesterday's post brought us no letter from your Excellency. We have the pleasure to inform you, that Genl: Washington with a part of the American Army and the Count de Rochambeau with the whole of the French are thus far on their way to Virginia. The American Troops passed through the Town on Sunday, the first division of the French yesterday & the second will follow them to-morrow. The fine appear- ance they make as men, the perfection of their discipline as soldiers, and the zealous attachment they manifest to the Allies of their Sovereign authorize the highest expectations from their Services in the field. Since our last, we have been informed that Admiral Hood, with 13 Sail of the line from the W. Indies has been at New York, and after annexing to them the 8 Ships which were commanded by Greaves, immediately put again to Sea. As the Squadron under Admiral de Bar- ras had previously sailed from N. Port, & Hood could not be ignorant of the expected arrival of the Count de Grasse on our Coast, there is little doubt that his activity is directed against.the meditated junction. Yesterday returned to this place Col: John Laurens from a special Mission to the Court of France. Although his success has not fully corresponded with our wishes, he has brought with him very substantial proofs of the friendship & generosity of our ally: of which we shall at present mention only a considerable quantity of cloathing, powder & upwards of 13,000 stand of arms exclusive of about 3000 arrived in the vessel mentioned in our last. It has unluckily happened that these sup- plies have all been carried into Boston. Prudential considerations would not admit of their attempting this Port, from whence the distribution of them would have been so much more convenient. We shall be obliged
Page 389
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 389 to your Excellency, to have a copy of the Treaty between Col: Chris- 1781. tian and the Cherokees in 1775 made out and sent us, by the Clerk of Sept. 4th the House of Delegates. We have the honor to be, with the highest respect & Esteem &c &c &c. Extract: GENL: GREEN TO COL: BALFOUR. Sept. 4th "If any of your prisoners have been detained in North Carolina con- trary to the conditions of the cartel, I am sorry for it, and take leave to assure you, that it is without my knowledge, and that I will give you every satisfaction on that head in my power." CAPT: JNO: ALLEN TO COL: DAVIES. Sept.4th "Sir, I have sent 14688 cartridges in a waggon by Mr. Thos. Talbert— Irvin's Store nine boxes, the number of the packes: is on the Top of each box it con- tains—the number of packes: 1224—I shall send on more as I can get them made—the ague & fevour begins to be very brief amongst us. Please to let the waggon return as soon as she has delivered her load, as we cant well do without her. From Sir your most 11 mult! Servt &c &c. LIEUTS W. VANTER, THOS: WHITE, & C. GIBBS IST STATE REOT TO THE Sept.4th GOVERNOR. Earnestly desiring him to interfere in their behalf with Mr. Webb, Richmond the Pay Master, for their pay—They are very needy, at great expence, far from their homes, and not able to get away from the town &c. COL: J. SYME TO J. BROWNE. Sept. 6th That he had written him on the 1st, but "Since then find it absolutely New Castle necessary to Have Something done about the Cattle, as the Distemper rages among them. I refer you to Mr. Graves for particulars."
Page 390
390 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 6th Williamsb'g CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO HON: WM. DAVIES. "Dear Col, Thro' sniiic remissncss in the return of deficiencies in the Army, I believe flints are not mentioned wch are extremely wanted— pray be so good as to direct Capt: Young to send up a Horseman with a Bag, Express to bring down as many as he can—8, or 10,000, a greater number may follow—I hope every effort is making to forward down the other Stores—I shall appoint a Person at Jas: Town to receive those Articles directed to be brought there, and conduct the proportion to the South Side the River—The Enemy press'd out to day as far as the J— Way House, but return'd. The French Troops will pass thro' this Tomorrow morning—at present they are waiting at the river, Jas. Town, for Waggons—Wayne's above the Colledge, Muhlenburg two miles below this—Genl: Stevens about Birds—I shall wait on Hd Quar- ters Tomorrow, when I expect to meet some Letters from you. In haste Dr Sir yrs resptf lly &c. P. S. Had directed Capt: Browne to write, on this subject today but this oppty—offering by Mr. Royall, I embraced it myself, it being of the first importance." J. P." Sept. 6th .Richmond Gov: NELSON TO GENL: GREEN. "Sir, The Count De Grasse with 28 ships of the Line, six Frigates & three thousand Land Forces, arrived last week in Chesapeake Bay—The Troops are landed & by this time have, I expect, formed a Junction with the Marquis about Wmsburg. The Enemy have made no movement, which I have heard of, since this Event, but continue in York, strength- ening their Post. We have called out a very largo Body of our militia, which when added to the Forces already in Camp, will enable us closely to invest York. I have had a Letter from his Excellency Genl: Washington, dated at Chatam on the 27th last month, wherein he informs mo that he is on his march for this State with all the French Troops of the Northern Army, & a considerable Body of Continentals. This movement, in all human Probability, ensures us success in this Quarter. But notwithstanding the very flattering Prospect here, I feel an uneasiness, when I consider that your situation may not be so agreeable. It is I think to be expected that the Enemy you have to deal with, will exert themselves at this Critical Time, & the superiority I fear they possess, gives Room for apprehensions. I have received no letter from you since the 15th of

This page contains an image.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 391
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. July, so that I know nothing more of the Southern Transactions between 1781. that time & this, than what I have learnt from common Report. It would Sept. 5th give me much satisfaction to have Information of a more authentic nature—" Gov: NELSON TO "THE ABSENT MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.' Sept. 6th "The operations that will take place in consequence of the arrival of Richmond a French Armament, induce me to take command of the Militia that are called out. I wish at the same time the Executive may proceed in the business before them; to effect which it will be necessary for you to attend, as I know it will give satisfaction to the Gentlemen present to have as full a board as possible." I am &c—" Chas: Edmunds writes to Col: Davies, that his orders had been three Sept. 6th weeks reaching him—he had sent off five horses, all that had been left Brunswick by the Enemy in that County— Co. Gov: NELSON TO ROBERT MORRIS. Sept. 6th "Sir. Your letters of July 16th & Aug: 23d, with a copy of July 25, the Richmond original of which has not yet been received, are all come to hand. At present I can do little more than acknowledge receipt of them, but shall lose no time in paying that attention to their contents, which their Importance requires—A person has been for sometime employed in liquidating the accounts between the United States and this State. Another is engaged in settling the accounts of the specific supplies furnished by this State. Both these, as soon as they are furnished shall be transmitted to you. In general I may observe that this 'Country has far exceeded the Requisition of Congress in its advance of most of the specific supplies. The Assembly of this State meets on the first day of October. If you can be enabled to execute the duties of your Office agreeably to- your wishes, I am persuaded America will feel the good effects of it & I hope you will beleive that private Friendship as well as regard for the publick welfare will prompt me to lend you every assist- ance which my situation & abilities give me the power of furnishing." I am &c."
Page 392
392 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPEES. 1781. CAPT: E. YARBOROUGH TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 6th "Sir, Dinwiddie Agreeable to a former Order of Council, I advertised the owners of Co. Waggons to enlist them with me, that they might be properly Brigaded, to be ready to perform their Tour, in Regular rotation—in compliance of which they were promised public protection. Accordingly they were enlisted by their owners all in the County, except two. There has been no application made to me by the Quarter Master for any of them, & they have impressed one & threaten the impressment of several others, tho' I have an immediate call for three times as many as we have in the County. in consequence of the Dry weather down the country, the whole support of the army (I am informed by Mr. Browne) depends on the upper Counties for Bread, & if the waggons as fast as called out for this business are taken away, 'tis impossible for me to procure the sup- plies as directed by Mr. Brown—sixty barrels pr: day & that to trans- port a considerable distance. I would wish to know whether or not the Executive have made any alteration in this matter, as I may know how to proceed—must also observe that if regulations of this kind are not strictly adhered to & promises of this kind violated, there will be but few waggons got in future; for I have already met with difficulties in consequence of it. Mr. Bonncr the bearer hereof had his waggon taken ten days ago, with a threat that it should never be returned." * * * Respectfully yr: Obet Servant, &c. &c." Sept.6th CAPT: RICD: YOUNG TO COL: DAVIES. Frederic'sb'g Enclosing Return of Clothing by which the deficiencies will be seen— will send return of accoutrements furnished the Cavalry in a few days— Fears he will not be able to perform the duties entrusted to him, of depositing forage for the Northern Army coming, at the several points required, for want of competent assistance, his Clerk, Express Rider and Store-keeper having been draughted, and actually in the army. Unless these men accustomed to and familiar with bis business are allowed to remain, he cannot meet the demands upon him. It is all important at this juncture, that inexperienced men should not be forced into his Department—Hopes this matter may engage his consideration. Sept. 6th CHAS: EDMUNDS, D. COMR TO CAPT: YOUNG.' "Sir, Brunswick I have sent you the horses that the British left in our county, by order of Col: Davies—you will have them delivered by the hands of Henry Hampton, & Wm. Bishop, which you will be pleas'd to satisfy
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 393
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 393 them for their Trouble of bringing them too you—Col: Davios wrote mo word that you would pay every expence for bring of them down— about them I make no charge for keeping of them—if you think proper to pay me for my trouble you may—I have sent a mare to you that was Imprest by order of B. G. Lawson, and she has made her escape from them and come home—She is a very fine Blooded mare and with foal by a fine horse: Col. Mason desires to have her discharged if you think proper, as She Belongs to Col: Wm. Brown." * * * The order that was sent to me to get these Horses was keep from me till the other Day—pray don't blame mo for not Sending of them down quicker." ***** Nothing more, but remain your most obedient &c. &c. CAPT: W. BOWNE TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. Sept. 6th Sept. 6th Informing him of his having sent one hundred and ten muskets by Camp Les- the waggons, and supposed some person had been appointed to receive ters *erry them at Richmond and have them repaired—concludes "I shall not trouble you with a detail of incidents, but shall only say I have gott a very Troublesome post of it." MAJOR CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 6th He had given the necessary instructions as to the transportation of Richmond the supplies by Petersburg and Shirley. The Quarter Master of the Post has wagons ready to convey the flour from Westham, as soon as the good is Separated from the bad. LIEUT: COL JOHN TAYLOR,* COMDG: TO "THE RIUHT HONBLE, THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE."—Green Spring Gardens." "Sir, My party is smaller than it was when last I wrote, the Gloucester Battalion being reduced to 115 men.—the relief of New Kent, which ought to have been 60 men are only 16—a few straggling Middlesex men have joined us, and I hear of several small parties from the adjoining Counties mostly unarmed—with these parties I shall have an inundation of Militia Colonels—as they will probably claim, I must ask your orders whether I must yield to them the command of this detachment. A certain Iveson, assistant to Walker whom I sent to you, got notice of the party which was going to take possession of the flag Sloop and * Subsequently the distinguished Statesman and writer, of Caroline Co. Sept. 6th Camp Paradise 50
Page 394
394 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 6th most assuredly by Walker's directions got on board the flag, before my party could arrive, and went off with her to the enemy, leaving behind her Boat & 2 English Seamen who are prisoners. I find that Walker secretly landed and got off a Cart load of goods—these two facts sufficiently authenticate Walker's objects. Farther, a box of goods landed from the Flag & belonging to one Denison who went with Walker to New York, is in our possession.—the papers, (among which is a certificate of Deni- son's having taken the bencfit of Clinton's proclamation) arc forwarded on, that they may be sent to the Governor. 1 Shall take Denison if he can be found. The Sloop carried back the negroes &c. The Enemy have landed their Guns & Sailors & made preparation for burning their Vessels—The Hessian Regt. is Said to have crossed to York, which will leave only about 800 men fit for duty in Gloucester—I believe it, because their forragings have been very contracted for several days—If this is so, I would with your permission, as soon as my party increases, take post much lower down. Being able to penetrate into probable events, only by surmises, I have given an order which may be wrong.—It is to my Commissary, to have meal prepared for 4000 men, at Whiting's Mill near which I am. I have not heard from Sir John Peyton as to a mode of furnishing the fleet with fresh provisions, so that I cannot venture to increase my stock of them, it being at present very cumbersome to my little party. The stock now left within the circle of the Encmies predatory excur- sions, is extremely inconsiderable, and their supplies hitherto obtained, have been mearly temporary.—as to corn however the case is different, much is within their reach, from which they cannot be restrained, except by a superior force—from an accurate information, I have reason to beleive that they have 18 days forrage on hand. Deserters continue to come in every day. The Express will deliver some New York papers, which may serve for a moment's amusement." I have the honor to be Sir, yr: mo: obt: hblo Servt: &c &c. Sept. 6th Jno: Swan writes to Col: Davies, that he has on hand a large supply Povrhatan of "Seconds" and flour belonging to "the Public," condemned because unsound—Asks what disposition is to be made of it. Sept.6th THOS: OusBY, LIEUT: & ADJT: So: CAB: CONT: ARTY: TO Gov: NELSON. Richmond Compelled by the most pressing necessity "he applies for aid—Was made prisoner at the capitulation of Charleston, and is now on parole— Has rec'd no supplies except nine days pay, during his captivity: and
Page 395
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 395 has drawn no clothing for three years, during which time he was attached 1781. to that Regt—Is a European, has neither relatives or friends "on the Sept. 6th Continent," but desires to get to Philadelphia, where he can get into mercantile employment; but having no horse, and no money, he cannot possibly make the journey without help—Had lain sick at Williamsburg for more than four weeks—Presents a Warrant from the Marquis de La Fayette, which he begs may be honored &c. COL: H. LEE TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Sept.6th "Sir, Agreeable to yr: Ltr of the 17th of July last, I am to inform you Princo Wm. we have no Delinquents on Militia Duty, that are condemned to serve six months, at this time:' Some few formerly we had who were sent to the Army. I am very strict in compelling the Militia to a Strict Obe- dience to the Laws, and shall continue to do so. All the Cloathing has not yet been brought in, and the Court are enforcing a strict compliance from the Delinquents, agreeable to Law. I have received thirty-one full suits, Except two hatts and three pair of Shoes." * * "The Waggon & Team from this County has been delivered agreeable to the Order of Gov: Jefferson long Since. I want a number of Blank Militia Commissions, which pray furnish by the bearer."—Lieut: Col: Attwell and two of my Captains are under arrest, and have been so, since the rising of the last Assembly—Gov: Nelson ordered a Genl: Court Martial oh the Lit: Col: but his Trial cannot come on until I receive a Copy of the late Militia Law, which please furnish me with by Mr. Austin, as in justice to these officers their trial ought not longer to be delaid. I shall march one half of the Militia on Wednesday next to Join the Marquis, having rec'd an Order from Genl: Weedon on Colo Peyton for 229 Stand of Arms at Leesburg, and not having it in my Power to got them down sooner than that day—I wish to have our men well armed, as I beleive they will fight—I cannot conclude without con- gratulating with you on our Present Prospect of finishing the Campaign Gloriously." I am with Esteem Sir, yr: most ob Servt." By his Excellency Thomas Nelson jun'r Esq'r Governor of the Common- Sept. 6th wealth of Virginia— A PROCLAMATION. Richmond Whereas the exportation of provisions will be attended with manifest Embargo injury to this State, I have thought proper, by and with the advice and aKa|"f.t ox'f consent of the Council of State, to issue this my Proclamation for laying provisions, &c.
Page 396
396 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 6th an Embargo on provisions—viz—on all Beef, pork, Bacon, wheat, Indian .Corn, pease or other grain, or flour or meal made of the same, to con- tinue until it shall be annulled by proper authority—And I do hereby strictly prohibit ail mariners, masters and commanders of Vessels, and all persons whatsoever within the State, from loading on board of any Vessel for exportation, and from exporting all or any of the above spe- cies of provision by land or by water, from the date hereof, until this proclamation shall be repealed, under pain Of incurring the penalties inflicted by the Act of Assembly, entitled an Act to empower the Gov- ernor and Council to lay an Embargo for a limited time, except as in the said Act is cxcepted—And I do hereby strictly charge and command all Naval Officers and others in their respective departments to exert their best endeavours to the end that this embargo be strictly observed. Given under my hand and the seal of the Commonwealth at Rich- mond, this 5th day of Soptem'r 1781. THOS. NELSON JNR. Sept. 6th FOSTER WEBB TO THE EXECUTIVE. Richmond Making enquiry as to the amount of compensation he is to receive, having been appointed "Paymaster General to the State" by Col. Davies. The office a very responsible one; a large amount of money having to pass through his hands, and he is required to settle the Regimental Pay- masters' Accounts. Mr. Harrison the Continental Paymaster is allowed "a Commission of Sixteen shillings in the £100, and one ration and Forage for one horse pr: day"—But he settles no accounts— Sept. 6th Col: John Swan informs Col: Davies, he is fowarding flour to the Powhntan Army as fast as possible, but is in absolute need of money, with which **°' to purchase barrels for it, and to pay for transportation—Neither Spirits or Vinegar can be supplied from that County— Sept.6th COL: R. LINDSAY TO COL: DAVIES, reporting list of six-months men condemned by Court Martial to serve that length of time. Albemarle Is convinced the order requiring a part of the militia to be called out C°' to guard these men to the rendezvous, is the only way they can be got- ten into Service. He will adopt it at once.
Page 397
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 397 BBNJ: JORDAN, COM: MIL: STORES TO 1781. Sept. 6th The arms and ammunition ordered on the 25th ult: would have been Irving'n sent down at once, had the Quarter Master at the Point of Fork furnished the bouts required—The river is now so low, that these will be of no use at present—He has therefore seized one of Mr. George Nicholas' Canoes for this purpose—Sends one hundred and fifty muskets, being all that are in good condition—Hopes he will be protected against the legal pro- ceedings, with which he is threatened by Mr. Nicholas on account of this seizure— Circular issued urging upon the County Commissioners for collecting the specific grain-tax for 1780, the necessity for sending in their accounts and returns, in order that an estimate of the Supplies furnished by Vir- ginia for the Continental service may be made. This is the more neces- sary, in as much as Congress is calling upon the State for large supplies, under the impression that the requisitions made at that date, had not been complied with. Col: Richard Morris of Louisa County had been appointed in October last to receive and arrange these accounts—He will now remain at Rich- mond for this purpose—In making up the returns from each County, particular attention should be given, to enumerating the articles delivered, giving the names of the receivers, and whether for State or Continental use. Sept. 6th Richmond MAJOR RICH'D CLAIBORNE TO COL: WM. DAVIES. 'Sir, Sept. 6th "I have written to the agent for the District of Petersburg respecting Richmond the conduct of Mr. Davies in impressing wagons and desired that he may act differently in future. It is in absolute contradiction to my instructions upon that head, a.s I have never issued'or transmitted any order or authority that is in the least oppresive, but I have strictly enjoined that they should be exe- cuted in as mild and impartial a manner as possible. Indeed I have not confined this advice to warrants alone, but in all transactions with the inhabitants." He will at once forbid the impressing "Brigaded Wagons" by his assistants, being sensible of the advantages of that arrangement: but suggests the importance of requiring every owner of a wagon and team, to show a certificate from the County Commissioners, that such wagon has been brigaded—Regrets that a person had not been sent to Westham sooner, to receive the provisions, but he did not like to have an Officer on pay, without employment, not supposing the articles would be forwarded so soon—Capt: Russell will act at once.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 398
398 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. WM. McOaAW, D. Q. MASTER TO COL: DA VIES. Sept. 6th Peytonsburg He is collecting clothing from Bedford and Halifax—Col: Thos: Read, Co. Lieut: of Charlotte, has been urged to send in the supply from that County—Advises against endeavoring to employ Artificers for twelve months, in as much as they prefer taking the risk of serving "their Tour in the Field," rather than be absent so long from their families and plantations as Artificers—It were better to engage them to make "two Canteens a day"—or as Smiths "500 pair of horse-shoes," or as wagoners during the service of the Militia, than to require their services during the year. Col: Edward Carrington D. Q. Master of the Southern Army writes, that much depends upon his having supplies of Canteens and horse-shoes—Begs for instructions on this and other heads as he is "anxious to supply the wants of the distressed Soldiers in the Southern Army. Sept.6th COL: Jos: HOLMES, DEP: COM: GENL OF PRISONERS TO COL: DAVIES,— regretting his ignorance of the fact that prisoners taken by the French Fleet and delivered over by them, were to be "applied for our benefit." Winchester In making out his lists for the Commissary Genl: of Prisoners, he has always mentioned by whom they had been taken. The hundred and thirty prisoners from South Carolina arrived at that place a few days before—He will send them to James Town at once to be exchanged for Americans. Major Nelson has "ninety Horse," or about that number already equipped at Winchester—He agrees with Col: Davies, that the late abuses in that County by the volunteer cavalry are to be much lamented—adds "The great number of saddles which they took from the People, and the manner they behaved after they had impressed Horses under their care, has soured the minds of the public much." Sept.6th COL: WM. DAVIES TO Gov: NELSON.' "Sir, War Office Conceiving the resignation of Mr. Browne an event which super- ceded the necessity of an enquiry, I could not refrain from congratulating my Country upon the prospect of a better arrangement, and myself upon escaping a business of so disagreeable a nature. His continuance in office by the direction of government, as well as the constant employ- ments in which the duties of my department engage me, 1 hope will induce government to comply with my request to be discharged from the execution of their order for enquiring into Mr. Brown's conduct— Facts speak sufficiently strong for themselves, and the Country will assuredly stand astonished, that so important a channel of conveyance . . i
Page 399
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 399 and transportation as James River, should not have a single magazine of 1781. provision upon it. That Counties as low down as Louisa should not even Sept. 6th have had their grain called for, or collected by any of Mr. Brown's Agents, and that 600 barrels of flour should be lodged at no greater distance from him than 30 miles, and be so totally unknown, as to be discovered by a kind of accident, are unhappy proofs of a capital deficiency some- where, that will in all probability prove highly distressing and injurious to the operations of the Army, and will greatly endanger the credit and reputation of government itself, if suffered any longer to continue. I have the honor to be, with the most respectful esteem Your Excellency's most obt. and humble Servant." COL: ANTHONY THORNTON JNR: TO COL: DA VIES. Sept. 6th Regretting his inability to give correct returns of the number of men Caroline Co. remaining in the County, owing to the fact that the entire Militia, and Officers capable of making returns, were in the field—At the time of the Semi-annual report required, he was too ill to attend to business. The entire force of the County "644 men." On this account the demands upon them have been "exceeding burthensomc," compared with those of other Counties. Instead of one fourth, one half are required to go to the field at once. He is determined however, to meet the wants of the Service by Keeping their full quota on duty. Gov: THOS: BURKE TO Gov: NELSON OF VA. Sept. 6th "Dr. Sir, I have this morning received yours of the 6th Instant and am Williamsbo- exceedingly obliged to you for your wishes, and readiness to commu- y°j]f Co" nicate to me an Event which gives me inexpressible happiness, and N. C. which is big with such important Hopes. The last most interesting circumstance was unknown to me before, and I have not ceased from conjecturing since I read it—do's it not Indicate that General Clinton Intends to attempt to rcleive Lord Cornwallis, and in that case where will ho land? it cannot be under the fire of the French Ships, and there- fore it must be to the Southward. I had received advices that a Fleet was on the Coast, and that Lord Cornwallis Intended retreating through this State—in consequence of this, I put this whole State in motion, in order to dispute the passes of the Rivers, and to prevent the Enemy on our Southern frontier from cooperating with him. I had sent persons into your State to watch the motions, and from them received Intelligence of the arrival of the fleet—the Events that have since happened, I have been very regularly and speedily informed
Page 400
400 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 6th Sept. 6th of, and finding that I have no longer any occasion for keeping my atten- tion towards his Lordship, I have determined to turn my force to the Southward. Unfortunately my want of arms will very much enfeeble my operations—I expect some every day, from Philadelphia, and have written to the Marquis, in hopes, if the French fleet had any Spare arms, he could procure me about 2000 Stand, which I would replace from the manufactories of France—Shot for Artillery, and indeed Ordnance Stores of all kinds, we are entirely destitute of, and if I find that I can put some guns that arc here, in condition for use, I will apply for those things to the fleet—One other Essential cannot be supplied here so Speedily as I want it, that is Swords and Equipments for horsemen, had I Swords, I could mount and form a Cavalry which would enable me to be perfect master of the Enemy's motions, and to attack them with advantage on every march—but tho I cannot do every thing as well as I wish, I will, ncver tho less do what I can. You express a very high Idea of the General Joy on the present occa- sion, as well as your own—I assure you Sir, our Country is an entire scene of heartfelt rejoicing except among the Tories, to whom it por- tends no good— Surely this Season well improved, will bring us peace and happiness, in that persuasion, I am determined to make the most of it, and I shall begin to act with some considerable force immediately. I am Sir, with tho most Sincere Esteem and Rcgard your very obt Servt." I heard a heavy cannonade on Tuesday, and am anxious for the par- ticulars." Cad: Jones, Aid de Camp, informs Gov: Nelson at Richmond, that he is instructed by "the Marquis" to inform him, that the Marquis St. Simon, the movements of whose Troops are of tho highest importance, cannot march for want of Commissary Stores; and begs such orders may be given as shall procure for them an immediate supply. Sept.7th LT: COL: ED: CARRINGTON TO Gov: NELSON. "Dr. Sir, Williamsb'g I promised myself the Honor of personally congratulating you, on your appointment to the government of Virginia, by calling on you on my way from the Southern, to this Army; but being necessarily called by Halifax in No Carolina, was obliged to post by the nearest route to this place—You will be pleased to accept my most sincere con- gratulations on the occasion, & permit me to assure you of my perfect reliance in your entire & most zealous devotion to the Objeefs of the
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 401
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 401 important Office—I wish the deranged situation of the State was less 1781. perplexing & difficult than you have found it. Sept. 7th The Marquis has, immediately on my arrival, made it my duty to address your Excellency on one of the most important & interesting points Virginia, & indeed the United States have been concerned in, during the War, in which are comprehended matters, as well out of, as in my own department, to wit, the accommodation of the Allied Army under his command so as to give that life & decision to his Operations which will ensure a compleation of his work, before the Fleet & Troops of our good Ally will be obliged to leave us—He has done me the Honor to communicate to me the assurances he had, of Waggons & Horses being provided through the Executive, against the arrival of the Fleet, for giving the most early spring to the movements of the French Army, but they have now been several days on the land, & cannot move for want of those waggons to transport their Baggage, or have we, at this time any prospects of their coming—We have been obliged, in order to bring them to this place, where they will arrive this morning, to make use of waggons, already scantily appropriated to other necessary uses, & here their baggage must ly subject to accidents which we are, under all pros- pects, bound to guard against, or else other Stores must be left in that Situation. I have not the least doubt of every steps being taken to pro- cure those waggons which depended immediately on your Excellency, but as we find they have proved ineffectual, the earliest attention, will, we hope be given to obtain them by some other mode—I beg leave to propose that the whole number wanted, be apportioned on the Counties having Waggons & within a probable distance of supplying them in time—that a person be sent specially to each to impress them for six or eight weeks' Service, but as I apprehend upon this very interesting Occasion, the peoples' patriotism could be called into operation, I wish that each impresser should carry an Address from your Excellency to the Commissioners, Feild Officers, Magistrates & other influencing Charac- ters, requesting them to join their interest with the impresser to engage the peoples' waggons by voluntary consent, assuring them of good usage & punctual discharges, & as a guard to those points, request them to send drivers of their own, & appoint a Conductor who will come & serve with them—This mode I have in several instances found to succeed, & give us effectual services which force cannot give an assurance of—We are also in great want of Horses for the French Artillery, & for the use of their Field Officers. I am told a considerable number of those left by the enemy through the Country, have, by your Excellencies Orders been collected to Richmond. if about one Hundred of the best could be sent down immediately they will answer a valuable purpose. I have wrote to Major Claiborne or the Contl: Q. Master at Richmond to apply to your Excellency for them.— 51
Page 402
402 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Provisions, I have Officially, nothing to do with, but the Marquis has Sept. 7th done me the Honor to request my general application to obtain him relief in all his distresses—He has communicated to me his Situation & prospects for supplies. they are really alarming, & the most speedy measures are necessary on the part of the Executive for correcting the mischiefs, from which amidst the most plentiful resources, our Army is like to starve. he has already been obliged to borrow from the French shipping, Bread for them to eat Since their Troops landed, & although he has had flattering assurances from Mr. Brown, that he should be able to replace it, yet his prospects are almost none, of feeding them, or his own Troops in future. I am at a loss to account for this deficiency, unless the general opinion entertained of Mr. Brown is well grounded. it is very generally thought that he has neither capacity, nor activity for so extensive a scale of busi- ness, if so, I must take the liberty to observe, that the present conjunct- ure of important Affairs render a change of the Officer necessary—I wish not indelicately to meddle with business out of my own province, but I think it proper these circumstances should be communicated to your Excellency, & the Marquis having relied on my general application, I think it my duty to communicate freely with your Excellency, on the subject. I am told upwards of 200 Barrels of Flour are now at Manchester & Boats sufficient in the River to transport them downwards. Mr. Brown certainly cannot seriously have taken measures for getting them down, or he must have succeeded. I am told also, that at Fredericksburg are 500 Barrels of Flour, private property. Should your Excellencies imme- diate prospects for supplying this great Army, which must be here for a number of weeks, be bad, I apprehend that any mode for getting that Flour, must be justified. I beg leave just to suggest the matter to you. I beg leave upon the whole, to observe that the success of our opera- tions depend so much on a man of Abilities & activity at the Head of the Commissaries Department, that no time should be lost in getting such a one established—Col: Mason, one of Mr. Brown's assistants, is thought to be a man in all respects better qualified for the business than himself, & I think, being already, in some measure in the Train of it, must be the most proper hand to employ. The number of waggons we shall want, I cannot undertake to ascer- tain precisely, but the number at present with the Army are really triffling, & caleulating for the Baggage of the present French Army, that now on its way with Genl Washington, & a number of other neces- sary uses, I am certain 100 will be a moderate claim. I shall have the Honor to waite on your Excellency at Richmond in a day or two— & in the mean time, am with that most perfect respect & Esteem yr: H. St.
Page 403
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 403 Rich'd Young, A. D. Q. Master, informs Col: Davies, the wagons 1781. required from the different Counties, will be down soon, under charge Sept. 7th of a Conductor and loaded with provisions—He proposes to divide them FredericWg into several Brigades under separate Conductors—Has received the Governor's warrant thro' Major Claiborne for impressing the means of transportation and will execute it accordingly—Is collecting forage very rappidly at the new posts on the road to Hanover Court House. SAML: H. BRADFORD TO THE GOVERNOR. The Marquis desires tho Militia of the Northern Neck, amounting to fifteen hundred men, to be ordered to tho Army at once, in as much as their services are much needed at this juncture. The French fleet having complete command of the Chesapeake it is no longer necessary that they should remain at home to protect that part of the Country. Sept. 7th New Kent C. H. Capt: Thos: Symonds, gives permit to the Sloop "Peggy" to proceed with a Flag of Truce' to tho Rappahannock "having on board negros and other effects the property of Mr. Wormley and other Gentlemen on that River"—Also permit from "Chewton" Aid de Camp to Earl Corn- wallis to Mr. Thomas Ivison to embark in said Flag vessel, with list of Slaves, belonging to Messrs. Wormley and Walker—&c. Sept. 7th Charon, York River Gov: THOS: S. LEE, IN COUNCIL, TO Gov: NELSON OF VA. "Sir, The arrival of the French Fleet, commanded by the Count de Grasse, with 3000 Land Forces', in the Bay of Chesapeake, gave us the highest satisfaction, and we can but applaud the cautionary measures concerted to prevent the Escape of Lord Cornwallis, and have no doubt of their proving effectual. We are anticipating tho Pleasures that must follow so auspicious an event as the Surrender of the Garrisons of York and Gloucester—We saw tho necessity of laying in ample supplies of Provisions for the Fleet and Army, and have been and are still exerting ourselves to procure a large Quantity of Flour, five or six thousand Beeves, and what salt meat is attainable in our State. Although we cannot at this time ascertain the Quantities of Provisions this State can furnish, yet there is reason to beleive they will be consid- erable in the essential articles of Flour and Cattle— We have the Honor to be with the most respectful attachment Your Excellency's Mo: ob't Hble Servants." Sept. 7th Annapolis
Page 404
404 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. "The humble petition of sundry persons residing on Rappahannock Sept. 8th river, to his Excellency the Governor of Virginia and to the Honorable, the Council of the said State, showeth, "That your petitioners were on the 4th of June last and 5th, plun- dered by the Surprise, Privateer, Capt: Ross: the privateers-men were landed at eleven at night, at one of your petitioners' houses (at Rose- gill)—there they deluded twenty of the negroes to join them in robbing your petitioner's house, and taking from thence all his plate, knives forks, spoons and many'other articles: from this house they were drawn, by their boat being fired on from Urbanna, where one of your petitioners (namely Hugh Walker) had raised every person in the small town of Urbanna, that could oppose these robbers, to fly to arms; but by superiority of force, a circumstance that the negroes informed their new adherents of, were obliged to give way: here then a field was opened for these Savage robbers, aided by their felonious corps of negroes and mulattoes to indulge themselves in every excess of riot and plunder: destroying in wantonness what they could not bear off to profit, they made a point to ruin to the utmost stretch of their powers, your petitioner Walker, for his promptitude and activity. from Rose- gill they took away many negroes on the tuesday, that had not joined them on monday, Sending your petitioners negroes on shore to delude away every young boy and child that appeared upon the banks, kidnap- ping and bearing them off by violence, who did not hold themselves out as volunteers. After thus injuring and ruining your petitioners at Urbanna and Rosegill, the Militia collecting at Urbanna in the after- noon of teusday the 5th of June, the Privateer weighed anchor, and fell down to your petitioner's house, Robinson—here were landed negroes and mulattoes only, whose conduct was in true conformity to their con- dition—they plundered your petitioner of almost every article of value in the house, taking his own bed from under him, whipping one of his sons, and wounding one of his daughters: happily, by God's mercy, your petitioner and his family were not all murdered. The vessel then proceeded round to Pyanketank, and on Wednesday night, hearing that your petitioner Grymes, with his family had removed to his old house plantation, as it is called, on that river, and that his most valuable household articles, and plate were there, a party of the privateer's-men, under the pilotage of the negroes, embarked in their boats and petti a quay, meaning to rob the house in the night, and to proceed to Col: George Daniel's, where your petitioner's, Wormley's plate had been lodged; but often running on ground, and meeting with other impedi- ments, the night was spent before their arrival at the said plantation: here they took all the wearing apparel of your petitioner's, Grymes' wife, and all the plate they could find, with a variety of other articles too numerous to add, your petitioner's own negroes in arms against them, and active in the work of plunder and robbery. thus having suf-
Page 405
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 405 fered, and thus treated with outrages that are unprecedented, even in 1781. this war of outrage, sundry of your petitioners applied to Col: Mon- Sept. 8th tague, County Lieutenant of Middlesex, at the head of his Militia, or a large part of them, at Urbanna, to grant (as was usually done, and as many County Lieutenants were in the daily practice of granting flags, your Excellency and honors being then not stationary at any particular place) them a flag, to proceed to Portsmouth: thither your petitioners went, set forth the treatment they had received from Capt: Ross; and found his conduct generally reprobated—Your petitioners Wormley and Grymes, after being some days at Portsmouth, waiting the arrival, by til-nl: Leslie's permission, of Captain Ross, heared he had sailed with his booty for New York: Your petitioners then offered representations to the General, against plundering the inhabitants in general, and particu- larly related every circumstance of Ross' behaviour: these representa- tions were shewn to, & approved by Capt: Murray, the Officer of the Flag, and likewise by Genl: Leslie, who forwarded them to New York by the fleet that was under the convoy of Capt: Elphinstone, which touched in the bay, in their course from Charles Town to New York—in consequence of these representations, & Mr. Ross' illegal unjustifiable conduct, some of your petitioner's negroes, and other articles have been sent back. a flag vessel now lies at Urbanna Creek, negroes are on board, and some have the Small pox: Your petitioners humbly hope your Excellency and honors will suffer the flag to be received: Your petitioners Robinson, E. Robinson, Mills, Walker, Wormleys, should the vessel be received will endeavour to hire the Captain to suffer his vessel to quarantine it: if he will not, they will procure, if possible, some hospital-house for them, taking every precaution that the disorder shall not spread: Should they fail, they promise then to suffer the vessel to depart with their negroes, relinquishing forever all hopes of regaining any property in them. Your petitioners hope they may be allowed to send a physician to visit them, and for the sake of humanity supply them with such necessaries and comforts as their melancholy condition absolutely requires, & without which they must indubitably perish. Your petitioner's prayer being heard, your petitioners as in duty bound, shall ever pray &c &c—September 8th 1781. JOHN ROBINSON PHILIP L GRYMES RALPH WORMLEY JAMES MILLS RALPH WORMLEY JNB: ELIZABETH ROBINSON HUGH WALKER.
Page 406
406 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. J. ROBERTSON, DEP: C G OF ISSUES, TO THE GOVERNOR, praying that a Sept. 8th Warrant from the Marquis de la Fayette for six hundred thousand pounds on the Treasury of Virg'a on account of the United States, for carrying on the Commissary Department of which he is Cheif, may be honored. Bichmond He is urging forward supplies to the Army: his assistants are daily leaving him, because of their inability to live on their pay, and unless aid is furnished him, he cannot carry on the department as he desires, for the good "of the Continent in general & in particular the State I receive the supplies from." Sept. 8th DAVID Ross TO COL: WM. DA VIES, dwelling upon the great want of an efficient Commissary of Stores. Bichmond Mr. Wm. Armstead the incumbent has expressed his intention to resign—Should this occur, recommends Mr. Saml: Drtvies of Petersburg, as one well qualified in every respect, for the place. Sept. 9th ARCHIBALD RITCHIE TO THE GOVERNOR. "Honble Sir, Tappahan- I pray your forgiveness for requesting the favour of an nock anewei. to my Letter of the 25th Ulto.—With much respect I am, Your Excellency's Most Obedient Servant." Sept. 9th A. RUCKER TO COL: DAVIES. Amherst Co. His instructions in regard to collecting supplies, and establishing a "Magazine at Lycb.es' ferry" have been received—Recommends Stoval's ferry, fifteen miles below as a more fitting place, on account of loss dan- ger from high water—Flour and grain abundant, but unless the people are assured of payment, these articles cannot be procured—Baton scarce, for want of Salt. Sept.9th LT: COL- JOHN TAYLOR TO Gov: NELSON, sending certain prisoners, among whom is Thomas Ivison, who "came up in Walker's pretended Flag vessel" to York River, landed and secreted goods &c. Camp He returned with the vessel, and came afterwards to Urbanna in Hubbardu anotaer vessel—Having evidence of villiany in this man, he had him arrested and now sends him to Richmond.
Page 407
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 407 LEWIS BURWELL TO ARCHIBALD BLAIR, applying for blank Commis- 1781. sions to fill vacancies of Officers resigned in that County. Sept. 9th Asks for "two dozen." He hopes "to have a hand in taking Corn- Mecklen- wallis" as he shall go down with the Militia in a day or two. burg Co. COL: BENJ: BLUNT TO COL: DAVIES. He has been ordered by Genl: Muhlenburg to take command of the Militia to assemble at this place—Only about two hundred and fifty arrived chiefly from Southampton, but the men from Greensville and Brunswick are daily expected—These are in grant want of lead, flints, Salt and Camp Kettles: indeed their guns are not fit for action; he urges the importance of attention to these wants. Sept. 9lh Surry Old C. H. COL: JNO: SWAN TO MR. JOHN PIERCE, COM: FOR STATE OF VA. "Sir, Your favour of the 8th instant is now before me—I observe the contents, and for answer say, that 'till within these few Days past, I could not have thought there had been a man in the County that would have hesitated a moment in giving up his Grain, or any thing ho pos- sessed, that his Country wanted, but to my great surprise & mortifica- tion, I find there is scarce a Man that will Sell any part of his property to the Country—I have had a young Gent: these six days past constantly riding from House to House endeavouring to engage a sufficient quan- tity of Wheat for 2000 Bis: of flour (the quantity required) together with all the Cattle he could get, and returned this morning, without engaging a single Beef or a Busl of wheat, which is what I cannot acct: for, especially when I recollect how cheerfully they gave up every thing I required of them but a little time ago. Their reply is, they dont know what quantity of wheat they can spare, that they have not trod it out, and wou'd not wish to engage it before they know, that they have no Cattle to spare, that the Country is already indebted to them & they can't get their Pay—this is the language of allmost the whole of the Country—Surely the Devil has got into them—Mr. Saunders, Capt: Williamson, & I understand Mr. Pleasants who owns Mills & have manu- factured for the Country, declare they will not undertake to manufac- ture another Bushel for the Public, unless some person or persons makes themselves liable, if they shou' Suffer on Acct of the flour being in their Mill—Colo James is grinding up the last of the old wheat." * * * "I was obliged to pay Col: James the other day 3500, for 100 flour barls and that, before he struck a stroke to them—I know not how to get any lOth Powhatan Co.
Page 408
408 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. more—the money is out & I cannot force men to work—I am apprehen- Sept. 10th eive the people wont get their wheat out for fear I should seize it—If this is their notion, God knows what we shall do—It makes mo tired of the business, and I seriously wish you would appoint some other Person. I have engaged with Colo James to Grind what of the present Crop may be convey'd to his Mill, for which I give him the Eight part of the Wheat & the Brand—it is high, but he would not do it for any thing leas." * * * * * I am Sir, yr: hbl Servant." Sept. 10th F. Webb junr, informs Col: Davies that Continental money is only Treasury received in that Office for Taxes—An Order for the Bounty due the 06 recruits from a County can be paid, and the Continental money taken for any taxes due from said County. Sept. 10th COL:-JOHN PAGE TO Gov: NELSON. Dear Sir, Camp near As Numbers of our County men have suffered severely from the Enemy's Depredations, & are likely to suffer still further by the Execution of an Order from the Marquiss (as I am informed by Col: Taylor Commdg: at this place) for sending on to his Camp all the Beaves driven out of the way of the Enemy & all that can be procured. I beg leave to state to you the Hardships they will suffer & the Incon- veniences the public must sustain if this order is carried into Execution. The People will not only be reduced to Beggary, if their Stocks are taken from them, as they must be, to feed the Army now here, if any more be sent out of ye County, after losing all their Grain, and their present Crop, which many of them have not been able to work, but they will be actually in Danger of Starving. The inconveniences to the public, and the Loss of Stock in passing them over York River, as lately 60 were drowned, & that still greater one of being hereafter obliged to depend on Supplies brought from a great Distance to feed the Army in this Neck, which might have been supplied from this & the adjacent Counties, had the stock been driven out of the way of the Enemy into Some Safe Place in the rear of our Camp, & reserved for that Purpose—It will be hard upon the wretched inhabitants of these plundered Counties, rf they alone should be com- pelled to feed both their Enemies and Friends, & then be reduced to give up a considerable Proportion of their Shattered Fortunes to purchase even their daily Food from Speculators in the upper parts of the Coun- try—Excuse me if I earnestly recommend it to you to have large sup- plies of all Sorts of Provisions brought from the upper Counties & draw as little as possible from the distressed Families below. On my return
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 409
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 409 to Camp (I suppose you received my letter by Maj: Nelson) I found our 1781. Militia under one pretence or another had skulked at Home—I am now Sept. 10th endeavouring to draw out every man of them & hope to make striking Example of the Offenders so as to deter other Militia Men from staying at Home a Day after they shall be called out." * * * "I congratulate you on the arrival of the Fleet &c of our great and generous Ally, a Friend in need is a friend indeed! Once once my dear Sir, lot me advise you to call vigorously on every County, especially those out of the Enemy's reach for their full Proportion of Beef, for the use of the Army; & let all the Stocks &c, which can, by any Force you can raise be driven out of the way of the Enemy, leav- ing it optional, except in Emergencies, to the owners to sell to any Per- sons they may chuse—&c. * * * * I am most sincerely & affect:" yors: CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 10th He is glad to hear the arms are likely to arrive soon, as great will be Camp near the demands on him "from the Hosts of Militia" expected in camp. Williamsb'g But feeling certain that most of these troops will be disbanded when Genl: Washington arrives, asks for instructions as to disposing of their arms—Has employed a person to collect from the people the arms picked up after the action at James Town, which are chiefly State property— Regrets to hear, matters are so badly conducted at Jut-one's Store— Capt: Bohannan should be there, having first established connections with the Army Northward, under proper Conductors—Musket cart- ridges, & slow-match so scarce,.that he is constantly on the borrow from "the Continent," and his three Traveling Forges are without tools & armorers and often without horses—The Marquis has called on him for tools &c to be charged to "the Continent." Major Washington has just directed his attention to the two thousand Cartouch Boxes, at Annapo- lis, which Gov: Lee says belong to Virginia—This shows great neglect in the Agent at Phila for not making proper arrangements for trans- porting such articles to their destination. He desires to be furnished with a complete Return of all the Military Stores in the State, in as much as Genl: Washington will most certainly call on him for one, upon his arrival—Has never been able to procure a statement of the number of arms brought to Fauquier Co. H. from the North, and altho' Genl: Woedon is making every exertion to have the ammunition at that place brought down to Camp, when matters get once arranged, he will be happy to dispense with his interference. The Marquis wishes all the Intrenching Tools properly repaired and ground and sent to James Town as soon as possible. He is instructed by the latter not to send any arms to the South Side of James River as 52
Page 410
410 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. the Militia are all to cross to the North Side—A Conductor of Military Sept. 10th Stores has been sent over to the Gloucester part of the Army, which, a thousand strong, has never had one. Maupin will be down soon, with the lead & Powder so much needed for the Riflemen—&c. * * * I am Dear Sir yours very Respectfully. Sept. 10th THOS: PIERCE TO Gov: NELSON Smithfield Ho has been honored with the enclosures, covering Resolutions of the Executive respecting "estrays," and shall use every exertion to foward the interests of the Country at this most important crisis—Agrees with his Excellency that every exertion should be made to put a stop to the spirit of licentiousness so prevalent in the lower part of that Country, and trusts the time is not far distant when the blessings of civil liberty shall again be enjoyed. He has been constantly in communication with the men-of-war in Warwich Bay; has been riding to and fro, in order to procure them supplies of vegetables and fresh meats; and has paid especial attention to preventing the extravagant prices demanded by the people—No large quantity of vinegar can be procured, on accont of the total loss of fruit this year; but by getting a few gallons at the several houses, he hopes to be able to supply what is necessary—This and all other articles needed will be sent to College Landing as soon as practicable—Expresses anxious desire to render efficient service -'on this present great and glorious occation" &c. Sept. 10th CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Camp near Is glad to hear Frazer is ordered to remain at Richmond—He will be g found verv efficient in fowarding materialu of war, and as a vehicle of communication with Capt: Bohannan—Adds "Our operations seem to be a little stagnant here, waiting the arrival of his Excell'y Genl: Washington—I suppose you have heard that Sr. Saml: Hood with 16 Sail of the Line paid a visit to our Capes and took a blow or so wth the Ct. de Grass. and ran away manfully, the Ct. pursuing him, leaving 6 sail of the Line to watch his Lordship's motions. I wish it may not turn out a Lord Howe's manoeuvre upon Count de Estaing." Sept. 10th Alex: Sparks, Com: P. Tax, reports the amount of grain and Tobacco Westmorel'd collected as Specific Tax in that County for 1780 and 81—Total amount Co. of grain 3206 Bush: Corn—617 Bush: of Oats, and 2555 lbs. Tobacco, besides "Spirits, Bacon &c"—
Page 411
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 411 CHAS: DICK TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. Sept. 10th All his Books and papers having been sent off for security, upon the Frederio'sb'g late advance of the Enemy, he is not able to give as full or as speedy a report as desired—The work under his charge, was erected for the making of small arms only—Other military stores are under his care— The Public Magazine is close by, but not finished—if it were, and stores in it, the public would be bencfitted by putting it under the Director of the Factory—He encloses an account* of the arms made. repaired and issued since Jany: 1st last to September 1st—15 new stand remaining. and no old ones worth repairing. There would have been more, but for the great want of money to pay workmen and procure supplies, and the loss of one whole month—Cannot give the number of arms made pr: month, but only a general average—When the mechanies are at work, the best of them are employed by the Piece; and without interruption and a proper supply of money one hundred stand can be turned out pr: month—The Workmen's wages are from 3 shillings to 6 shillings pr: day according to merit—They have of late been paid at 500 for one but they cannot get rid of the currency to supply their wants except at from six to eight hundred for one, and some of the tradesmen refuse the paper money altogether—This is very hard upon them, and unless some- thing is done, to releive them, the workmen will all desert. * * * * He hopes the irregularities growing out of the late confusion, & the utter want of discipline among officers and men will be overlooked. And now that the "Bay is clear" he expects a supply of Bar Iron and "Gun Scalps" from Baltimore. The German Steel not yet come. none to be gotten there and much wanted—A vast quantity of Files are worn out on Gun-Barrels, Gun Locks, Bayonets and Ram rods &c. LEVIN JOYNES TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 10th "Dear Sir, Your favor of the 5th August was this day received—I wrote Accomack you about Ten days agoe that Mr. Crew might command any services I could render him, but he has not appeared to need them— We have had most alarming times this Summer, all along shore. from a sett of Barges manned mostly by our own negroes who have run off— These fellows were really dangerous to an individual singled out for their vengeance whose property lay exposed—They burnt several houses—I have been informed Capt: Robertson who had a principle hand in this Business was taken a few days agoe at the Cape— There was another sett of Villians, no loss dangerous than the Barges, inhabitants of this County: they would assemble six or eight together *Not found.
Page 412
4I2 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 10th and Rob from house to house in remote places. Three of the latter class were caught some time agoe, and hung by the unanimous consent of more than a hundred of their neighbours. This act of violence seems Justi- fied by the necessity of the case, as it put an immediate stop to that kind of mischief." * * * *' * I am, Dear Colo Your most Obt Servant. Sept. llth Williamsb'g Sept. llth Louisa Co. Gov: NELSON TO Gov: BuRkE OF N. CAROLINA. "Sir, I arrived here this day. Part of our Troops are below within eight miles of York: the French & most of the Continental Troops lie still a mile or two above—Our force is daily growing stronger & I flat- ter myself we shall very soon circumscribe Cornwallis within narrower Limits than he has lately been- accustomed to. We have had informa- tion of the arrival of the Northern Troops under his Excellency Genl: Washington, at the head of Elk—They were to come down by water & may be every minute expected—Last week a British Fleet appeared off our Capes, which drew out the Count de Grasse with the greater part of his Fleet. It is said they engaged, & that after a smart conflict the Britons fled & were pursued by the French. They have not yet returned, nor have we heard anything from them, which can be depended on, but from their superiority our Hopes are very high. I shall continue here until the Fate of York is determined; unless the Meeting of an Assem- bly obliges me sooner to leave the Field: & I expect to have the Plea- sure of communicating to you from Time to Time Events of the most agreeable Nature." Rich'd Anderson Jnr: encloses to Col: Davies, his "register of Estrays" and list of persons employed in collecting and driving Cattle. He is required by Mr. Brown to procure in that County as much wheat as will make "1000 Blls: of Flour," but unless exemption from military duty can be given to the workmen, he will not be able to get the barrels made. Sept. llth MAJOR WM. BOYCE TO GENL: MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE. enclosing pro- ceedings of a Court Martial, held for the trial of Dr. Archibald Camp- bell, charged with bringing into Camp persons infected with the Small pox. Surry C. H. Found guilty, and was then in confinement. Major Boyce thinks him inimical "towards the great & glorious cause in which we are engaged" and deserves no pity—But for the sake of his family, recom- mends his being bailed—concludes—"I have about 200 men at this \
Page 413
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 413 place, chiefly County Militia, not more than half of them arm'd, and 1781. them but very indifferently—they would wish to be well arm'd and Sept. llth taken into the Field, that they might receive Some satisfaction for the Injuries done them by Lord Cornwallis & his Plunderers, when they marched through this County." Col: Will: Clayton, informs Gov: Nelson, that he has made every Sept. llth effort, in accordance with his instructions, to procure horses for the New Kent Army, from the people of that County, but so far has gotten one only °' which he has handed over to Mr. Herbert Claiborne—All his own had been taken by the British, or he would gladly "lend them to the Public. COL: BENJ: BLUNT TO BRIG: GENL MUHLENBURG, reporting the strength Sept. nth of his force. He has collected the Militia of Southampton, Sussex, Dinwiddie, Surry Greensville & Amelia, in all amounting "to five hundred and ten Infantry and thirty nine Horse—The Brunswick militia under Col: Eliot are just coming in, "two hundred and thirty Infantry and thirty two Horse'', but with only about twenty guns. He has "only 80 muskets, and 120 small guns", and the Horsemen are well mounted but are in want of Swords. Has sent expresses over the Country to collect small guns, but could get none! The bearer Major Lucas will give further information, and will return with instructions as to where he shall march, &c. Jos: JONES, J. MADISON JNR: THEO. BLAND & ED: RANDOLPH DEL: TO Sept. llth Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Another post has arrived without our being favored with a line Philadelphia from your Excellency— A letter has been received by the President of this State from Gov- ernor Livingston containing intelligence that General Clinton is prepar- ing to embark a large body of troops at New York, which is to be landed in the Jerseys and to penetrate southwardly in order to controul the reinforcements going to Virginia—The posture of opposition which we hope will be taken by this State and that of N. Jersey, with the force under Genl: Heath on the North River, which will be in the rear of such a movement render it very little formidable. We have had no information since our last either of the British fleet under Admirals Graves & Hood, or that of the French under Admiral de Barras— With sentiments of the highest Esteem & respect, We have the honor to be yr: Excel- lency's most obt & hubl. Servants."
Page 414
414 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Sept. llth Camp ncar Expresses the utmost astonishment that Maupin who had just arrived g should have been allowed to leave Richmond without the Powder and Lead for the hundreds of Riflemen, who are now useless without these articles. He "has not had a moment's rest" for applications for them, and cannot be held responsible for such apparent neglect of the interests of the Army at this critical time. He is blamed daily, and must insist upon the utmost regard for his directions in future in this respect. Sept. llth COL: JAMES HENDRICKS TO COL: DAVIES. Alexandria He is aware of the great want of provisions below, having frequently been urged by Majr. Claiborne on this head. He has written in the most pressing terms to all the surrounding County Commissioners, Co Lieuts & County Courts but they have not collected the provisions—why he knows not—He could transport "any amount" if it were on hand; having engaged a number of vessels for the purpose— Continues "My God! why is the Militia called out? You will very shortly have from 13 to 14,000 regular Soldiers with you—the Militia ought to have been employed in Threshing out their Grain, and the wagons by them collected for to carry their baggage, in carrying the flour as fast as manufactured, to the Army or Navigation—his Excel- lency Genl: Washington hath, with his usual wisdom ordered the Bat- tallion from this County, instead of marching to Wmsburg to repair the roads for his Convoy coming on." Sept. llth COL: LEWIS BURWELL TO COL: DAVIES, in reply. Mecklenbu'g He can procure a large quantity of Wheat in the County, but the <-!°, Mills are all dry at this Season—Vinegar very scarce: has only about one hundred gallons which he will send down—Recommends the policy of buying up the wheat and storing it—Asks for instructions in regard to the Law for seizing one tenth the Cattle, in as much as there is a dis- pute between the Sheriffs and the People, on this head. Sept. llth Capt: Rich'd Young reports to Col: Davies, that there are no Military Frederic'sb'g Stores on hand at that place, except a few out of repair: which will be sent to the gunnery at once for repairs—In future he will be particular in his returns, giving names of those to whom delivered, and whether the property of the State or Continent. There are many yet at Fau- quier Co House, which he will send down at once.
Page 415
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 415 GENL: A. SPOTSWOOD TO "My dr. Sir, I came off and forgot to send the uniform Jacket. my Servant neglected to put me in mind of it, and left it in charge of a negroe of Mr. Galts, to whom I have wrote and requested him to send it to you. Should the waistcoat not be recovered, I wish to have them made to fit such a man as the one who wished to be employed as an artificer—I wish the whole to be Blue, or half Blue & half Groen, or half white—if not convenient to face the Jackets have them edged; if Blue or White edged with Red—if green edged with white—each Jacket to have side pockets abt midway the waistcoat—The Jackets Button as a waistcoat as high as the pit of the Stomach, and then to Turn of with a narrow french Lappel. I think you may provide for 500 men—do my dr Sr have me well equipt, and then I shall be able to attend to economy. I am with friendship & Esteem yrs: Sincerely." 1781. Sept. llth Seldon's MAJOR RICH'D CLAIBORNE TO COL: DA VIES. Sept. llth "Sir, I have had the honor to receive your favor of the 8th respecting Richmond the best mode for bringing the Brigaded teams into Service: and the exertions of the Quarter Master General's department in this State, towards supplying the French Troops with wagons. I have considered the mode adopted by the government for Brigading the teams in the Country and like it much; but find that it is not suffi- cient to answer the design. I would propose that every Wagon, Team and driver be Brigaded, without loss of Time. under proper Conductors: and that every owner of a Driver, Team or Wagon should have a Certifi- cate from the County Commissioner, or whose ever business it is, and countersigned by the Conductor, that the said Wagon, team & driver are Brigaded and to remain so until orders are received to the contrary from Government, or be subject to impresses—That every driver shall have a Certificate signed by the Commissioner and Countersigned by the Conductor in whose Brigade he is, that no interruption may take place to him, his Wagon or Team by the Impressors: or delay be caused to either of them by reference when the distance might be considerable: that no owner or driver, of a team or Wagon shall lend or hire the same to go further than miles from the place of his residence, without first obtaining written permission signed by the Commissioner of his County or the Conductor of the Brigade to which he belongs: but be ready with their Wagon and Team, whenever they may be called upon for the service of the public: that the Conductors be subject to the
Page 416
416 CALENDAR OF. STATE PAPERS. 1781. orders of the Commissioners of their County: make returns of any Sept. llth changes or accidents which may happen in their Brigades; and see that each Driver team & Wagon are paraded in time, whenever they may be called for—I likewise find from experience that the plan is caleulated more to answer future, than present purposes—Were wagons convenient to the different Posts of the Quarter Masters, so that they could call them occasionally as the Service might require, the plan would do well: but when they have to come a considerable distance to answer small purposes, it is an expense without any benefit: however as I see no way of remedying these inconveniences while the Continent does not support the war, independent of the means in the hands of the people, I cannot devise a better way, than that the Continental Agents shall have power to call on the County Commissioners for such a number as they shall . want, Keeping them in Service for such an exact time, and giving timely notice, so that a releif may be Sent." * * * • * * "It cannot be expected that the teams will find constant employment, but it would be inconsistent to discharge them for want of a few days or hours work—It will be proper to consider the interest of the Citizen, as well as that of the Public in this matter, and not make the periods for their services longer than their circumstances will admit—At par- ticular seasons few men can spare their Wagons without injury to their other property; therefore regard should be had to those & likewise to such as will not be so material, and the times calculated accordingly—I would propose that the shortest period be a fortnight from the time of their being received by the Continental Agent; and that, should a releif not come, agreeable to the time appointed, the teams then in service shall remain until it does arrive—That every driver shall have a proper discharge in writing signed by the Assistant Deputy Quarter Master or Agent, for whom they have been acting, when the tour is performed, specifying the time they have served, and be regularly to their Con- ductors, who shall transmit them to the Commissioner of the- County, that they may be entered to his credit, or it will not be considered a tour of duty—These regulations may be extended to the vessells, Boats, & Crews likewise"— ***** 1 have the honor to be, with very great respect & esteem, Sir, your obt. humble Servant." Sept. 12th Gov: NELSON TO DAVID Ross. "Sir, Williamsb'g The great Distress the Army is now suffering, from the want of Flour & Meal induces me to write to you, although I am persuaded you
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 417
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 417 are exerting yourself in this Business—Petersburg, I beleive promises 1781. fairest for an immediate supply, & thither I would beg you to turn your Sept. 12th attention, unless you know of some Place more likely to satisfy our wants—You will be good enough to continue your assistance to the Commissary, which I know will be of the greatest service to him & con- sequently to the Country. I am Sir, &c." L. WOOD JNR: SOL. TO THE GOVERNOR, in reply to his, requesting "a Sept. 12th particular account of monies expended for the Kentucky & Illinois departments." There are no books in his office relating to those departments—those Solicitor's of the Auditor's Office may furnish the information; but entries so far found, are so obscure, and the unfortunate loss of the Papers in January last put it out of his power to comply with his Excellency's request" &c. HERBERT CLAIBORNE TO Gov: NELSON, expressing his great regret at Sept. 12th not being able to procure horses for the use of the French. He has delivered only eight, which belonged to Mr. Ruffin and him- self—Has the promise of more. Assures him he has used every effort to persuade "the gentlemen of my acquaintance" to comply with his request, so that orders for impressing may not become necessary. Con- cludes. "I am exceedingly Sorry I was not at home when you call'd on me, it would have given me inexpressible pleasure—and must hope for that pleasure when it's convenient to you. I should have waited on you in person, but can assure you I have not a Horse. I remain, Hon'd Sir, with grate Respect, yours most sincerely &c." Col: Geo: Carrington reports that Col: Skipwith had marched with Sept. 12th the Militia of that County, one hundred and sixteen men, but in expec- Cumberland tation of more joining him—He had a sufficiency of arms for the men ^°' then with him. Col: Winder Kenner's receipt for 2146 galls: rum, landed from the Sept. 12th Brig "Bellows," Latouche, Master, and impressed for the State. Northum- berland Co] 53
Page 418
418 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. DAVID Ross TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 12th Richmond He has been at Petersburg urging the Millers to get to work. The two chief mills out of repair, and are in possession of the Commis- saries—Thinks they had better continue so until repaired, and when their owners may be disposed to contract with the Public—" They talk of nothing but hard money for their flour." He is about to proceed up the Country in search of flour, and shall use every endeavor to procure a good supply. He is offered some, but not of good quality, and will not contract to furnish the French agent, except with flour of unexceptionable quality. The want of vessels has been seriously felt, but this is nearly removed. This part of the County has far from recovered from the severe visitations of the Enemy. Sept. 12th Gov: NELSON TO COL: DAVIES. Williamsb'g "Since my arrival in Camp, I have understood that there is not a sufficient number of intrenching tools collected, nor is there a prospect of procuring them near this place—I am therefore to desire that you will give orders to have all the tools fit for this purpose, which are to be met with in Richmond, or elsewhere within your reach taken and sent down. Not a grain of flour has yet arrived from above, nor is there at present a grain of meal in Camp. The greatest distress prevails on this account, and how we are to remedy it in time, I know not. I beg of you to urge the persons engaged'in this business, to the utmost industry and dis- patch. Water carriage from Richmond is too tedious to afford tho releif we want. For immediate use some ought to be sent by land if possible. I am Sir, Yr: mo: ob: Servant. Sept. 12th Col: W. Edmonds, encloses to the Executive nominations for the Fauquier Co. County Court, Magistrates &c and Militia Officers appointed, with request for Blank Commissions for the same. Sept. 12th Gov: NELSON TO COL: BLUNT. "Sir, Williamsb'g Your Letter of yesterday by Major Lucas is just received. The alacrity with which the Militia turn out, on this occasion, gives me great Pleasure. On account of Provisions, it is necessary that you continue at your present Post till further Orders. I am &c.
Page 419
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 419 Gov: NELSON TO MAJOR BOYCE. 1781. Sept. 12th "Your Letter to the Marquis La Fayette, dated yesterday has been Williamsb'g referred to me. Until I can give it proper attention, and till farther orders, you will keep Dr. Campbell in Custody. I am Sir &c. Gov: NELSON TO COL: ANTHONY THORNTON JR: Caroline Co. Sept. 12th "Sir: A large Body of Troops being expected in a few Days down the Williamsb'g Bay, under his Excellency Genl: Washington, which will probably land in Gloucester, I beg that you will have all the Flour you can procure at Port Royal, or in any part of Caroline or the adjacent Country, sent in Vessels round into Piankatank with all possible Dispatch. I have taken the Liberty of giving you this Trouble from a conviction that your zeal for your Country's Good will incline you to undertake a Business so serviceable to it & that your Influence will enable you to execute it with the greatest success. I am Sir Your mo: obed: & very humb &c &c. Gov: NELSON TO CAPT: CALLENDER. Sept. 12th Sir, I request that you will immediately proceed up James & Appomat- WilliBmsb'g tox Rivers, & give your assistance to the Commissaries & Persons employed in procureing & sending Provisions to the Army. You will push down, with the utmost Dispatch all Vessels you meet with which are loaded & impress such vessels & their Crews as are not engaged in the Public Service. 1 am &c. Gov: NELSON TO COL: WELLS. Sept. 12th "Sir, The great want of Flour & Meal in the Army, requires that every Williamsb'g possible measure be adopted to procure supplies, & that persons of Influ- ence & activity engage in this Business—I therefore request Sir, that you will undertake to procure these Articles in the Isle of Wyght & the neighboring Counties, where your Exertions I am persuaded will have great Effect—You will take possession of Mills proper for your Purpose & you may assure the People that the Corn they advance on this occasion shall, if they require it, be replaced—You will also take
Page 420
420 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. what spirits you can meet with for the use of the Army—Vinegar too Sept. 12th is much wanted; and Capt Pierce of Smithfield has been appointed to provide it—To him you will be pleased to make application for what he has gotten, & you will besides endeavour to procure elsewhere. I am Sir, &c." Sept. 13th COL: GEO. NICHOLAS, AID DE CAMP TO Gov: NELSON. Desires Col: Davies to inform his Excellency of the exact amount of ammunition on hand—The great expenditure that may be expected during the operations at York, demands that provision be made for a sufficient supply—The Horses collected must be sent down immediately, as the French cannot move without them. Sept. 13th JNO: PIERCE TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Richmond I was this day sent for to attend the Lieutenant Governor & Coun- cil, when they produced a letter from your Excellency describing the distressed situation the Army was in for the want of provisions. I find myself exceedingly affected at the melancholy representation, especially as the chief dependence is on me for their support—I can truly say I have been using my best endeavors to procure supplies by sending to every quarter, and am sorry to inform you that the prospect from Ame- lia (where 1 have put great dependence for flour) has been exceedingly lessened since I saw you, as the Commissioner assures me a considerable qnty: of his stores are damaged—Also the prospect is exceedingly gloomy from Powhatan, as you will discover by the letter from Mr. John Swann which I have sent you, & have received letters from sev- eral other Counties expressing nearly the same sentiments— However I am sanguine to hope that in future there will be less cause of complaint, having assurances from Mr. Richard Yarborough that his prospect is very promising, having 14 pair of mill stones constantly grinding wheat & corn, & that he has already sent of three vessels loaded, & making preparations to load others; Col Syme's Mills are at work & shall begin to bring from there immediately & I expect to send a vessel from here to morrow, with about two hundred bush'ls for the French Troops, & the quarter master another with about the same qnty: for the rest of the Army & expect flour from above every hour to Westham. To this 1 have assurances from Commissioners that their Beeves shall be immediately sent foward &c—Your Excellency may rest assured that every exertion in my power shall be made to procure plentifull supplies, if to be affected & flatter myself 1 am not blamed for the present sufferings, nor in future for what I cannot effect." I am Your Excellency's Most Obt Servt."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 421
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 421 JAMES CLAY TO THE GOVERNOR. 1781. Making application for the discharge of Major Selden's "Troop:" that Sept. 13th Officer having left them in his charge with orders to act accordingly. They only expected to perform a "tour of one fortnight." CAPT: A. BOHANNAN TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 13th Is at a loss to know how Capt: Pryor can complain of him, not con- Richmond sidering he has any authority over his department. He had never called upon him for information, nor can it be supposed a Commander in Cheif will call on a Feild Com: of Mil: Stores for a report of l: the public magazine of the State." The Powder & Lead for the Riflemen shall be sent as soon as a wagon can be procured: also the files for the Traveling Forges. The Cartouch boxes in Maryland shall be sent for. The arms left by Maupi n were without bayonets. * * * A genl: return of Military Stores shall be made at once, as also of all Stores in his department. He never considered intrenching Tools Mili- tary Stores, but he will give every attention to having them fitted for service. COL: GEO: NICHOLAS, AID TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Genl: Washington is expected here every day, and we have now on hand only two days provisions for the troops that are here at present. The bad consequences attending a disappointment at this time must be SO obvious as to render it unnecessary to point them out particularly. You had better never trust to the flour being brought by water alto- gether, until we have so much before-hand, as to render a small dis- appointment of no consequence. We are much in want of Salt, of which a large quantity will be necessary. You must lay your account in furnishing thirty five thousand rations per day, at least." Sept. 13th Jno: Pierce, informs the Governor of the dispatch of provisions by water to the Army. He has sent expresses to the Fredericksburg and Alexandria Districts, urging the fowarding of beeves, spirits and vinegar, and shall continue his utmost exertions to feed the Army. Has heard of a quantity of Salt in Hanover, which with all the flour and Indian Meal that can be gotten, he shall send down by way of the Mattapony and Pamunkey Rivers. Sept. 13th Richmond
Page 422
422 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Gov: NELSON TO Gov: BURKE OF N. CAROLINA. Sept. 13th "Sir, Williamsb'g Since I last wrote, no movement has been made by either Army. Much of our attention indeed, has been given to the means of subsisting so large a Force, & a difficult Task it has been to keep it in Being for some days past. Our Difficulties on this account seem now diminishing, but there still remain apprehensions that we shall not be altogether free from these embarrassments, unless our neighbouring States lend us some assistance. From your State we would wish to obtain Salt & Beef, of which there will be a great consumption: this Country at present affording very little Salted Provisions. I am Sir &c." Sept. 13th St. George Tucker,* Esqr commissioned Lieut: Col: Commdg: Mili- tia—Sept 12th 1781. to take rank from April 18th 1781— Gov: NELSON TO COLONEL LEWIS. Sept. 13th '-For the Troops under your Command, you will endeavour to procure Williamsb'g Provisions from the Inhabitants in your neighborhood, and you may assure them they shall have what they furnish replaced, if they require it. I am Sir, &c— Sept. 13th Gov: NELSON TO COL TAYLOR. "Sir, Williamsb'g Your Letter to the Marquis la Fayette, respecting the Flag Vessel at Urbanna, was this day referred to me. I cannot at present determine, in what Manner it will be proper finally to dispose of it, but think the negroes ought to be landed, that due attention may be paid to their situ- ation; the necessary Precautions being taken, that they be returned, or accounted for, when required. Other things must remain as they were when you wrote, until farther Orders." Sept. 13th Gov: NELSON TO HON'BLE DAVID JAMESON, LIEUT: GOVERNOR. "Sir, Williamsb'g There is at present a Scarcity of Salt in Camp, & from the great Consumption of fresh Meat, a large Quantity will be required. I must therefore beg that you will give Attention to this matter, & procure as much as you can. I have been informed that a vessel lately arrived at * Mem: found on the back of one of Gov: Nelson's letters.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 423
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 423 Richmond with Salt, which probably is still attainable. The two Armies 1781. remain in the Same Situation as when I last wrote. Sept. 13th I am—&c Gov: NELSON TO GENL LAWSON. Sept. 13th "There are several Horses in Captain Wilson's Corps that belong to Williamsb'g the public which will be of service to the French. These Horses, if they have not been appraised, must be valued by two Gentlemen of your Camp, and a return made of them. The Men who came down are upon a regular Tour of Duty, and cannot be discharg'd untill that is expired. Such of them as are on the impressed Horses, must be annexed to the Infantry of their County. Those who are mounted on their own Horses, and are armed with Swords, will be of service as Dragoons, and may draw forage." I am &c Gov: NELSON TO THE COUNTY LIEUTENANTS OF FAIRFAX, PRINCE WM., Sept. 13th STAFFORD, SPOTSYLVANIA, CAROLINE, HANOVER, & NEW KENT COUN- TIES. "The march of his Excellency Genl: Washington, with his Troops by Williamsb'g Land, makes it nccessary that the Roads he is to pass, be put into the best order. This you will immediately have done in your County. I am &c." Gov: NELSON TO MR. PIERCE COMM'Y GENERAL. Sept. 13th "I arrived yesterday in Camp & found the greatest Distress prevailing Williamsb'g for want of Flour & Meal. The Vessel you dispatched from Richmond is not yet down. This Navigation is too uncertain & tedious for imme- diate Purposes. Land carriage would best answer them, if it is possible to make use of it. I am satisfied you will do everything in your Power to send on supplies & never were your Exertions more necessary. * * * * "What adds to the Distress is that the Mills in this part of the Country have not water to grind the Corn which can be collected." * * "Any waggons which will bring Flour to Navigation or to Camp shall be immediately discharged— I am &c.
Page 424
424 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JNO: PIERCE TO THE COMMISSIONERS OF THE SEVERAL COUNTIES, FOR Sept. 13th COLLECTING PROVISIONS &c. "Sir, Richmond Mr. John Browne having declined the office of Commissioner & Commissary General for the state, & having myself undertaken to negotiate the business of these offices during the present emergency, do therefore entreat you to continue in office of Commissioner under the appointment you received from Mr. Browne, and attend particularly to such instructions as you have received from him, as well as to those received from myself on his behalf. And as there is a probability of the Army's suffering for provisions, without particular attention to your collections, 1 am induced to hope that exery exertion will be made by you & your assistants to procure supplies. Mr. Browne informs me he has given directions to several Countyes to collect another tenth part of the remaining stocks, except those which have been pillaged by the enemy, of such proportion—if you have not received those instructions you are hereby required to make the same collection, but not to include cattle under two years old, in the number; and hope you will urge the necessity of this proceeding, & prevail on the inhabitants of your County to furnish freely & voluntarily, as I make no doubt but Government will adopt measures more salutary in future to make compensation for sup- plies obtained for use of the Army—These reflections together with the promising prospect of capturing a formidable & subtile enemy, I hope will stimulate every friend to his County and Country to contribute cheerfully whatever they have in their power to furnish—Therefore relying on your exertions & the cheerful contributions from your County, I hope to be able to support the Army now in the field as well as the fleet of our good Allies, but without it they cannot be supported & of course the grand design agst: the enemy must prove abortive." I am Sir Your mo: obt Serv— &c &c. P. 8. You will collect the first tenth of cattle as first directed before you begin the second. Sept. 13th Council Chamber LT: GOV'R DAVID JAMESON TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, We are honored with your Letter of ye llth, and are most heartily sorry it is not in our power to remedy the evils you mention. Every step within our power to forward supplies of both flour & meal, has been taken. We have from day to day urged Mr. Pierce to send out Agents into all quarters to press this matter on the Commissaries appointed by Mr. Brown in the several Counties—Letters have been written to Gen-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 425
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 425 tlemen in different parts to use their iufluence with the people in this 1781. weighty business. Mr. Pierce has loaded some vessels as well as waggons Sept. 13th with flour, & more will immediately follow; and his Agents write him that some cattle have been sent to Hog Island — He hopes a considerable number, however he is to write by the express & promises to be very full in his information to you. Would it not be well for you to engage some active persons & send them out with Letters from you to hasten on supplies from all the different parts of the Country, and to engage Gentlemen to use their influence with the people to beat out their wheat & forward it to the Mills — You know Mr. Ross went to Petersburg to use his endeavours — He is gone there again & we have great hopes from his exertions in the article of flour. His knowledge of the means of transportation is great. You will certainly have supplies soon from Rappahannock. The Marquis, in one of his Letters, desired small vessels might be provided to water the French Fleet — This business you will be pleased to give the necessary Directions in. I inclose you a Letter from Colo Bland, with two from your Sons — You have also a letter from Governor Burke, which we expect you will chuse to answer yourself — A Letter from Governor Lee is also enclosed. I have the honour to be with the greatest regard Dr Sir, &c &c. COL: WM. DA VIES TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 13th "Sir, I find the greatest difficulty to prevail upon Officers to come for War Office the recruiting money. I would therefore request the favour of your Excellency to appoint some body at Camp for this business, and I will send the money to him. I would propose that an Officer of Artillery should be employed about it, as I know of nobody that is recruiting for them, and they want men much. I shall be glad to receive such orders from you, as you think can be executed and will promote the important business on hand — Indeed since your Excellency left us, we have no intelligence at all from the Army, nor do we know whether they are well or ill supplied' with pro- vision at this time. I have the honor to be with most respectfull Esteem, &c &c. COL: WM. DAVIES TO HON: MR. JAMESON. Sept. 13th "Sir, I have the honor to lay before the board "extracts" from two let- War Office, ters from Colo: Lee (Rd. H.) as they are on subjects of great importance Bichmond to the public interest, it is probable there may be some useful hints, 54
Page 426
426 CALENDAR OP STATE PAPERS. 1781. altho' written in haste and sent by two return expresses, who had car- Sept. 13th ried dispatches to him. Perhaps Mr. Ross has attended already to the several objects mentioned, which belong to the department of the Com- mercial Agent. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect, &c &c." Extracts referred to above. "Westmoreland Sept: 3d 1781." "I know that all the ideas which I am now going to suggest, come not properly within those of your department, but I cannot help here throwing them out that you may take occasion to mention them to the Governor and Council. The widow's mite was once acceptable, and in our system the giving attention to all hints that may be offered, will probably. be productive of consequences very salutary on many occa- sions. We have two very important points to manage, the recovery of our finances and the secure navigation of our Bay. It seems to me that the arrival of the fleet of our Ally, and the probable consequences thereof, will put it in our power to do both. The capture of armed ves- sels of different kinds, and Transports from the enemy, may enable us immediately, by securing some of the former, to take and keep the secure navigation of the Bay—And the possession of a proper number of transports, and their being quickly loadqd with public Tobacco, and immediately dispatched to Holland, may lay the foundation of a Loan of Specie, sufficient to purchase up the greater part, if not the whole of those paper bills that constitute so great and oppressive a part of our national debt. My design of being so quick in the transportation of Tobacco to Holland, is that the State may avail itself of the present and of the rising market, before individual Traders under a free navigation can fill the foreign markets—I should suppose that there would be no difficulty in obtaining from our Ally, a frigate or two to convoy these Tobacco loaded Ships off the Coast—And above all it is indispensably nccessary to exclude totally from this operation all private jobs and private views of every kind—Let the person trusted with this business in Holland be a man of sure probity of character, of discretion, knowl- edge of Trade, secrecy and activity and of undoubted affection to America. Some States by a prudent conduct of this kind, have already nearly freed themselves from the expenses of the war, and their people will bless their rulers, as they find themselves at the end of a long war, free, happy and discharged from oppressive and ruinous systems— Willing to discharge your Express immediately, I have written in great haste, but I think the principals laid down are good, and that in good hands they may be improved to great national benefits."
Page 427
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 427 Extract. 1781. Sept. 13th "Epping Forest "Sept: 5th 1781." "The ideas that I had the honor of suggesting to you in my letter by your returned express relative to the security of our Bay shores and navigation, as well as the means of releiving our ruincd finances, I beg leave again to press upon your mind. that they may in time be con- sidered by the Executive. It seems very probable that many vessels will be captured from the enemy by the French fleet, that may be purchased from them, and which will suit admirably for cruizing in the Bay, and within the mouths of our rivers, to suppress the piratical practices that will undoubtedly com- mence again so soon as the French fleet goes away. I am well informed that several companies are forming on the eastern shores of this State and Maryland, and on the Tangiers * to carry on this infamous and dis- tressing plan of plunder. And they will certainly do great injury in this way before our State can build and equip vessels to suppress them— and by building alone, it can be done, if this opportunity of getting captured vessels from our Ally should be lost—I think there are two or three very handsome vessels ready armed for the purpose, at Frazer's ferry, that were captured by the French 74 gun ship in the winter—1 pray you Sir, to press this business upon the Government. with all the earnestness that a plan deserves which must secure our extensive shores from endless plunder—our trade from molestation, and the public from the great constant expence of militia guards along the shores of the Bay and rivers. In fact it is for the honor of Government as well as greatly for the interest of the people—I am not aware of any souud objection to the plan proposed for retreiving our finances, unless it shall be said that seamen cannot be got for the purpose—But I should suppose that an active, intelligent person in this way, going to Philadelphia or Balti- more might procure Seamen enough for the purpose." Gov: NELSON TO RALPH WORMLEY JNR. Sept. 14th "Your Letter and Petition were delivered to me the day before yes- Williamsb'g terday—Col: Taylor has received orders to permit the Negroes to be landed, upon condition that they be delivered up when demanded. The other articles are to be detained with the Flag until further orders." "I am Sir, &c &c." *A group of Islands in the Chesapeake Buy, very near the dividing Line bet: Maryland and Virginia.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 428
428 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. To COL: SIR JOHN PEYTON, FROM "R. A. SECY—by order of the Gov- Sept. 14th ernor." Williamsb'g "As the large Force collecting about this Place requires every Exer- tion to be made for their subsistence, the Governor begs the Favour of you, to procure for the use of the Army as much Beef & Salt in your County as it can furnish, without distressing the People—The necessi- ties of the service oblige him to make these applications to Gentlemen of the greatest Influence in their respective Parts of the Country." Sept. 14th Gov: NELSON TO COL: INNES. Williamsb'g "It is probable that some Salt may be procured for public use in the County of Gloucester. The Army is at present much in want of it & you will oblige me if you will have, what is to be had, collected & secured. With Respect to Military operations on the North Side of York River, they must be left to your own Judgement. You will however be pleased to communicate to me every Event of any Importance: & you may rest assured that equal attention shall be paid to the Militia on both sides of the River. The necessary appointments in the Medical Departments or others in your Command, you will make. I am &c T. N." Sept. 14th WM. HOLT TO Gov: NELSON, in reply. Had received his appointment, and in view of the necessity pressing upon the Army, is willing to spare no effort to relieve it, but fears Teams cannot be got for conveying what can be furnished from the two Mills he has charge of, in as much as "50 to 100 barrels" a day may be expected from them—This will require ten to twenty waggons a day, and two days for each to "come & return"— A largo quantity of Flour is at the Forge, awaiting the coming of waggons—Concludes, "I will use every endeavour to accomplish the end of the appointment, & am with due respect, Your Excellencies most obed't Serv't &c. P. S. We have but 12 Flour in the House, which I have ordered to be bak'd to night for your use to morrow &c.
Page 429
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 429 FRANCIS PEYTON COUNTY LIEUT: TO HON: WM. DA VIES, &c. 1781. "Sir, Sept. 14th I have received sundry Instructing Orders from you, and can assure Loudoun Co. you that my whole time has been devoted to the execution of them, but it is with pain I inform you, that not withstanding this County abounds with wheat, there are but few that are friendly enough to have it pro- pared for the Mills, and without the exertions of Government, but little will be drawn from hence. I could therefore wish that some mode could be fallen on by you to enforce the people to thresh out and take the grain to proper mills. tho' I have so much business on my hands, I will employ some part of my time in assisting to have your Orders carried into Execution— I have Just march'd our militia, with a sufficient number of waggons with flour to be sent to Fredericksburg and there put themselves under the care of the Quarter-Master, to serve two months, wherever he chooses to send them. I must also inform you, that in procuring Waggons for this service, I have been much perplexed, for after having impressed them, the owners of some, by themselves or order, have taken in the night time a Wheel or something to render them useless, and I don't recollect any Law to punish them, if it could be proved! What is to be done in this case—After giving you this information I must beg leave to solicit a favour of you, which is that you'll be kind enough to procure from his Excellency the Governor a Commission for Lt: Col: George West who now commands the Regiment on their march, with blank Commissions for some of the Captains and Subalterns under his command—particularly an Ensign's Commission to Mr. John Ritchie who has a Brevet from me, knowing that he will make a good officer— I have the Honour to be with much Esteem &c." THOMAS PITT TO MAJOR CLAIBORNE, DEPTY: Q. M. Sept. 14th "Dear Sir, I, the other day at your request waited upon Col: Davies, Richmond with a list of the men ordered out for the use of your department, desiring his advice thereupon, as a very great majority of them had returned to their respective homes with a determination not to aid any longer, having been in service five or six days only. Col: Davies, upon my application to him, upon the subject, referred me to the Council, saying "that if the business had been conducted as it ought to have been, there wou'd be none of this confusion. It ought to have gone through his office. He was certain that the blame must lodge upon you, for the men wou'd not have behaved in this manner, unless you had given them some assurances; you must have made some private bargain with them—"
Page 430
430 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. I told him that you nor none of the Gentlemen in the department had Sept. 14th done any such thing, I was pretty well convinced—As the men were called out nothing more was necessary than to give them their instruc- tions how to proceed to their duty, which I believe was done, as well as Capt: Russell was master of— I then had Mr. Jameson (one of the Council) called out, and presented him the list, explaining to him as well as I was capable of, how the mat- ter stood, and the absolute necessity there was, for some steps to be taken with the men at this Critical Juncture, to make them perform their duties—He then carried it into Council, & after some time returned it to me, with this answer "I must lay it before Colo. Davies, as it was his business to take up all matters that came within the department of War, and that was one which came under his direction." I told him I had been with it to Col: Davies (thinking him the person under whose consideration a business of that nature came) and he • would have nothing to do with it—Just at this moment Colo. Davies came down from his office and Mr. Jameson spoke with him upon the subject, and advised him to write to the County Lieutenant about it, which he returned up into his office & executed, but seemed to be very warm indeed upon the occasion, repeating "that you had been very remiss" in not letting him know of this affair before you had done any- • thing in it"—I waited for the Letter to the County Lieutenant and received it, which I sent oft' by Express" &c. Sept. 14th COLO. WM. ROANE TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Essex Co. I send you inclosed an instrument of writing which gave Permis- sion to James Gillespie, master of the sloop "Providence" to proceed to Hobb's Hole on Rappahannock River, for the purpose of carrying Mary Boyes there & to return—" This vessel had come from York without having applied to the American officers for leave, and had run through the "Swatch in Mobjack Bay and steared wide of the French Ships"— He considers this proceeding not only illegal, but very suspicious, espe- cially as "one of the persons on board went on shore and was in conver- sation in Middlesex, for some time with a certain Mrs. Byrd who lives there, and is the wife of a man who ran over to, & still remains with the Enemy." A deserter named Joseph Warwick, found on board, had escaped—He sends the Captain and one Joseph Smith under guard as prisoners of war: the vessel he should dismantle and keep safely in that harbor—Has taken steps to recapture Warwick, who should "meet his just fate in due time"—Mrs. Boyes is the wife of Capt: Boyea in the British service &c—
Page 431
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 431 MAJOR THOS: POSEY TO COL WM. DA VIES. 1781. "Dr. Col: Sept. 14th Inclos'd, I have sent you 4 different returns, one accounting Cumberland for the number of Troops, one of cloathing, good, bad, and wanting, one of the quarter masters stores, and one of the Commissaries stores— You'l see from the returns our wants in many material matters; but exclusive of what you may find wanting for our present supplies, I must mention to you the great necessity of being furnished with several mate- rials which if not procured, it will be impossible to carry on the building of the Huts, and puting this place in proper order for the reception of Troops, as a genl. rendezvous"—Iron & steel cheifly needed, "with which to make some tools—also a whips, and cross cut saws and some files"— Desires to know whether his order upon the Commissioners of the pro- vision Law will be sufficient to procure supplies & forage from the neigh- boring Counties—Wants an order to impress waggons, when ever he may need them—"Salt and Spirits is exceedingly wanted here at present" Adds—"I mentioned to you in my letter of the fourth Inst: the dis- tressed situation of the Sick at this place, in not having any Physician or Physic—I wrote to Dr. Wilson at Charlottesville, but have received no answer yet" &c. I am respectfully dear Col Your obt servant &c &c "P. S. I am going on with the building of the huts as fast as I can with 4 or 5 borrowed axes: but if I can be furnished iron and steel, and the saws which I before have mentioned, I can soon have the Huts com- pleated." BOURNE PRICE, D. COM: MIL: STORES—TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 14th "Sir. In your last you wished for an explanation of the arms at this New-London Post. I assure you, so far as it was in my power have done it. As to our Smiths branding the arms V. S., get your information where you may, it is without foundation, except when the muskets were Branded on the Barrel and not the lock, in that case they were branded on the plate of the lock—I should consider myself a rascal in attempting to defraud our State out of a Single GUD. You must from every circum- stance believe I have no interest in keeping a single article of the States from you—I have delivered up my charge of the Stores to Capt Irish. I have informed him what I know of the matter, who will be with you in a few days with a return of the whole of the stores at this post." * * * * The Bearer Mr. Smyth is a Gent: worth your notice &c—he has been of infinite Advantage to this post by furnishing necessarys for the Business that could not by other means have been procured." I am with respect &c
Page 432
432 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. GAPT JOHN PEYTON TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Sept. 14th "Dear Sir, Albemarle I rec'd your favour of the 8th & am sorry to heare that Colo. Barrac B \\rnjte mai£es use of your conduct as an obstruction to the equipg. of his men. I am very sensible he must be much mistaken, as you always expressed a desire have his men clothed as quick as possible which was prevented by the want of a 'small quantity of Hnnen & thd. which I have received since I returned from Richmond. However that shall no longer be an excuse—The Stable Jack-coats—Shirts, & Overalls, which was mentioned in your order, is ready, & shall be sent to Richmond with the first clothing that goes, which will start from this place on Tuesday next, with orders to proceed to Richmond as soon as possible—I shall likewise foward on, agreable to your orders, all the ready made cloth- ing which I have on hand, except the Coats, Vests, & Breeches, which cannot be made use of, for want of buttons. * * * "I am happy to be informed that we shall shortly receive a supply of cloth &c, at this place, as the Taylors will be entirely Idle in a few days for the want of Materials to work on, & nothing is more distressing to me, than to see so many Idle persons, whose services are so essentially necessary, provided they could be regularly supplied—I have engaged 8 more Shoemakers, which added to the number I had before, will enable us to do something clever in the Shoe way, provided I was obliged to supply the Factory with shoe the'd, by working for the Country people who refuse to sell their the'd for paper money. Mr. St. Claire of Staunton inquires me he can procure a Quantity in his Neighborhood, provided he was supplied with money for that pur- pose—I wish you mention it to Mr. Ross. On my return from Richmond last, I made a Trial to engage a few men to work at the Hatters business, which are willing to engage at the following terms, viz—The Foreman of the Shop to receive 7s | 6d pr: day & the other hands 3s | 9d. each person employed to Oblige himself to make one coarse Hatt pr: day. 8 men I think will be sufficient to make Hatts for the Whole of the Virginia Troops—There will be want- ing for the use of the Factory, 2 large Kettles, from 16 to 20 Gall: each—2 potts 7 or 8 Gall: each—3 pr: Cards for combing—a Quantity of Logwood & Coperass for dying, & one pd: pumice stone which will be sufficient for 3000 Hatts— £ lb of Wool will make a Hatt—If the Materials can be got & you think it will answer to put it into execution, you will please let me know & I will confirm the contract with the Men, . which could not be done 'til I had your sanction for it. The Houses & any other little Matters, which may be wanting, can be put in readi- ncss in a few days. I am Dr Sir Yr: Obed Servt &c &c.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 433
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 433 CAPT: A. BOHANNAN TO COL: WM. DAVIES. From the complaints made, from Camp, he had determined to have no more arms repaired in the shops of private individuals; should require them to bring in their Accounts for what had been done, and discharge them—Thinks the Armorers employed by Mr. Anderson and those at the Fredericksburg Factory can repair as many arms as may be needed during the present campaign—Capt Pryore's letter of yes- terday, does not mention the want of Arms in Camp. 1781. Sept. 14th Bicbmond CAPT: ELEAZER CALANDER TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 14th "Sir, Agreeable to your Instructions, I imediately went to Petersbourg Richmond where I found three Vessels had allready been Dispatch'd & two others had been got up that were sunk—, which they are fitting out with all Dispatch—at Hood's I Engag'd a Large Vesel to go up & take a Load of Meal & flower—the owner promis'd to man her If he should be Excus'd from his Tower of duty, which I promis'd him. Collo: Bannister was so kind as to Interest himself in getting flower & meal Down from all Quarters—I find at this place one Vesel is gone Down with a Load & another will go oif Imediately with 200 Barrels, so that I hope the Army will not be in want of bread. 1 shall Imediately set out for Fredericksburg & see if any thing can be done there—after which I shall be Ready to do any thing in my power for the Common good. I am with Respect your Excellency's most ob Servt— &c &c. Gov: NELSON TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Sept. 14th "Sir, His Excellency General Washington arrived here, between four and Williamsb'g five o-clock this afternoon. The first division of his army is coming down the Bay, and is every moment Expected. Our operations will now grow very serious, and it will be incumbent on us to exert our- selves, that there may be no want of ammunition. I need not urge you to attend to this matter. I must again beg leave to recommend, what I have so often mentioned, that every means be made use of to get waggons in to the Service." I am Sir, &c. 65
Page 434
434 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Gov: NELSON TO JNO: PIERCE (Commissary). Sept. 14th Williamsb'g "His Excellency Genl: Washington is just arrived & the first Division of his Army is every moment expected—The Provisions in Camp are scarcely sufficient to subsist the present Army for three days longer & should the wished for Reinforcements arrive before a fresh supply of Provisions, Flour at least, is received, it gives me Pain to think of the Situation wo shall be in. Let me intrcat you therefore to leave nothing untried which promises the smallest Relief to us. Not only great quan- tities of Flour, but also Beef will be wanting—All applications with respect to Supplies of Provisions are made to me, & the apprehensions I am under lest there should be a Deficiency create a perpetual Uneasi- ncss. Write often & as briefly as you please your certainties & Pros- pects, that I may know our Dependence." I am &c— T. N. "Prices Hargroves, Quarles' & Rocky Mills." Sept. 14th Gov: NELSON TO HON: D. JAMESON. "Sir, Williamsb'g His Excellency Gen'l Washington arrived here about two Hours ago. The first division of his Army is coming down the Bay & may be expected every moment—A very little time now will determine the fate of York & with it probably that of the Continent. But what exertions will it require to subsist properly so great an Army? I feel the utmost anxiety on this account & cannot forbear, though I am persuaded it is needless, pressing you to urge to the greatest and most unremitted activity and industry every officer within your reach, whose business it is to provide forage or provisions for the Army—Beef, Flour, Corn & tho means of Transportation should be principal objects of attention; and the Country cannot censure any encouragement which is given to those who will lend their aid on this occasion— His Excellency appears to be in good health & spirits— I am Sir, Your most obedient & very H'ble Servant &c &c. Sept. 14th JOHN TIMBERLAKE CLK: Q. MASTER—&c TO MAJR: R'D CLAIBORNE. "Dear Sir, Richmond Inclosed you have the List of the men's names, which were ordered first by the Governor, also specifying those who have refused doing any further duty as to that tour, which they say was ordered by
Page 435
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 435 the County Lieutenant, which they think the proper person to command 1781. them. As to my knowledge of the matter, thought at the time I Sept. 14th obtained the order that they were to serve till regularly discharged as other guards for the Quarter Master's department, which have been furnished us hitherto without the smallest dispute—I hope this will convince Colo Davies that Capt Russell nor any of his assistants has not made any private agreement with those guards." I am dear Sir with great esteem &c &c. Names of the men referred to above. Jesse Roper, Wm. Barker, Zenith Tate, Rob't Bold, Isaac Armstead, Alexander Buckhannon, John Barret, John McKeand, Samuel Ege, Wil- liam White, Isham Freeman, Peter Mauzy, John Price, Gelly Lewis— "these men have gone homo, with a determination not to assist any longer"—Wm. Mathews, Joseph Bailey, John Clarke, John Roper, Wm. Bennit and Alex: Turpin, "now on duty." Gov: NELSON TO COL: JAMES HENDRICKS. Sept. 14th "Sir, The large Force collecting at this Place, will occasion so great a Williamsb'g consumption of Flour, that we cannot depend on procuring sufficient supplies from the adjacent Country, but must endeavour to draw from Points more remote. The command which we now possess of the Water, will enable us to do this with more Ease & Expedition than formerly; & I flatter myself the assistance of every one will be cheerfully given on an occasion which promises such great advantages. Your character induces me to apply to you to undertake the collecting & conveying of flour from Alexandria, at which Place I am informed, there is a very considerable Quantity—As the greatest difficulty will be to support the Army for the present, I must also request that your supplies be sent with all possible Dispatch. If Spirits or Salt can be procured in your part of the Country, be so good as to take for public use all that you can find. We have been much embarrassed for want of waggons. As your Part of the Country abounds in them, I must also give you the Trouble of impressing as many as you can. The great Probability there is, that they will soon be returned, will I hope reconcile the People to a measure, which nothing but the necessities of the Service would incline me to adopt."
Page 436
436 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. * TO WM. HOLT ESQR. Sept. 14th "Sir, The great necessity there is for an immediate supply of provisions will no longer permit us to rely solely on the Officers appointed to col- lect them. In looking round the Country, I can think of no person, who from his activity and known attachment to his Country can be of such service as yourself—this consideration I am sure will be a sufficient excuse for the trouble this will cause you. You will be pleased to take charge of your own Mills and that of Mr. Dandridge. You will by every possible means procure wheat to be manufactured at these mills—if that cannot be got, then employ them in grinding meal. If no vessel can be got immediately, send all that can be ground by land. To effect this, you are hereby empowered to impress waggons, carts, horses and negroes, and to call on the County Lieut. for the aid of his Militia. At this time I flatter myself there will be no necessity to make use of compulsion, but if any inducement can be wanting, you may assure the Country people that no team employed in this business shall be impressed, during the time it is employed, and as long after as you shall think just—Explain to them the situation of the Army & I am assured their virtue will do the rest." I am Sir, Yr: very hum: Servt. Sept. 14th Gov: NELSON TO JOHN SYME ESQR. "Sir, Williamsb'g I was informed by Mr. Pierce the Commissary General, that he had engag'd your Millsf for the purpose of supplying the Troops with Flour, but I have this day been told that they are not employ'd in that busi- ness. General Washington is arriv'd and the first division of his Troops may be expected hourly. . Unless supplies can be furnish'd with expe- dition, the favourable opportunity that now presents itself of releiving us from the inconveniences of War, may be lost. Let me entreat you to lose no time in setting about this necessary business, for which your Mills are so well adapted. I cannot pretend to make any contract with you on this head, but thus far you may rely, that every endeavour shall be used to procure a generous allowance. T. N." *This letter although without signature there is no doubt that Govr Nelson is the author. f Rocky-Mills—in Hanover Co.
Page 437
CALENDAR'OF STATE PAPERS. 437 * TO CAPT:—ROBERTS. 1781. "Sir, Sept. 14th You will immediately repair to the South side of James River and take charge of all vessels that can be useful in transporting provision for the use of the army. One vessel at least must be sent over with meal from Scott's Mill, and those in the neigbourhood. You are hereby empowered to impress vessels of all kinds and negroes to navigate them. If necessary you may also apply to the Commanding Officer for the aid of his militia." DAVID Ross TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 14th The vessels intended for Charleston, with Tobacco, to be sold for releif Richmond of Officers, prisoners at that place, nearly ready to sail—Asks for instruc- tions. RICH'D YOUNG ASSISTANT D. Q. MASTER TO COL: DAVIES—in reply. Sept. 14th "I thank you for your approbation on my Idea of Brigadeing the Frederic'sb'g Waggons, which I am sorry to Inform you seems to como in slowly"— He had sent off two that day with clothing—two from Loudoun County just passed on their way to Richmond with flour—He had written pressing letters to Culpepper and elsewhere, urging the collection of waggons and provisions to be sent at once to Camp—He should in future send all the flour & meal collected by water, as the waggons would be needed at Camp—Flour barrels exceedingly scarce. COL: DAVIES TO HON: MR. JAMESON, enclosing extract of a letter from Sept. 14th Col: Holmes at Winchester, asking instructions as to the disposition of prisoners of war taken by the French at sea; in regard to the differences existing between seamen and soldiers in the exchange; and the rights "of this state in contradistinction to those of another." Col: Holmes had just received one hundred and fifty prisoners taken in War Office South Carolina, whom ho should send at once to Jamestown to be disposed of, as he knew of no other "governing principles" of exchange than those agreed upon in the Cartel between Genl: Greene and Lord Corn- wallis—It is evident to him, the present "Commissary of prisoners" was a very inefficient one. *Without signature but no doubt from Govr Nelson.
Page 438
438 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. DAVID Ross TO DAVID JAMESON ESQR., laying before him the claim of Sept. 14th Messrs. Clark & Bentley, which it would take upwards of "800 hhds: of Tobacco" to pay. Richmond- The credit of the state suffering by the delay—When he gave the State's certificates he fully expected that Congress would have reim- bursed the State for her expenditures in the Western Country—Again asks for instructions in regard to the vessels ready and about to sail for Charleston with the tobacco, especially as there is uneasiness among the officers at that place "on account of this remittance"—He hopes the debts will not require as much tobacco "as at first expected." Sept. 16th ANDREW WODROW TO COL DAVIES. "Sir, Hampshire So many unsurmountable difficulties occur in discharging the duty of a Commissioner of the provision law, that I am under the necessity of declining that appointment"—Paper money having totally ceased to pass, he can give the people no assurance of their being paid an equiva- lent for their supplies—" The consequence is obvious that nothing will be obtained without compulsion, which is at best a disagreeable mode of proceedufe—the provisions now in the County are fast spoiling (it being flour), those who have Waggons, absolutely refuse to carry it away, without being paid for their labour in specie or its real Value—The Grain (cheifly wheat) on hand for the Specifick Tax is nearly all destroyed. no barrels to be had, if it was to be ground up into Flour. in short I see no way left but to make immediate sale of the whole. as a few weeks more will totally ruin both the Flour & Wheat. I might moreover observe, that was anything to be obtained, I have neither Law, nor any other mode of instruction to direct me. I am sorry I am under the necessity of giving yon this disagreeable relation, tho' strictly true, and am with much respect, Your most obed. Servt" &c &c. Sept. 16th MAJOR RD. CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES—explaining his course in regard to the men who had deserted from the Boats and had refused to return, and giving the authority under which they were ordered out to that service. Richmond Adds "This Sir, I hope will convince you that neither myself or one employed by me, gave any assurances or made any private contract with the men. With respect to your observation, that was made with .some warmth, "that the order for the men should have passed through
Page 439
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 439 your office" I am sorry I did not know your method of doing busi- 1781. ness, or I wou'd have strictly conformed to it; for be assured there is no Sept. 16th person who wishes to have every transaction carried through a regular channel more than I do. When you come to reflect sir, that I was unacquainted with your rules, I flatter myself you will find I did not merit your displeasure; and in future I wish you to consider, that if any procedure of mine is not governed with propriety, it will be for want of information. Notwithstanding the manncr in which you treated my application, I am disposed to beleive, that had the order for the men, have been referred to you from the Council, there wou'd not have been this confusion; but as the steps which I took was according to former custom, I cannot think myself blamable. I have only to observe that the neglect of such a matter is so gross a violation of trust, that I now communicate my entire approbation than an enquiry shall be made, and the delinquent punished. I shall be much obliged to you to use your authority to bring out the men, as no transportation can be carried on with the small boats, for want of them. In consequence of your first recommendation respecting establishing a magazine at Shirley, I informed my Agents at this place & Petersburg of the plan, and directed the latter to appoint a storekeeper to receive & transport the supplies agreeable to your advice. I have now conferred with Mr. Pierce upon the subject, and it will be done as soon as provisions, Boats & men are ready to play in the prongs of the River, so as to keep the sail Vessels going below. I have used every effort in my power to expedite the business, not only at this place, but gencrally throughout the State, & shall continue to do so, but am sorry to find, that for want of induce- ment many difficulties are thrown in my way. Let me intreat, Sir, that something may be done to draw the people with their means of trans- . portation into the service, willingly. I find them so opposed to every measure that is oppressive, that it is almost impossible to effect anything of consequence that way. Many of the Teamsters upon the late occa- sion have deserted with their waggons, after throwing their loads out at improper places: others with their waggons where sent for loads; and others with their Teams, leaving the waggons exposed—Certain it is, there is no way to remedy this evil, but by inducing them by some way or means to serve willingly." I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Your obedient Servant" &c &c. MAJOR CHARLES DICK TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 16th His letter of the 10th inst. had been delivered to Mr. Mercer, who Frederic'sb'g "who has every day since being going to Richmond but something or,
Page 440
440 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. other has detained him"—He has not since had any other opportunity Sept. 16th of a conveyance. "The Depretiation is now from 800 to 1000 for one; I refer to what I have wrote on that head, and with regard to the Tradesmen.—I yes- terday had onc of my Horses press'd & carried off by an injudicious Press Master, and under Orders of our C'ty Lieut:—In vain did 1 urge the nccessity of my having two Horses to do the Country's Business, which cannot be done without, and although the Trade of pressing is frequently here, my Horses were always Exempt, for, was I to hire Horses, if to be got to hire, every time I wanted for the service of the Factory, it would amount to a great deal of money—" He then begs for protection against a repetition of this, and for authority to draw forage for two horses, as they "richly earn it in the Country's service." No arms had of late, been sent to the Factory for repairs—He is always ready to meet any commands ho shall be honored with &c. Sept. 16th MAJOR CHAS: DICK TO Ma. JAMESON—in reply. Frederic'sb'g Letters for him from Richmond frequently reached him by accident, the Express coming and going without his knowing anything of it—He had written Col: Davies, giving him all necessary information as to work done & delivered &c— He is glad to know that such an active gentleman is "Commiss'er of the War Office," and if properly supported will find in himself onc equally efficient— Concludes "That no Anns shall be delivered, but on Orders from the Executive or War Office is most agreeable to me. Tho' the late fears of the Enemy coming this way, made .a necessity for it, as you will please see by the account of Delivery, and every officer behaved like a Prince." "I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect" &c &c. Sept. 16th DECLARATION OF CAPT: LATOUCHE (original in French)—translation— in regard to seizure of cargo of his vessel by Col: Kenner of Northumberland Co. On monday 10th Sept:, he having run aground on Smith's Point, Col: Kenner came on board his Brig, and told him he must unload his vessel, because she would go to pieces upon the first gale of wind; that there were numerous English barges cruising along that coast, burning vessels and taking their cargoes—&c—To this he replied, that he could not pre- vent the coming of bad weather, but that he had ten guns on board, with which he could keep off the English, and had no fear of them— This did not satisfy him, and it was apparent that he desired to get pos-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 441
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 441 session of and use his cargo of rum. The day after this interview while 1781. on shore, Col: Kenner informed him there were two barges coming to Sept. 16th take the vessel; but they proved to be only fishermen. On the 12th Sept: the Colonel again came on board his vessel and made requisition for the rum accompanying it with threats, and insisting he would be responsible for every thing, and with his militia would guard and pro- tect the cargo. The Colonel, tired of any longer trying to induce him to give up the vessel and cargo, seized it in spite of himself, and at once his men began by cutting the rigging, and stealing clothing &c. Under these circum- stances he was obliged to unload, and accordingly gave orders to do so. Thirty-six hogsheads had been landed, over which he had placed a watch, but it had been reported to him, then Col: Kenner at once tapped one and drew off buckets full of the liquor; which was carried to his house, and instead of being guarded was drunk by his militia. Upon inspec- tion, he found that many of the hogsheads had been bored—He demanded that they should be guaged, but no one was found to perform this duty. On the 14th Sept: ho got his vessel afloat again, and upon going ashore to demand the hhds: landed, Col: Kenner thought proper to keep • twenty. He had on board a Captain from Annapolis, who guaged the twenty kept by Col: Kenner, in which were found to be 2146 gallons, for which he had taken a receipt. This statement ho affirms is true, and is made with the intention of claiming the twenty hhds: rum. Gov: NELSON TO MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE. Sept. 16th "Sir, I am just informed that a Brig loaded with Rum, a prize to the French Williamsb'g Fleet is cast away in Little Wicommoco River on Potomac. I have sent orders to the County Lieutenant to secure the cargo, and afford every assistance in his power to the Captain—The distresses that our Army may Suffer for want of Liqueurs, induce me to wish that the cargo might be procured for the use of the Troops, which we can pay for in Flour—If you do not think it improper, I could wish the Admiral might be applied to for it—He should be informed of the accident: which I would do were I so happy as to be acquainted with the French Language." BRIG: GENL: A. SPOTSWOOD TO COL: WM. DAVIES,—Sending Mr. John Sept. 16th Washington, Quarter Master 1st Legion with Return of the 3d Legion, and requisition for Tents, Camp Kettles & Knapsacks. Col: Mead on his arrival at Richmond, would let his wants be known— As the Officers are to be furnished as the Continental Officers, begs the favor of his having a Marque tent made for him as soon as possible & 56
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 442
442 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. four horsemen's tents for his Field Officers—In the mean time he will Sept. 16th be contented with Soldiers tents made rather larger than the men's— Requests that Mr. Washington be informed where he is to get arms. Sept. 16th COL: WM. DA VIES TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, War Office, I have paid every attention in my power to the requisitions you mon mai£e, and hope for better times, tho' I cannot say how soon—I have recommended to Major Claiborne and Mr. Pierce, to establish a Maga- zine at Shirley, to which place every thing from Richmond, Osborne's and Petersburg as well as the neighbouring Counties, may be sent in waggons and small boats, and from thence in the Sailing vessels be transported to the nearest landing to the Army. I have urged this mat- ter: it is only approved, but nothing more is done. The party of Hen- rico Militia that were directed by your Excellency to be employed in the boats, up and down the river as occasion may require, after making one trip left the boats, being no more than five days gone, and refused to stay any longer on board. I have made every enquiry of Colo Southall and Major Claiborne, have examined the orders you gave, and taken every step that could give light to the justice of their claim of a discharge after one trip, and can find not one tittle to warrant their pre- tence. I enclose to your Excellency the last militia law, which I think makes it a proper step to apprehend them and send them to Camp, where they may be tried according to martial law—I shall first try the effect which the last clause of the third paragraph may have upon the officer who commanded them. Should it answer no good purpose, I propose as I mentioned before to have them apprehended by Col: Dab- ney's troops, who are hourly expected, and to send them to your Excel- lency to be tried by the law martial. I would however be glad of your Excellency's directions in this matter, as also what shall be done with Col: Barbour of Culpepper, who notwithstanding the Conductor's express orders to bring on the arms to Camp were shown to him, has yet had the assurance to seize upon 29 boxes of arms coming from the Northward, and has given them out among the people of his County. As there are but two members of the Council who attend, I can do nothing but state his conduct to your Excellency, tho' I confess were my own wishes to prevail, I should most assuredly have him tried by a Court Martial, and if convicted as an Officer, I would afterwards prose- cute him at common law for his misconduct as a citizen—I hope your Excellency will in the severest manner curb this spirit of licentiousness, which if not soon put a stop to, will totally defeat every design of gov- ernment, and eventually destroy the reputation of the Executive authority, and the particular credit of your Excellency's administration. t
Page 443
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 443 The waggons from Augusta are on their way, I am told, with some 1781. supplies of whiskey. Sept. 16th I hope your Excellency will excuse the haste with which I write. I have been so perplexed with doing Mr. Armstead's business, that I have not leisure to do my own. I will take the liberty to write you moro fully on this subject at another time, as it is a matter of some conse- quence. I have tho honor to be with the most respectful esteem Your Excellency's very obed Servt <fcc &c. Gov: NELSON TO MR. CHARLES LEWIS. Sept. 16th "Sir, I will be obliged to you, if you will undertake the collecting of Williamsb'g spades, axes, Hatchets, shovels, & hilling Hoes—& you are hereby empowered, to take for the public use, all you can find in the Town or adjacent Country. You will keep an account of the Tools you receive from each Person, that they may be returned, when the service no longer requires them. You are also empowered to impress Negroes to bring the Tools to such Place or Places as you shall think it convenient to have them collected at." Gov: NELSON TO COL: EENNER. Sept. 16th "The Rum mentioned in your Letter cannot be impressed for our use, Williamsb'g as it belongs to the French Fleet. 1 desire you will be particularly care- ful to secure it from damage, and give every assistance to tho Captain that is in your power—The Admiral will no doubt send up for it imme- diately. If it is necessary order your Militia out to protect it." DAVID JAMESON TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 16th "Dear Sir, According to daily custom I called on Mr. Pierce—he thinks Richmond things are now in such a train as to keep the Army properly supplied with both meat & Bread—We have written letters to such persons in the several Counties round, as we thought would expedite the provision business, and have advised the appointing Active Men to Superintend the Commissioners & Commissaries & beside ample pay have given them exemptions from Militia duty,—in short every thing we could think of, that would give a spring to this momentous concern we have endeavour'd to set in motion.
Page 444
444 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Col Taylor sent from Gloucester Some prisoners of War, and with Sept. 16th them a Iverson, who was suspected of giving aid to the Enemy—he made his escape from the guard. Col. Taylor desired advice respecting a Flag vessel he had stop'd—this is a matter that does not belong to the Executive—He will I suppose apply to the Commander of the forces, or put her into the Court-of Admiralty. Mr. Ross did not agree for any Salted Pork—if you think it necessary that some should be procured in Carolina, you will be pleased to write to Mr. Newton. He must not engage a payment in Money of the pres't Emission, and indeed I do not expect the holders will take paper Money—suppose ho agrees to give flour at a future day, in exchange for it. Mr. Robertson the Con: Commissary has not had any Money—You may remember you promised to confer with the Marquis on the occa- sion, and try whether money cannot be got from Congress for him—if nothing else can be done, and he must have money, I suppose we must spare a little of our small stock. Your letter of the llth did not get here til late on the 13th w'ch I was surprised at; but on enquiry I find the Stationed Riders are called in, which I think is wrong—will you have them established again, or are they not necessary—In my letter of the 13th, I mention to you that we had not exceeded four members since you left us—that evening Gen: Lewis & Mr. Webb left us, so that there now remains only Mr. Ambler & myself, and when there will be more is very uncertain. The Executive, my dear Sir, were held in small repute before, must they not become quite contemptible—Certain it is I cannot consent to stay here to hear the daily complaints & reproaches of the people with- out the power of doing anything—When you reflect on the injury done the community by this want of government, and how scon the people will think themselves free from all restraint, I know you will do all in your power to remedy or rather prevent the evil—and that I think will not be, but by returning to the Board—The Members of Council will attend if you arc present, but will be indifferent about it if you are absent. We know as little of what is going foward below, except by vague reports as if we lived at Otahite" past 4 o'Clock. Just as I was about to finish, I was favoured with your letter dated the 13th, mentioning the want of Salt. I gave orders immediately and 100 bushels will be sent by the next Vessel— Your letter for Mr. Burke I deliv'd to Capt: Young—he tells me he has discontinued the riders on that route too, but will immediately send off your letter— I am with the greatest Esteem and respect, Yr: Excellency's Mo: Obe't Serv't—&c &c.
Page 445
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 446 DAVID Rose TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, I am just now honour'd with letter of the 12th instant—I have been very uneasy at the wants of the Army, and unhappy at your situa- tion, being a witness to their distress would be more sensibly hurt—1 have been at Petersburg and done all in my power—three small vessels were sent off—The Want of Vessels was a great inconvenience—I sett the people to raising some that were sunk & in a few days there will be a plenty of them to answer the purpose of transporting the Flour & Meal— I am going about 50 miles up James River on this side & shall return on the south side—I have already wrote to the Millers & expect a con- siderable supply from that quarter & of better quality than what has generally been sent—I shall wait upon the Commissary and advise him, as I did at first, not to depend on one small part of the Country, because it is near him, but to draw supplies from the wheat Country in general— by this means the people will not be distressed by sending supplies beyond their abilities, the flour will be much better and there will be plenty of it— You may rely on my best endeavours—The depredations of the Enemy along this River has disordered matters exceedingly—Bolting Cloths destroyed mills injured & vessells sunk or destroy'd—When I have done every thing I can, I shall wait upon you, and am with great respect— Your most humble Serv'fr— &c &c— 1781. Sept. 16th Richmond MR. JOHN PIERCE TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 16th "Sir, I last evening received your Excellency's letter of the 12th Inst: Richmond describing the distresses the Army was in for the want of Flour & Meal— I have already wrote you on the subject, but observe you have considered the navigation too uncertain & Tedious for immediate purposes & recommend land carriages to be used—I wish Sir it was in my power to procure them, as well as every other necessary required. no oppor- tunity shall escape that offers the least Assistance but what I will attend to, and shall be happy to merit the confidence you repose in me, by my exertions—I have this day had a conference with Col: Carrington & Major Claiborne & hope in future the means of transportation will be better attended to than heretofore, having had assurances that the strictest attention shall be paid to that business— I have the Hon'r to be, Yr: Excellencies Ob't Serv't— &c &c.
Page 446
446 CALENDAR of STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 16th Williamsb'g Sept. 16th 10 o'clock A. M., Williamsb'g Sept. 16th Richmond Gov: NELson To THE LT: Governor (David Jameson). “Sir, So great a number of Horses are required for present service, that every Expedient we can adopt will scarcely be sufficient to answer the Demand—It is my wish therefore that you will order down all the Horses taken from, or left by the Enemy w'ch are in the Commissioners or Quarter Masters Hands. As these Horses are already out of the Proprietor's Possession, this application of them will be least felt by the People— The supplies of Flour &c come in but slowly, so that I am still full of anxiety on this account— The Count De Grasse has returned & increased his Fleet with two British Frigates—While he was in Chace, the Rhode Island Fleet for. tunately got in—This latter has brought upwards of six hundred land Forces & many implements for a Seige—No movement has yet been made by our Army—It is said the Enemy are out as high as the half way House in Force this morning.” Gov: NELson To CoI, WM. DAVIES. “Sir, Yours of the 13th Inst: is just received—I have written more than once to you since my arrival here & mentioned the Particulars, wherein I wished for your best Endeavors. The procuring of waggons is a mat- ter of so much importance that I cannot help again recommending it to your attention. You will also oblige me by sending a Copy of the late Militia Law. Our Army has not yet begun to operate, but con- tinues nearly in the same Position as I found it—The Count De Grasse has returned from pursuing the British Fleet. He has taken two Frigates & is joined by the Rhode Island Fleet. In the latter some 600 land Troops— - Permit me once more to desire that you will press those whose Busi- ness it is, to send Provisions with all possible Expedition. I have just received Information that 3000 of the Northern Army are come into James River.” MAJoB Rich’D CALL, L. JDRAgoons To Gov: NELson. Cornet Yarborough the bearer, had been sent to the Northern Coun- ties to impress horses for the cavalry but had met with little success— He had also written to the different County Lieutenants to furnish twenty five horses apiece for this service; but as it is doubtful whether the people will supply them, he asks for a “Letter to the Governor of Maryland respecting the horses which are or may be carried there.”
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 447
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 447 Request an order to purchase one hundred Saddles said to be at Alex- 1781. andria for sale; also for thirty horses owncd by a Mr. Wright in Rich- Sept. 16th mond. CAPT: J. PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Sept . 16th "Dear Sir, Your favor of the 12th was just deliv'd me by Express, Camp inclosing the returns, for which I am much obliged to you. Your Williatnsb'g motives I think very justifiable in giving preference to provisions sent down before Mil: Stores, but at the same time the reasons of this deten- tion not being known, I naturally undergo the imputation of remissness. I am sorry that Mr. Frazer is absent or that'there is not some person in his place, who will forward down the articles, particularly for the Rifle- men: You mention nothing of their being sent on—Musket Cartridges are amazingly wanted—I have not 10,000 on hand & expect drafts for 100,000 in a few days. I am at the greatest loss immaginable to know what number of Military Stores did arrive from the North'd as Capt: Bohannan was five weeks w'th them at & about Fauquier Co. Ho. I certainly think he might tell. I have heard that 200,000 Musket Car- tridges came on, which have been requested to be sent down above twenty times. Genl: Weedon has likewise interested himself in getting them down, which I was in hopes would prove effectual, tho' last night I had a draft from him for 10,000 M. Cartridges, to be sent to Gloster where ho is Commanding—I am afraid there has not so many Cartridges arrived from the North'd as was supposed—The Genl: Return of all the State Mil: Stores, particularly the powder I want much, as I am call'd on as I expected & can give no satisfactory answer—I do immagine, we shall want a Larger quantity of powder for the seige, tho' have not been call'd on as yet, but think it w'd not be amiss to order down the whole we have to West Ham, which I am afraid will not be half enough—I am in great hopes that a sufficiency has arrived from Rhode Island, with that Fleet & Garrison, which I am happy to inform you came in day before yesterday w'th Count de Grasse, who sail'd out after the British some time ago. The Richmond & Iris Frigates have also arrived as Prizes to the Count. The French & American Troops are hourly expected from the head of Elk, w'ch hope in a few days assist in scrib'g: out our first line of circumvalation around the Gentry at York. The Marquee has not yet been taken out of the valise for want of a pole; as soon as I get one made, I shall deliver it to the Governor." 1 am, Dr Sir with regard & esteem &c &c.
Page 448
448 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. HON: DAVID JAMESON TO Gov: NELSON. Sept . 17th "D'r Sir, Richmond Yesterday I had the honor of your Letter of the 14th. The pleasure I should have enjoyed by the information that our great and good General was arrived in Camp, was lessened by the reflection that we are deficient on our part after all these exertions of our Friends to save our Country; and the grand object may miscarry by the unaccount- able neglect and indolence, to say no worse, of our own people—I wrote you the 15th that we had taken every step we could think of to animate the people, and to inspire the agents of all denominations with new life & activity. If there is still anything we can do, be assured it will not be left undone, our whole time and attention being employed on the grand object of our subsistence—I speak of Mr. Ambler and myself, for as I wrote you the 15th, we are the only shadow of an Executive left at this place. As you do not say (as before) that there was no provision at Camp, we hope you had a temporary supply. Let us hope that by the exertions made and making the stock will increase daily—Had we the free navigation of York River, great quantities of corn and some flour might be carried down the different branches— I have the honour to be with the greatest esteem D'r Sir, Your Excellency's mo: obed't hb. Serv't." Sept. 17th COL: THOS: NEWTON TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir: Monday I this moment received the within, which will shew the necessity N Mk 'of some men here. A little ammunition will be wanted. Capt: Weeks will I doubt not use his best endeavors, but a few strangers will add spirit to the good men hereabouts & soon suppress those bad men who commits such ravages— I am, yr: Excy's ob't Serv't, &c &c— Enclosure referred to. Monday Sept: 17th 1781. "D'r Sir, I have Seek into the Situation of People and I find a Great Many Disefected in the County, Whom I think Should be Brought to Justice, And I am Getting to Gether My Men Upon that intent and Capt Butt's- Men Will Join me as Soon as Possible and then I Inten to Go Amongst them and Bring as Many as I Gett to Head Quarters, Where I hope that they Will Meett with that Punishment Due to a Tory and
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 449
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 449 a Enemy to the Country. I shall be Very Glad if you will acquaint the 1781. Govener With My Proceedings as soon as Possible, Which shall not be Sept. 17th Wanting in Any thing that Lays in My Power. I have no news to Write— from yours, &c— AMOS WEEKS." MAJOR R. CLAIBORNE TO COLO: DA VIES, in reply. Sept. 17th He should communicate at once with the Deputy Q. Master in Mary- Richmond land respecting the Cartridge Boxes belonging to Virginia left in that state; and should notify Col: Hendricks at Alexandria to attend to their transportation &c—continues "I thank you for the information respect- ing the Arrival of his Excellency Gen'l Washington, and the necessity of fowarding Wagons, horses & provisions to the Army—I assure you Sir, that I have used every method in my power to prevail on the agents to send on the Articles you mention, and I know they have exerted themselves; but'there is such a backwardncss among the people that I really dread the consequences. When the Agents first began upon this occasion, what with their influence and the Warrants they are possessed of procured a considerable number of Wagons & Teams and sent them on, loaded with provisions & forage; but the abuse of trust which many of the Drivers have been guilty of, has retarded the business very much—I really know not how to remedy it. I have nothing to give to induce the people to turn out willingly, or to continue when they are out; and to argue with them on the necessity or propriety of the case is totally useless: for the words are no sooner past than they arc forgot. However all that I can say is, that all that is in my power to do, shall be done." ***** COL: WM. DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR. Sept. 17th "Sir, In obedience to your Excellency's order, I enclose you a Return of War Office, military stores not issued, as delivered to me by the Commissary Gen- Biclamond eral of that Department. There is no mention made in it, of the Arms at Fredericksburg, as I am utterly unable to procure from Major Dick any intelligence of the work done at the gun factory under his directions. I have lately received intelligence that there are two thousand cartridge boxes lying somewhere in Maryland, that are the property of this State. I have taken effectual measures to have them bro't forward without delay. From every information I can obtain, it appears that the people are using their endeavors to have their grain manufactured for the army, tho' there does not appear the same willingness to furnish their waggons and teams. Twelve or fifteen however, are daily expected 57
Page 450
450 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. from Augusta and some more from other parts of the Country, tho' not Sept. 17th many. I do not relax in my endeavors to procure them, nor shall I till a sufficiency is provided—I had the honor to address myself to your Excellency on the conduct of some of the Militia of this County, employed on the boats at first by your order, but who deserted that business in five days. The boats are still idle for want of them, aud I must solicit your Excellency's directions for my conduct in this affair. If some rigorous measures are not adopted, especially at this season of prosperity, government may find it difficult to enforce its orders, should a change of prospect take place. I mentioned in the same letter the conduct of Colo. Barbour of Culpepper, whose criminal interference with respect to the arms, has deprived Col: Dabney of the opportunity of equipping his regiment of old Soldiers in any measure fit for the field— By the same kind of licentiousness the County of Fairfax has seized upon 204 Cartouch boxes, that were intended for that battalion, and they must march down without." Sept. 17th THOS: NEWTON JNR: TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Norfolk By Capt: Travis, I take tho Liberty of informing your Excell'cy that agreeable to your directions, I proceeded down immediately & appointed Commiss'rs in the Counties of Nansemond, Norfolk & Prin- cess Anno—they are using all diligence in procuring supplies & am in hopes tho fleet will fully be supply'd with beef by their own purchase & the Commissary's—Markets are held near the Capes by which they got plenty of small meets, eggs, milk, poultry &c—The hard cash draws sup- plies to them from great distances, but I think they are imprudent in their management—if the Consul who acts here as agent would appoint some one to make purchases I think they wou'd have been made for 25 pr: ct: less than they now are. I have not as yet seen him, but sent your powers to him which he seem'd pleased with—I have made a demand of one tenth of the Cattle out of Princess Ann, which are now collecting & shall deliver up to the fleet & either take payment or bills for them, but am afraid many will be lost, as we have no guard to take care of them & the Consul will only receive them as he can have them taken off—" ***** * * "beef will be the chief supply from this Qr. Money that I took from the Treasury will not buy me a dinner, but am in hopes of laying it out at S. Quay— The County of Princess Ann has neither civil or military law in it— they are striving to collect their militia—to morrow will determine their numbers to turn out—Murder is committed & no notice is taken of it for want of some support up the Country—a few desperate fellows go
Page 451
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 451 about on the sea Coasts and large Swamps & do miseheifs in the nights. 1781. every one who appears active against them is an object of their fury—a Sept. 17th few riffle men with an Active Officer in exchange for some militia from this, might render great service & keep up the authority of the Civil jus- tice—I beg leave to refer you to Capt: Travis for particulars out of my power now to give you a detail off having been so ill that I cou'd not attend the Shores. I have invited our neighbours, the Carolinians, to bring in supplies which they cheerfully do & hope it will meet your approbation— Princess Ann is full of Corn, Hay &c—they have paid no taxes for a long time, they are rich (except a few objects of the Brittish vengeance). A good forage master with a party wou'd make large collections. They are able to supply both sides & refuse paper money entirely—Colo. Thoro- good the life of the County being a prisoner makes things go on very heavily. if he cou'd be exchanged matters wou'd alter & delinquents brought to justice—I pray your Excellency if it can be done to do it— it is impossible to conceive the advantages it wou'd be to these parts. Captain Thomas Herbert some time ago took some prisoners, which were given to Ld: Cornwallis in exchange for Capts. Rob't Baron & Ed. Wanycut. Herbert says he had Ld: Cornwallis' word for their release, which has never been comply'd with & he keeps both the men & those they were exchang'd for—Coll: Parker has the receipt Herbert took for the men—Count D. Grasso has a fine Ship for sale very cheap which Capt: Travis can describe to you. if he wou'd take provisions for her •we cou'd easily pay it, & she wou'd be of great use to the State—a set of Carpenters would eat as much as he asks for her, in building the hull &c. ***** COL: HENRY LEE TO COL: DA VIES—enclosing copy of a communication Sept. 17th to him, from Genl: Washington. "Sir, In consequence of yr: Lre: of the 31st of Aug'st I draughted one Prince Wm. half of my Militia amounting to 285 privates besides the proper Serg'ts Co' and Commissioned Officers as required to Command them by the Invasion Law, and had them ready last Wednesday, to march, but in consequence of his Excellency Genl: Washington's Lre, a copy of which is herunto annexed I have kept them on severe Duty in repairing the roads wch: were impassable for the Baggage Waggons and Artillery, which has been a laborious & fatiguing Duty—I saw his Excellency as he passed through Dumfries last Wednesday, who directed me, in Conjunction with Colo. Wagoner, the County Lt: of Fairfax, to view and Examine the Ford of Occoquon at a place called Wolfe-run-ford, and if it was Possible, to make the hills there, which were by nature inaccessible, a way for
Page 452
452 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. waggons, to have it done—in consequence of these orders the way was Sept. 17th viewed and found might be made a good road with much labour, and half of my Militia, draughts & all are & have been Employed about that work, and in a few days I am in hopes will be compleatly accomplished, w'ch will open a direct way from Georgetown to Dumfries and shorten the distance many miles, besides being a much better road, and well supplied with forage, being a fine fertile Country well improved with Meadows. the Genl: likewise advised me not to send the militia to head Quarters until I heard from him or the Governour, whom he should inform of the disposition he had made of them, but to hold-them in readiness to march on the first call, which I shall do untill I receive further orders. besides Wo were disappointed in getting the 229 stand of Arms from Colo. Peyton in Loudon on Genl: Weedon's orders. I went in Person to Colo. Peyton's to press the delivery, but he shewed me a Lre. from you forbidding the delivery of Public Arms, but to the order of yr: Board, and said he should put those he had in the hands of his own Militia who were ordered on duty & were without. We have not above 80 guns in the County that are anywise fit for Service and about as many Squerill Guns. His Excellency has ordered the Fairfax Militia who were well Armed, on the same Fatigue,-and the whole Militia except the draught from Safford who had marched, are on fatigue duty in Clearing roads from Chappowamsick to Falmouth. Pray inform the Gov'r of the reason this Militia has not marched agre- able to his Lre: to me of the 2nd of this month, w'ch must sufficiently plead my Excuse with you & him. I am sorry to hear that the Army wants bread, & will use every influence & Exertion in my Power to Prevail on the People to thresh out their grain. this County can easily supply 60,000 bushels of Wheat. A list of the Cloathing w'ch will this day be delivered to the Commissary to be fowarded on to Capt: Peyton, shall be .transmitted to you by the first opportunity; they have been ready (except some few) several months. I am in want of Some Blank Militia Commissions, w'ch pray foward me with the Articles of War. I am with great regard & Esteem, Yr: most ob't Serv't &c. &c. Letter referred to above. "Mount Vernon Sep 10th 1781. "Dear Sir, Let me request you in very earnest terms to employ the militia ordered out by the Governor, in repairing the roads from the ford of Occoquon through Dumfries to the limits of your County. To do this & to do it well is of such essential importance that I cannot for- bear urging it in strong terms. The baggage waggons of the French & American Armies, the Cavalry & Beef Cattle will all march by this route & may be expected in the course of a few days—Neglect of or delay in
Page 453
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 453 the execution of this business, will not only retard the march of the 1781. waggons, but may be productive of essential Injury to them. Sept. 17th For dispatch and the better performance of this work, it may be proper to divide the Militia into several parties under good officers, strongly impressed with the necessity of the Service. If the ford at Occoquon admits of improvement Let mo entreat that you & Colo: Wagener will use the best means of giving it. These Ser- vices well performed, may probably exempt your Militia from further service, & a march to York. I expect Count de Rochambeau (Commander of the French Army) the Chevlr. do Chastellux & their respective suite at this place, tomor- row on their way to join the army below. It would be a releif to them & their horses, and a mark of attention w'ch I am persuaded would be pleasing the Gentlemen if this State would assist them along in their carriages from stage to stage. Permit me therefore to request the favour of you to provide at Dumfries the means of carrying them to Fredericksburg, where I will engage other Gentlemen to take them up, from hence they will be furnished with carriages & horses to Dumfries. With much esteem & regard I am Dr Sir, yr: most obed't Serv't, GO: WASHINGTON. Henry Lee Esqr. County Lieut. of Prince William. P. S. I expect the Gentlemen before mentioned will dine at Dumfries on Wednesday, if they arrive here as I expect. Be so good as to com- municate so much of this Letter as relates to the repairs of the road, to the Lieut: of Stafford County, & in my name & behalf entreat him to attend to the business in his district—I wish particular attention could be paid to the ford at Falmouth." CAPT: A. BOHANNAN TO COL: DA VIES, in reply. Sept. 17th Approves the mode suggested for transporting the Cartridge boxes Richmond from Maryland, especially as he can ill afford to spare Mr. Frazer, who is collecting "the cannon balls & shells"—He had ordered the Military Stores at New London & Staunton to be collected at Irvin's Store, to be sent thence to Westham. Had chosen this route to take advantage of the Water carriage—Had sent Mr. Jordon to New London to take an inven- tory of Arms at that place, but found that Capt: Irish "had claimed them as Continental arms, and had put some.of them in repair & sent them to Genl: Green's Camp."
Page 454
454 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JNO: BAIRD TO THE EXECUTIVE. Sept. 17th Petersburg Asking exemption from military duty for John Burrow, Capt: R. Booker's Company, his services being necessary in aiding "to bake the Country's Bread" and transporting it to that place. Sept. 17th Colo: John Nash, requests Col: Davies to supply him with twelve Pr. Edward blank Commissions for Officers in his County, so that no excuse can be made by them when called into the field. Sept. 17th Thos: Clements informs Col: Davies, his six assistants all agree to serve Southampt'n twelve months—He has searched the County for cattle & horses, as directed, but finds none that were "left by the British, or brought by them into the County." Sept. 18th John Robins and John Upshur, Com'rs of Grain Tax, report, they Northampton have collected "107 bushels of Corn & 1944J bushels oats." Co. Sept. 18th Colos. Cropper & Avery, Eastern Shore, Ordered, in view of the pressing demands of the Army, to have large quantities of Corn & Oata collected immediately and transported to Burwell's Ferry on Jas: River—to "impress vessels and their crews for this purpose." Liquors and Salt, said to be abundant on the E. Shore, are much wanted. Sept. 18th Order from the Executive to, seize all the salt that can be procured, "and all vessels that are proper for the transportation of provisions." Sept. 18th ROB'T MORRIS TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Office of Fi- I have receiv'd your Excellency's Favor of the fifth Instant, from nance, Phila. j^ichmontl, anil thank you for your attention to my several Letters of the 16th and 25th July and 23d August—Accept also Sir, my Thanks for the good wishes you have expressed, that I may be enabled effectu- ally to execute the Duties of my office—Your Goodness and your
Page 455
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 455 Patriotism both assure me of your sincerity in these wishes. To pro- 1781. duce their Completion, nothing more is necessary than that the States Sept. 18th should exert themselves to furnish solid effectual Revenue; with that everything is possible, and without it nothing— I am Sir, very respectfully, Your Excellency's most obedient & humble Servant." Capt: A. Bohannan reports to Col: Davies, that Capt. Allen's Inven- Sept. 18th tory of Laboratory Stores shows—"ten Rheams of Musket Cartridge Richmond paper & Ten Thousand Musket Cartridges," on hand. Gov: NELSON TO HON'BLE D. JAMESON ESQR. Richmond. Sept. 18th "Sir, The want of Forage & Spirits begin to be very sensibly felt in the Williamsb'g Army, the Country around hero being exhausted to a Degree that ia extremely distressing to the Inhabitants. Forage for 5000 thousand Horses will be wanted. You will inform me where the public stores are, or where it is most probable it can be procured—Military matters remain as when I last wrote. I am &c." Gov: NELSON TO LORD CORNWALLIS. Sept. 18th "My Lord, The Officers of the Va. Line who contracted the Debts in Williamsb'g Charleston, for the payment of which we are now sending Tobacco, are desirous that Lieutenant Colonel Wallace, one of their Number, & still a Prisoner on Parole, be permitted to go in the Flag, his knowledge of their contracts qualifying him better than any Person, who is a stranger to them, to settle them in a just & satisfactory Manner. If your Lord- ship thinks proper to grant this Permission, you will be pleased to enclose to me a Passport for him. I am informed that Major Arthur Dickinson of the York County Militia, is under close confinement in your Provost. Your Lordship will oblige me, by acquainting me with the Reason of his being treated in this rigorous manner. I am, your Lordship's Obed't & very h'ble Serv't—" &c. &c.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 456
456 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Gov: NELSON TO . Sept. 18th "Sir, Williamsb'g Information having been given me, that Ralph Wormeley, Ralph Wormeley jnr: Philip L. Grymes, James Mills, Simon Frazer, Rob't Gilmore, Hugh Walker, & Jonathan Denison of the County of Middle- sex: Dr. 'Brokenborough & Archibald Ritchie of the County of Essex, & Anthony M. Kittrick of Stafford County have been guilty of conduct which manifests Disaffection to this Government and the Interest of the United States, you are hereby required & empowered to apprehend their Persons & papers, & to have them conveyed to the Town of Rich- mond under proper guard. You are authorised, for this purpose to call upon the Militia of any County you think proper, either of those in actual service, or otherwise, to aid & assist you." Sept. 18th J. ROBERTSON, DEI>: COM: GENL: TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Sir, Richmond This moment I received your letter of yesterday's date and par- ticularly observed the contents. I have frequently informed the Quar- ter Masters & Commissioners that we were acting entirely in the wrong mode of business & positively the reverse of what was pointed out by Congress—but as no person has ever yet appeared with the Army either in the Commissary Genl: of Purchases, or Quarter Master General's Department, to receive the Supplies from the State, of course it must be done & none but me to do it. I have an Agent in Camp, who has hitherto received the whole that have been sent to the Troops with the Marquis—Genl: Wayne's Issuing- Commissary has done the same, as his Brigade has been partly detached—I have spoke to Major Claiborne, (& shall again repeat my request) to send an Assistant to the Army—I shall immediately have a Return made out, of all that has been received from the State since my appointment, & transmit Copies to you & like- wise Major Forsytho—" *' * * * "I am sent for by my Ass't to go to Camp immediately—I find I ought to be both here and there at once—The distress my Department is in at Camp, for some Money & their daily threatening to leave me truly disturbs me—You may be assured Sir, I will do every thing in my power to keep the department in such order as that the State may have the just Credits, and as far as in my power lies, endeavor to keep the Accomps out of that Chaos in which they are likely to be involved— *****
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 457
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 457 Gov: NELSON TO COL: HENDRICKS, Alexandria. 1781. Sept. 18th Ordering him, without delay to procure the "hundred saddles" at that Williamsb'g place, said to "answer for Dragoons," by purchase; but if not to be got- ten on these terms, to "have recourse to impress," and to transport them at once to Richmond—"A copy of the above sent to Capt: Young Rich- mond, to impress 30 saddles from Mr. Wright; mutatis mutandis." MB. JOHN PIERCE TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 18th He is making every exertion to procure supplies; finds from a visit to Richmond Petersbm-g the prospects promising, the Commissrs of Chesterfield using' every diligence—He hopes for large supplies from the upper Counties— The people on the Northern Neck contend that no commissioner has authority to collect, except from the Executive—Mr. Jameson had taken steps to correct this error—"The prospect from Hanover is not so prom- ising"—The only salt ho knows of is in Fredericksburg, brought there from the Eastern Shore by order of Mr. Ross—He should have some of it sent to camp. LIEUT: COL: JOHN TAYLOR TO COL: WM. DA VIES. Sept. 18th "Sir, My Legion is ordered to rendezvous on the 25th instant, in order Caroline Co. to join in the great work of the day—I have sent Mr. Washington, who acts as a quarter master, to know in what manner they can be armed and equipt. Having just returned from below, it is wholly out of my power to furnish you with a correct return. I can only say that from my informa- tion furnished by the several recruiting officers, some time past, 204 men were enlisted & furlowed to the 1st September, who with what may have beon recruited lately, may now be called on—In addition to these, 56 men have been enlisted lately in the army, certainly "—He asks for tents, Knapsacks, Camp Kettles, &c—tents for 18 officers—As these men are "engaged fora considerable length of time" and have come promptly into the field without the clothing promised them, he trusts allowances be made for any complaints on their part—Concludes "To lose this great opportunity of veteranizing my men, will still leave that a raw corps, which may now acquire some degree of stubbornness, and without the equipments, the opportunity must be lost, Mr. Washington will I hope have a waggon to bring over to Caroline what things he may get." * ****** I have the honor to be, &c &c. 58
Page 458
458 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: JAMES HENDRICKS TO COL: DAVIES. Sept . 18th "Dear Col:" Alexandria An express just on his way, gives me leave to represent to you, that the Commissioners of my County tells me they are about to resign their offices, as their sallareys is so much inadequate to their ser- vices, and that the sheriffs have absolutely refused to receive certificates granted by them for Provisions &c—you will no doubt have this matter properly investigated, the delaying of which will be attended with the most fatal consequences if this sentiment is Genl. I beleive the reasons given by the Sheriffs, is that Mr. Brown, late Commissioner hath not settled his accounts, and the creditors will not pass the Certificates until this is done—however this may be, I have not a doubt but you'l see this matter in the Same view that I do, and that if all possible respect is not paid to Certificates pass'd for the payment of goods taken under the orders of the Executive, all supplies must Cease. I have with much trouble and difficulty got about Fifteen hun- dred to Two M. Barrels of Flour, in motion, some by land, the rest by water—" Sept. 18th COL: JOHN SYHE TO DAVID JAMESON ESQR. New Castle Asks for instructions in regard to his duty in arresting deserters— Sent a message by Mr. Mercer, in regard to his inability to keep any horses on account of constant impressment—Is treading out his wheat with them for the public benefit; should any more be taken it would be necessary to require protection from the Council—Ho had already fur- nished eight horses and thinks it enough for one person—Has no public wheat—His mills all ready, but must be idle unless he be furnished with funds to buy wheat, which can be done—He had been obliged to work on Sunday & one whole night in order to get the waggons off from Rocky Mills. He is just informed that "Major McCalPs Horse 120 in number" are to be quartered on him, and asks "Can this be right, after the depredations mentioned in my last to you?" Sept. 18th COL: JOHN GIBSON TTH VA. REG'T TO Gov: NELSON. Head Quar- He had been ordered the winter before, by Gov: Jefferson, from Rich- ters, Ft. Pitt mond to Philadelphia, in order to foward a supply of Powder to Fort Pitt, for the expedition under Genl: Clarke—The money sent through Ensign Tannehill to defray the expenses incident to this duty, "would not pass at any rate" in that Country, and he now returns it by Mr. Boreman, with the request that it be exchanged, &c.
Page 459
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 459 Jos: JONES, J. MADISON JR: THEO. BLAND & EDMUND RANDOLPH, DELE- 1781. GATES IN CONGRESS TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Sept. 18th We have been honor'd with yr: Excellency's favor of the 2d Inst: Philadelphia with its enclosures by Post— We with great sincerity return congratulations to your Excellency, and our Country, on the happy event of the arrival of so large a rein- forcement to our aid, and felicitate them on the Pleasing prospect of complete success—not doubting but that the ardor of our Countrymen on this occasion, to cooperate with our Allies, will equal their generous efforts to releive us. We are informed that our Army on the North River is daily increasing by large accessions of recruits from the East- ern States; and is now in a very respectable situation as to numbers: Sufficiently so we hope to keep the Enemy in New York in Cheque, not- withstanding the powerful reinforcement which has marched to the Southward with the Commander in Cheif: however from the Enemys Possessing the Command of the Water, in that Quarter, we are sorry to inform you it has not been in the power of our Army to prevent them from sending a considerable detachment to New London in Connecticut, where Mr. Arnold, who commanded, landed and attacked a fort Gar- risoned by about two hundred and fifty men, which, (after a severe Con- flict in which he was twice repulsed) he carried, and put the Greatest part of the Garrison to the sword: his loss is estimated at near two hun- dred men Kill'd, wounded &c— After seting fire to the Towns of New London and Groton, which were in great measure consumed, he reimbarked, and is returned to New York. We are also sorry to Inform you that the frigate of our Ally (the Majicienne) in going out of the Harbour of Boston with a convoy of American vessels, was attacked by a superior force of the Enemy, and taken, after an obstinate and Gallant defence, in which she gave time to her convoy to escape. By the best accounts we have from New York, the Enemy are pre- paring an Embarkation of troops, whose destination it is supposed will depend much on the success of the operations of their fleet to the South- ward—the same are of opinion that they mean to extend their burning Plan to this city. A large Body of militia from this State and Gersey are ordered to hold themselves in readiness to oppose such an attempt sh'd it be undertaken. We have reports that a Squadron of men of war under the Command of Admiral Digby is arrived on this Coast—the report seems Probable but wants confirmation—it is supposed to consist of not less than six and not more than ten shipps of the line; 'tis said he is to take command of the whole fleet on his arrival. By some intercepted letters, we find there are great discontents in New York, at Sr. Henry Clinton's conduct—that they are much dis- tressed for want of men, giving six Guineas bounty for- men for three
Page 460
460 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. months—that Arnold has been greatly disappointed in raising his Legion, Sept. 18th which after all his promises and efforts, amounts at present to little more than forty men, the cheif of them officers; and that even that number is daily diminishing—they seem to expect he will be laid aside. Mr. letters shall be handed to Col: Petit, and every exertion in our power used to promise him and the State redress; But in order to ensure suc- cess in this attempt, we cannot too strongly inculeate the necessity of the accounts of the State and his department being adjusted, and sent on to the office of Finance for statement, for without such an adjustment and a Balance appearing due to the State, we conceive it absolutely impracticable to bring Congress to assent to an advance on any consid- eration, having heretofore used our utmost efforts in vain for that Pur- pose. We have a report that a fleet of six French and six Dutch ships of the line, with a considerable body of Land Forces is arrived in the West Indies, but of this there is yet no certainty. We cannot refrain from informing your Excellency that altho' an Agent is appointed to furnish the Delegates with money, & we have been long in expectation of remit- tances of specific articles to fix a permanent credit for us here, yet we see little prospect of its being accomplished soon; and in the mean time it is with Infinite difficulty, we have been able to procure the means of subsistence for ourselves and families, which we have been constrained to do, by borrowing small sums on our personal Credit, or by Bills drawn at long time by the Agent, in our favor, which cannot be discounted at less disadvantage to the State than from 12 J to 20 pr: ct:—this we can- not help thinking a ruinous and disgracefull mode of obtaining money— of which it is our duty to advertise your Excellency, in hopes that a less ruinous, more honorable and certain expedient may be adopted, and that we shall stand excused with our Country for the enhanced expencos which such an enormous discount subjects it to. We are with great respect, Yr: Excelly's most obedt & very Hble Servt, &c. &c. The Parchment Mr. Beckley wrote for may be obtained had we funds for so doing. Sept. 18th COL: JOHN SYME TO Gov: NELSON, &c., by Major Winston. "Sir, New Castle In consequence of yo. Directing the Roads to be mended, just come to Hand, I have been able to Direct only 100 men (nearly the same num- ber as far 1 can get Returns) of those now to be releived on Duty in Gloster. Indeed when it is considered, How many men we already have as guards to the prisoners, Rebuilding the Meadow-Bridges, & Employed in the Different marches, of Repairing arms, making soldiers cloaths
Page 461
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 461 &c &c, with the great number of Invalids, I am convinced we can have 1781. no pretensions to two Battls. I did mention this to Mr. Jefferson. He Sept. 18th had his Doubts about it & so it Stop'd—I shall as soon as possible pro- sent you with the returns I have ordered—I hope you'll put us to Rights wch give me leave to tell you we always wanted, but much more so since my capture. Would it not be best on Acct. of Provisions & other con- siderations, to remove the prisoners Higher up than our Court House? I am informed by James Mercer Esqr of Fredericksburg, that His Excel- lency General Washington Ordered all the Militias of upper Cotys to Remain at home for the Business of Repairing Roads—if it is necessary in any Coty in Virginia I am sure it is so in Ours, for Besides The Meadow & L. Page's Bridges, The Last Great Rains within these Few days have Demolish'd the Lesser Bridges, Mill Dams & gullied the Hills in such manner that it is scarcely possible for any Carriage to pass. Seeing this is really the case & Mr. Mercer mentioning fouther that a very large number of waggons are coming on from the North, How is it possible for them to pass. Besides Sir, Wheat can't wth conveniency be carried to the mills in Carriages on this Great Call for Flour. I saw your Excellency's Ltre: to the Commissioner for our Coty: & was Favor'd wth a Line from the Lt: Governor, & imeadiately put Rockey Mills, wth all my coopers to work night & Day, on my own Wheat (not excepting the Sabbath Day). I am now doing the same here—Not one grain of Publick Wheat can I get—I say Sir, from all these considera- tions, will it not be best to Discharge my militia, at least those that are unarm'd, to proceed on this most Salutary Work & Adopted by our Great & Good Comander. I have the Honor to be &c &c." N. B. Majr. Wm. O. Winston who comands this party, has very par- ticular Reasons, for Wanting to be Excus'd this Tour & for wch refer you to Him. He desires me to inform your Excelly: that his place may be very well supply'd by one of my Old Capts: Very well Experienc'd, and who shall be sent Down Directly He Returns, if they continue below & you approve his acting as Major pro Tempore." COL: ABRA: GBEEN TO COL: DA VIES. Sept. 19th He has received the communications of the Governor and himself in Amelia Co. regard to procuring wagons to transport provisions to the Army, and providing horses for the use of the French Army—He has made every effort to comply with these instructions, but "finds it impracticable, for neither the necessity of the case nor anything he can urge for their own and the public good has the least influence with the people". Would impress them but has not authority to do it; has urged upon the Com- missioners, the great want of provisions, vinegar and spirits—This is all he can do—
Page 462
462 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. LT: COL: THOS. GASRINS TO THE GOVERNOR. Sept. 19th Camp Appealing to him for clothing for his troops, "in a very ragged condi- tion, some of them almost reduced to a state of nature & falling sick daily for want of cloaths sufficient to keem them warm whilst on duty in the night or in wet weather"—Begs also for shoes or boots for the Officers. Sept. 19th Gov: NELSON TO BRIO: GEN: WEEDON. "Sir,' Williamsb'g I have this Morning received your Favour of Yesterday. The Reason I imagine, why no Releif has arrived in your Camp, is that the Militias of all the Counties, except King & Queen, which you mention were ordered to come down on this side: & the Militias of the Counties North of Pamunkey River to form the Gloucester Army. The Militia of K & Queen had no Right to a Discharge, until releived, according to the late Militia Law. I have already given the necessary Orders respecting Ammunition, & shall take care that your Force be made so respectable, as to enable you to awe the Enemy on your Side & to act an offensive Part." Sept. 19th Gov: NELSON TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Sir, Williamsb'g Yours of the 15th I received last night. Your proposal to have a Magazine established at Shirley is certainly a good one, and ought to have more attention paid to it, than mere approbation. The navigation above can be much more easily and expeditiously performed by small craft than by large vessels: which latter again will be more advan- tageously employed in the lower navigation. It is my wish therefore that you urge this matter in the strongest terms to Major Claiborae and Mr. Pierce. It is necessary, where men so openly and on such interest- ing occasions, dare to disobey the Orders of Government as in the Instance of the Henrico Militia, that some punishment should await their conduct—Whatever method you shall find best to answer this pur- pose will bo approved by me. The behaviour of Col: Barbour is in the highest degree reprehensible, and I shall take that notice of it, which it deserves, and which I trust will deter him and others from like prac- tices in future. The Troops under Col: Gaskins are so shamefully deficient in clothing, that I must request of you to have any clothes which are ready immediately sent on. An Officer will go up to receive them. I am Sir Yr: mo: ob: Servant &c &c.
Page 463
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 463 "D. O. Capt: Jones with the whole of his Corps, except those ordered 1781. to the mouth of Queen's Creek are to attend Colonel Innes upon parti- Sept. 19th cular duty." Gov: NELSON TO COLO. BARBOUR. Sept. 19th "Sir, By a Letter received yesterday from the 'War Office, I have Informa- Williamsb'g tion that 29 Boxes of Arms were seized & delivered out by you to the People of your County, although the Conductor shewed you his express orders to bring them on to Camp. If we were to consider the conse- quences of such conduct, nothing could appear more criminal, or merit- ing more severe notice. Suppose it to be general in the Counties through which public arms pass, & no one County Lieutenant'is more highly privileged than another, the Troops embodied would remain unarmed & the Force on which the immediate Salvation of the State depends, rendered incapable of acting. A great Part of the Country would be exposed to inevitable Destruction. In this Point of view such Conduct appears to be a crime of the deepest Dye & calls strongly for the Exer- cise of those extensive Powers, with which the late Laws have invested me. Still however your general good Character inclines me to consider this act, rather as intended to put your particular militia into a good state of Defence, than to injure the Country at large. Yet this must be the Consequence if the Arms are not immediately collected & conveyed to Camp. This you will have done, with all possible Expedition, that the Troops assembled here may be rendered useful on this important Occasion. The Injury already sustained from the Detention is sufficiently great & I hope you will take care that it be not increased by any unne- cessary Delay in having the present Order executed." I am Sir, yr: most obt. T. N. CAPT ELEAZER CALENDER TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 19th He had seen the order to Colo. Thornton to send all the flour & meal Williamub'g to Pianketank—On this account he had changed his plan of sending provisions to Burwell's Ferry and had "Ordered the skippers to call at Mr. Will: Armstead's house in the mouth of Piankatank River for Orders, whether they are to land the meal there or to proceed to Bur- ril's Ferry"— ***** "The French Troops passing through this Town will expend a great part of the Flower & Meal, so that the supplys from here will not be so great as might be expected. If I can be of any service on board the French fleet will Imediately repair on Board." I am respectfully &c.
Page 464
464 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Memorial (French) of Jean Vancheret, representative of Godfrey Sept. 19th Linitot, in behalf of the latter, as Indian Agent and Officer of the Gov- ernment of Virginia, praying for remuneration for .advances made, and his expenses in making the journey to "the Illinois" to St. Vincent, &c. Sept. 19th MA.I1'u THOS: POSEY TO COL: WM. DAVIES. s "Dr. Sir, Cumberland I this moment received your letter of the llth Inst:—You not 'mentioning the receit of my letter of the first of the month, sent you by Pitello the Commissary of this Post, makes me fearfull it never has come to hand; in which letter I answered yours dated the 27th August, and enclos'd you a list of officers requested by you and Government to be nominated for recruiting, as also a list of those appointed to act at the different rendezvous, which are established agreable to those nomi- nated by you." * * * * "I have shewn the Law for recruiting to the officers which are at this place, but none of them seem willing to undertake the business of recruiting. * * * * "Capt: Darby will be the bearer of this letter and will receive what ever money you may think proper to give him for recruiting at this post." He had appointed an officer from each Regiment for the recruiting service. Sept. 19th CHRISTOPHER ROBERTS TO Gov. NELSON. Nansemond He sends by Capt Keel forty one barrels of flour, & throe barrels ''Indian meal." The flour impressed from Messrs. Baker & Blow—He will send a vessel load of Indian meal the next day—Capts: Keel & Rob- erts can bring "near 1000 barrels flour" to the nearest Landing to the army on James River. Sept. 19th ANTHY. W. WHITE COL: IST ROT. L. DRAGOONS TO COL: DAVIES. "Sir, Ruffin's Capt: Hughes is Just arriv'd with a small proportion of cloathing Ferry for 100 men of my Regiment. I could wish Sir, that I may be clearly understood on the subject of cloathing my Regiment; to render the army a service, I was willing to make a shift with anything that would do in the Room of cloathing Dragoons are entitled to.—for this reason I con- sented to take over halls, shoes & some Hatts. Capt Hughes informs me he could procure only a few pair of shoes, & Hatts ware particularly denighed him—Can you suppose that I can take men into action with- out caps or Hatts; and are you not well assured that it is the first Regi-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 465
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 465 mcnt of Dragoons that ever went to the Field without Boots;—but was 1781. they able to render the Least service in the field without shirts or Sept. 19th Breeches I should not Hesitate to take them there. I hope Sir, you will be actuated by the same sentiments & that I may be immediately fur- nish'd for one hundred men, with one stable Jacket, two shirts, two pair of over-halls and one pair of shoes each; About fifty Hatts will be want- ing, as caps cannot be got as soon as we shall want them." * * * * Sends Mr. Bowyer to receive any clothing that may be on hand for a hundred dragoons, in as much as he had promised his Excellency these should be ready in a few days. Begs that no "trifling objections" may be raised, "while cavalry is so much wanting." COL: WM. DA VIES TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 19th "Sir, I have wrote your Excellency two letters since the 13th which are War Office not acknowledged in your favor of the 16th, but which I suppose have reached your hands by this time. Foreseeing that you would probably want the Militia Law I had enclosed it in one of those letters. For fear they may have miscarried I enclose you another copy. All the horses that would be received by the Continental quarter- masters had been delivered to Major Claiborne's deputies several days before the arrival of Col: Nicholas' intimation of your desires on that head. The remainder are so utterly unfit for any public service, that they are an expence to the State, and with your Excellency's approba- tion, I will direct the Quartermaster to sell them. In my last I gave your Excellency some account of our prospects in the article of waggons. No material alteration has taken place since, unless it be the result of some rascals who have run away with their waggons and Teams and hid them." He finds there is a considerable quantity of cartridge paper on hand in the Laboratory—Had enjoined upon Mr. Ross the importance of guarding against a deficiency of powder.—Concludes "I am much obliged to your Excellency for the news you give me. I hope by this time the Army has begun to approach towards the enemy. I forgot to mention that we are in the greatest distress for want of a tinman. We cannot prepare proper ammunition for the Artillery unless we can get one. I must beg your Excellency's attention to this essen- tial matter, as we shall not be able to furnish any cannon ammunition without one. I have the honor to be with most respectful regard, your very ob't Servant" &c &c. 69
Page 466
466 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR CLAIBORNE TO COL: WM. DAVIES, in behalf of Mr. S. Walker who had voluntarily given his Waggon and team for the use of the Army, but had himself contrary to law been pressed into service as a six months soldier. Sept. 19th Major Claiborne adds "If such liberties are taken in opposition to measures caleulated for the public interest, and with men who willingly & with so much propriety enter into the Service, it is in vain to expect success." Sept. 19th CAPT: ISAAC YOUNGHUSBAND TO COL: DAVIES—in reply. Henrico Co. The collections to have been made in that County had from time to time been referred to the Court upon each term of its Session; and at the last Col: Southall & Mr. Prosser had undertaken to divide the County off with a view to executing the provisions of the Law, but the "Brittish come up and throw'd all into Confution: Since which time nothing has been don." * * * * "I am now parool'd by tho Brittish, to be call'd on at pleasure, and tho' I have acted as a magistrate, as to 'people proveing property, Com- miting Theifs & Keeping the peace, that may be wrong. My Excuse is that in the worst of times, there ought to be such Officers—if it is not law, it is Justice and Equity; but my now taking on me to do more. is like an Officer in the Army going into the field after being taken and Parooled." Sept. 19th Mr. Wm. Hay writes to tho Governor, that Mr. Ross had left town in Richmond search of Flour &c., but would probably return the next day. Sept. 19th MR. WM. HAY TO COL: DAVIES. "Sir, Richmond From the supply of Thread & Linen of different sorts sent up to Capt: Peyton last week, as also twelve serges of different colours, I hope he will be able to keep the hands at work— Mr. St. Clair was furnished with £30,000 on acct: about ten days ago, which will enable him to keep the factory well supply'd with Threads & Country made Linnen. As to the Buttons, there are none to be procured in tho State upon any terms, & wish you would write to the commanding officer of our militia to discharge Humphreys, provided he means to execute his con- tract for Buttons.
Page 467
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 467 However anxious I am to encourage any new manufactory in this 1781. State, the present situation of our affairs & the total want of raw mate- Sept. 19th rials that are necessary for carrying on a Hat manufactory are sufficient objections against the Proposal at present. Our Northern brethren have got the start of us & are already possessed of the art & the mate- rials, & can supply us with Hats cheaper than we could make them here upon the most frugal Plan. Our Tobacco now begins to have a value & will put it in our power to procure supplys upon better terms than formerly. Should no untoward accident happen below, we shall be able to export a considerable quantity soon in order to procure a supply of clothing for the army." I am Sir, your most ob. Gov: NELSON TO WM. RONALD ESQ., Powhatan. . Sept. 19th "Sir, I have just been informed by the Commissary that the County of Williamsb'g Powhatan is exceedingly backward in sending out its proportion of the necessary supplies for the army. In consequence of this Information, I am obliged to arm him with extraordinary powers, and such as must be disagreeable in the execution—Shall get the favor of you to exert yourself at this critical time to persuade the Country people to send foward to the army every possible supply. If we have anything to fear it is the want of provisions. The importance of the occasion might be my excuse for the trouble this business will give you. Yr: obt. Servant— &c. MAJOR R. CLAIBORNE TO COL DAVIES—in regard to the case of S. Walke. Sept. 19th "Rather than agree to serve the 6 months with his wagon & team ho Richmond will run the risque of getting her out of the service; and says ho will sell the horses and lay the wagon by—He also intends to hire a substi- tute for himself—so that the public will not have the service of him, or his wagon or team. All the arguments I can make use of cannot drive the notion out of his head, but that the Court Martial has treated him ill." Gov: NELSON TO CAPT: JOHN PIERCE (written by G. Nicholas aid). sept. 19th "Sir, It is with the greatest concern, that I find your prospects so bad Williamsb'g in Powhatan—The Millers and Country people must be obliged to lend
Page 468
468 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 19th Sept. 19th Barracks their aid to the support of the Army. If you judge it necessary, you are hereby empowered to impress any grain, in or out of the straw, Mills, waggons, carts, Horses or negroes. If any resistance should be offered you will apply to the Commanding Officers of the respective Counties for parties of the Militia. The Commissary has not at this time one day's allowance of beef in Camp—I fear most of the Commissioners in the different Counties are unequal to their charge—If you find this to be so, you must appoint other persons. If the Cattle belonging to the Country are not sufficient for the supply of the Army, you must seize on any that are proper for the purpose, having respect to the number that each person has." Yr: obt. Serv't— &c &c. CAPT: JOHN TEBBS TO COL: DAVIES. Claiining the same right to draw clothing, as that accorded other officers, who had been declared supernumeraries, "at the White Plains," at the same time he was. Sept. 19th Greenbrier Co. To His Excellency the Governer of the Hon'ble Council of Virginis The Petition of sundry Inhabitants of the County of Green Brier Humbly Sheweth, That during the time a Garrison was maintained at Fort Randolph, your Petitioners emboldened by the Protection thereof, had taken up & settled themselves on sundry Plantations on the Great Kanawa, above the said Station; which on the withdrawing of the Troops stationed at Fort Randolph aforesaid, they were thro' fear of the Indians obliged to abandon & leave desolate, to the great loss and detriment of your Petitioners & to the no less prejudice of the Inhabitants of this County in general? as they thereby lost a Barrier, which in a great measure covered their frontiers: under these difficulties & hardships have we lain for these three years past, hoping that a Peace might come, by which we would be permitted to return to our Habitations with safety: But the much desired Blessing not having arrived, & worn out with the Hardships we sustain, your Petitioners humbly beg leave to inform your Excellency & the Hon'ble Council, that they are determined to return to their afore- said Habitations & propose in the first place to Erect a Station on the mouth of Elk River for the Protection of themselves & Families, & only request of Government that a Lieutenant and 30 men of the Militia of Green Brier County may be stationed there for our assistance. the Benefit which wou'd accrue to this County in having such a Station there are so obvious, that they need not be mentioned—the finding Pro- visions for them will occasion such difficulties as formerly, as the Tax
Page 469
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 469 grain annually paid by the Inhabitants here may be applied to their 1781. . support. As some of the Hon'ble Council are intimately acquainted Sept. 19th with the situation of the place we propose to Erect a Station at, & the advantages which wou'd result to this County therefrom, so we pur- posely omit mentioning of them & only pray your Excellency & the Hon'ble Council to take our Petition into your Consideration, & We, as in duty Bound shall over Pray. JAMES HUGART WILLIAM HUGART THOMAS COOPER SAMUEL VARNER JOHN WILLIAMS RICHARD WILLIAMS JOHN OSBORNE WILL HAMILTON SAM: McCLUNG JOHN JONES JAMS: JARRET JAS: JORDON JNO: PATTON PETER SHOEMAKER JAMES PATTERSON PATRICK MURPHY JOSEPH MoCLUNG WILL: FULLERTON CHARLES GROMER JACOB LOCKHART JOHN LEWIS JOHN McCASLIN JOHN RODGERS JAMES HUGART JNR. W. H. CAVENDISH JOHN ARCHER. PETER VANBIBER WM. JONES WILLIAM CRAIGE WM. BLEAK CHARLES McCLUNG CHAS: HOWARD JOHN DYER SIMON AKERS SAMPSON ARCHER." ANDREW McFARRAN SAML: McGANAUGH LEONARD MORRIS ANDREW DONNALLY LEONARD COOPER JAMES SMYTH THOMAS ELIS THOS: TEASS MICHL: SEE JOHN PATTERSON' JOHN BELLEW JAS: MoCAY. WM. DYER JOHN GRAHAM DAVID WILLIAMS GEORGE MALHAM SPENCER COOPER JOHN McFERREN JAMES HEWSTAN JAS: THOMPSON DANL: MCDOWELL JOSEPH CLAYPOLE JOHN VINEY WILLIAM DUNN JOHN HARRIS JOHN VANBIBER DAVID McCOY. ARCH: SMETHERS JOHN PIPER JAMES KITCHEN JAMES FLINN HER: MILLER SHADRACH HAREMAN THOMAS HOOF
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 470
470 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 19th Greenbrier Co. COL: ANDREW DONNELLY TO THE GOVERNOR. In accordance with instructions from the late Governor, he has held a Court Martial for the trial and punishment of delinquents—These were few in number, being some men ordered to join Genl: Clarke's Expedition against the Indians—They have been condemned as "Six months' men" and ordered to report at the Rendezvous at once—Since the last report, some of Major Hamilton's men have deserted, and he himself had returned, so that the services of the militia from Green- brier, under that officer had amounted to nothing. Intending to remove from the County he hereby resigns the office of County Lieutenant. Sept. 20th DAVID JAKESON TO Gov: NELSON. 'Sir, Council Immediately on receipt of yours of the 18th, we applied to the Chamber Qommerciai Agent for a supply of Spirits. A Mr. Crew, one of his assistants, is now here from the Eastern Shore, and reports that a con- siderable quantity lies ready, and nothing is wanting but proper vessels to bring it over the Bay." * * * * "Mr. Crew waits on you on another occasion. He was instructed by Mr. Ross to purchase or charter a proper vessel to go to Bermuda, but the owners of all such have such high expectations of gain on the present prospect of our affairs that they have refused to accommodate him. Mr. Ross has therefore impowered Mr. Crew to impress a Ves- sel—but a doubt arising whether the people there will pay obedience to Mr. Ross' warrant, We have desired Mr. Crew to wait on you to coun- tersign the war't he has, or give him such other as you may think needfull." * * * * * "Maj: Claiborne assures us that he has pressed his assistants, and that they give him every reason to suppose that large quantities of forage will soon be sent to the army both from Rappahannock and Potowmack, Aylott's Warehouse & Hanover Town to expedite tho busi- ness. He has some coming down to Westham, but it will be impossible to procure vessels to carry it down from this place when brought here. Could we be possessed of the navigation of York River, considerable , quantities might be carried down the branches thereof." The craft employed there are employed, and move as fast as they can with safety.
Page 471
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 471 BELLAMY CRAWFORD, "CL'K-& PAY MASTER OF YE CON: GENL: Hos- 1781. PITAL" So: DPT: TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 20th "Sir, Upwards of two months have elapsed since my arrival here a Williamsb'g Prisoner of War from Charleston; during which period have waited Page's with the greatest patience for assistance and support from Congress or this State; but if the dullness of my sight does not deceive me, I may continue to do so much longer. When I was a prisoner amongst my enemies and obliged to bear their revilings, I comforted myself that in a little time I wou'd be in the bosom of my friends; but alas! awaking out of my dream of ease and happiness, I find myself in a strange coun- try, without money or friends, and even the common necessaries of life were allowed me by the British. I have sacrificed a pretty independent fortune in defence of my Country 'tis true—was that all I should be happy. What bears most heavy on my spirit is, the present condition of my unfortunate wife, far, very far advanced in her pregnancy, not a single nccessary provided either for her or her infant by way of nourish- ment, or against the inclemency of the approaching season. my interest laying at a distance from Chas: Town prevented her from procuring them, being hurried away by the torrent of Tyranny at a very short notice, torn from the arms of a fond and tender mother with whom I had left her—I am informed Sir, that you are the happy father of a numerous and hopeful progeny, Therefore your feelings can but describe our distressed situation. I am sorry necessity obliges me to urge your Excellency on this head. We both rely on your natural goodness and humanity for relief— I have the honour to subscribe myself your Excellency's most Obedient but unfortunate Hum: Servant— &c &c. JAMES HENDRIOKS TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 20th He had been extremely hurried, and so engaged in collecting and Alexandria forwarding supplies to "our Starving Army," that this must be his apology for his delay in replying to his of the 17th, adds ''I congratu- late you on the removal of Mr. B . I don't know that I ever saw the man, but his conduct hath been truely shamefull in conducting the important department he had the management of, & sincerely hope his Successor will do better. You know my temper I think: I cannot help finding fault whenever I find things going wrong. A few days ago I received a number of letters for the Commissioners of me urging their Sending on Supplies. this will not do. the Commissioner for the State must send a trusty person to every Commissioner, who ought to
Page 472
472 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 20th be capable of examining his influence, his integrity, his activity and the State of his County—the appointments of County Commissioners hath been carelessly made, and many of them within my reach hath done hardly anything—without the utmost diligence DO supplys can be had under the present mode. The French Gold & Silver hath the most Per- suasive arguments—there is no withstanding them & of the voice of Common fame is always to be depended on. Some of the Cont: Com- missioners themselves feels its force." He has sent four waggons to Annapolis for the Cartridge Boxes, and as soon as received they shall be forwarded at once to Richmond. Sept . 20th Richmond Sept. 20th MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO HON: DAVID JAMESON. "I have the Honor to receive the advice of the Hon'ble Members of Council of this day, respecting the pressing necessity of sending forage to the Army, with the greatest dispatch. I beg leave to assure the Gentlemen, that I will take immediate steps to answer their wishes, and to keep up as constant a supply as possible. I have the honor to be, Sir with very great respect &c &c. CAPT: HENRY YOUNG TO COLO. DAVIES. Richmond Col Dabney informs him he is not able to procure a wagon from the Continental Depart'nt and therefore demands one of him—This he must refuse, unless the order come from the Executive—Adds "It is a pity that officers will not do their duty when they have it in their power— Maj'r Claiborne informs him, that he has wagons near the Town. Sept. 20th Gov: NELSON TO MR. PIERCE. "Sir, Williamsh'g The Article of Provision which we have now most reason to appre- hend the want of, is Beef—of which there is at this time very little if any in Camp. I have no doubt you have taken every step in your power to keep the Army supplied—Still however, it may not be amiss to spur on your Assistants from time to time to exert themselves to the utmost. The French, I am informed are well supplied with fresh meats from Norfolk & Princess Anne Counties, so that it is not necessary to collect Beeves at Hog Island for this purpose, and we find it sometimes impos- sible to get them across the River from that place. You will therefore have what the Southern Counties furnish brought over at some place
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 473
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 473 higher up the River, and driven to this camp. Continue your most 1781. strenuous exertions every way. Sept. 20th I am Sir, Yr: obt. Humble Servt. GENL: DANL: MORGAN TO Gov: NELSON, by Col: Nelson. Sept. 20th "Sir, When Major Nelson with his Corps come to Winchester by order of the Marquis to refit—thare being no publick stores to supply an Artificer to work for them, or any person to supply them with Forage Major Nelson being thus circumstanced, ho applyed to me for assistance, (the Marquis had wrote to me previous to this and inform'd mo how much he was distressed for want of cavalry) I immedietly imployed a number of macanicks who dispached the work in a short time, on my promising to see them paid—the core were compleatly acquipted in a very short time, tharr horses in good order & well shod—Capt. Armond (who was appointed to superintend this work) and myself sined the accompt and the workmen sent it down by Mr. Bush of Win- chester, who presented to the auditors and says he and the accompt both were Treated w'th Indignity.—I had contracted for a number of shose, and the workmen were about them, but when Mr. Bush como up they all knocked off. 1 have got some at it again but gose on slowly and if they could have been shore of tharr pay I should have had a Thousand pair in a short time—I sent the accompt for acquiping Major Nelson's reg't by Colo Nelson & if it is not paid I shall be obliged to pay it myself—Mr. Bush told mo the Auditors told him when he told them, that I was Liable for the money, that I might pay it, if I made such bargins as them—for my part I am convinced the workmen work'd as cheap as they did, or do for common, and if other ways, I dont think in a case of that kind, when the enemies horse were over riming the Country, and we not one to oppose them, and ninety men & horse at this place unfit for service for want of a little repair and workmen and materials on the spot. it is my opinion I ought not to have stood upon Trifles. I sincearly congratulate you on the arrival of so formidable a fleet & army to our assistance—it must certainly make good men's soul feell happy—I am in hopes we have that old Fox Cornwallis pretty safe. Nothing this sid of heaven would make mo so happy as to be at the takeing him, if my health would permit, but I am afraid it will not. must therefore pray for your success, which I shall most fervently do. I have the Honor to be your obed't H'ble Serv't, &c. &c. 60
Page 474
474 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. A Richardson, writes to Gov. Nelson, that he had rescued from the Sept. 20th depredations of the Enemy last October, a large quantity of Salt and Nansemond provisions: that they had since been consumed by the Troops serving on South side of James River; except about fifty bushels of Salt, which he should be happy to send to Camp if a vessel capable of carrying twenty barrels should be sent to "Milners," at which place he had been for some time acting as Quarter Master. 8ept. 21st Gov: NELSON TO CHARLES CARTER ESQ'R, MANN PAGE, & JAMES TUTT ESQ'RS. "Sir, Williamsb'g You will be pleased to superintend the sending of Cattle from your County. To enable you to do this, you are hereby empowered to call for the public cattle, and also to seize on such as are proper for the Army. In seizing you will take care not to draw too many from any one person. As soon as a sufficient number are collected you will send them on to Camp, and continue to do so untill you receive farther orders. If you find it necessary you may call on the County Lieut: for the aid of his Militia, either in the impressing or sending them down. Yr: Ob'tSer't, &c. Sept. 21st Gov: NELSON TO HON'BLE D. JAMESON. "Sir, Williamsb'g Yours of the 15th & 17th were both received at the same Time. It gives me concern to hear that the members of the Council give such bad attendance at a Time when Matters of so great Moment are in agi- tation, & when they know not but what their Presence may be of the last Importance. It is however impossible for me to quit the Army at this Time,—at least the bad consequences which would result from it would not be compensated by any Good which might arise from my attending at the Council Board. The wants of the Army which are many & which require the most instant Attention, are here represented to me on the spot, & the most immediate Measures are fallen upon to sup- ply or anticipate them. Not all the Exertions which could possibly have been made in Richmond, and by the Commissaries and others above, would have prevented the Army, either from suffering extreme Distress, or seizing the little that remains to the people of the neighbour- hood, to their utter ruin. It is my opinion that nothing should come into competition with our Endeavours to give Success to the present Military Operations, because if they fail, we shall have but the Shadow of a Government, if even that; whereas if they succeed, the Hands of Government will be stronger &will be more respectable than ever—The reason of my giving you but little News, is because there has been very
Page 475
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 475 little to communicate—We have been waiting for Reinforcements & 1781. necessaries, for commencing & carrying on the Seige. The Gen'l has Sept. 21st been absent four Days, on a Visit to the Count de Grasse. He is every hour expected back, & as Part of the Northern Troops are in the River, it is probable the Army will very soon move down—Supplies of Beef come in so slowly, that I am now under the necessity of taking from the People of this ravaged Part of the Country, what Humanity strongly inclined me to spare them—Some public Money is much wanted here. You will be pleased to order down to me about £30,000. The case of Bellamy Crawford, Clerk & Paymaster of the South Carolina Contincn- tal Hospital is just represented to me. His situation is such as excites Pity, and if it be possible claims public assistance. He has a wife far advanced in her Pregnancy & is destitute of every thing nccessary for a Woman in her condition & without the means of procuring them.— Exhausted as our Treasury is, I think we must on this occasion spare something from our little stock. You will send it to me, with the Money for public use. I am &c., T. N." MAJOR RD: CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES—in reply to his of 20th & 21st. Sept. 21st He had ordered supplies for Gonl: Spotswood's Troops to be provided Richmond at Fredericksburg, Bowling Green & Richmond. Capt Drew the only officer who has tents or knapsacks &c should be at once communicated with, to know whether he can furnish them or not—The Camp Kettles can be furnished at Fredericksburg by Mr. Hunter, and by himself at this place—Adds "I assure you Sir, that I will at all times give every assistance in my power to the State but I am illy able to do it at present, owing to the draughts which have been lately made by Colo. Carrington for the Southern Army, and the Army in this State—Owing to a want of money, or some other means, it will soon be the case, that I shall be destitute of Camp equipage, and have little prospect of being furnished with others, as the materials are not to be procured by anything of which I am possessed, and the Quarter Master General gives me no hopes of a supply from the Northard. I am very anxious about the wagon plan, and will by no means suffer an obstacle that can be sur- mounted, to hinder me in the execution of it. I am the more Solicitous upon the occasion, because I have no inducement for the People, and wish to have some mode adopted, which will bring them into service willingly—Money is the least of my thoughts in this case. and indeed in any other, unless there was some certainty in it; for that which has been Circulated heretofore decreases in value so fast, that I have little or no confidence in it." The greater part of the Boatmen had returned to their duty, and he hopes no trouble will again occur in this matter; and he is particularly grateful for the manner in which this subject has been treated &c.
Page 476
476 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: WM. DAVIES TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 21st "Sir, War Office I have just received your Excellency's favor of the 19th, and shall pay particular attention to every requisition. I have been long doing the duty which Mr. Armstead should have employed himself in, and have had a great difficulty in collecting the supplies which in the course of a week will be sent to you. The unsafe state which any stores, till lately would have been in at Richmond, the wide dispersion which the incursions of the enemy occa- sioned, the capital losses we sustaincd at the Point of Fork, and the fatal seizures which people without any authority daily make of public supplies, have all greatly obstructed our prospects of Cloathing and equipping the troops; but I hope by November, we shall have a suffi- ciency for them; at present they shall have all the Summer Cloathing the Season requires, and if we can get buttons, and a few more articles, we shall have the coats and jackets soon done; and brought forward, perhaps as soon as the middle of November. There is one Humphries in the militia of Henrico, now at Camp, that Mr. Ross had agreed with to make buttons, tho' I do not believe he has yet made any, who would perhaps engage to your Excellency immediately to employ himself about them if he might be permitted to do that business at home, instead of serving in the field as a Soldier—This Article, tho' it may seem a trifle, is yet a matter of real importance, as the cloathing will be retarded for want of them, and Mr. Ross does not know how other- wise to get them—I must therefore beg your Excellency's attention to this matter as well as to the circumstance of the tinman, which I men- tioned in one of my late letters"— * * * "I had brought the boat party into order two days ago, and I hope they will continue so." I have the honor to be, with sincerest Esteem, your Excellency's most obt. Serv't &c &c. Sept. 2Ut COL: JAS: HENDRICKS TO COL: DAVIES—Extract. Alexandria "Colonels Wardsworth and Carter, agents for the French army have engaged a number of assistants round the country to purchase beef, flour and forage for that army, with specie. that infatuating metal will immediately have such influence that not an ounce of any Kind of supplies will be furnished by the State agents. the people will go thro' thick and thin to get tho crowns and louis d'ors—I foresee tho most dangerous consequences arising from these separate interests. the Americal army must infallibly suffer." Ho then suggests, that some plan be devised by •which the Executive can contract to furnish them supplies, and control this money.
Page 477
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 477 COL: JAS: HENDRICKS TO THE EXECUTIVE. 1781. Sept. 21st Expressing surprise at having received their communication of the Alexandria 6th inst: informing him that Col: Ricd: Morris had reported him as delinquent in settling his accounts as collector of specific supplies received & delivered—The Colonel should have recollected that he (Hen- drieks) had never acted in that capacity. Gov: THOS: S. LEE TO Gov: NELSON OF VA. Sept. 21st "Sir, We are honored with your Excellency's Letter of the 13th inst, Annapolis, and shall feel ourselves happy in rendering every assistance in our power to the Army in Virginia, but from the distressed situation of our com- merce, the article of salt has become very scarce within this State, and we fear is not procureable in any short time. We have given directions to foward all the Flour that can possibly be collected without delay— upwards of two thousand barrels is ready, and part thereof shipped— The ressidue will be fowarded with all expedition." We are with very great personal respect and Esteem Your Excellency's mo: obed: & Hbl Servts, &c &c. Gov: THOS: S. LEE* TO Gov: NELSON—reed: the 27th. Sept. 21 st "Sir, This moment Major Genl: the Baron Viomenicl compleated the Friday noon embarkation of the French Troops under his command, destined for Head Quarters in Virginia—part of their baggage only, goes by water, the remainder is sent by Land. Apprehensive of danger from the Enemy, After the waggons pass Fredericksburg, the Baron desired me to solicit your Excellency to afford guards of militia for its protection from thence to Williamsburg—The Baggage will be at Fredericksburg about the 26th of this month, and if no accident happens, at Head Quarters the first of next. With sentiments of very great personal respect & Esteem, I have the honor to be, &c &c. *Imperfect private seal in wax.
Page 478
478 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JAMES HENDRICKS TO "JOHN PIERCE ESQR." Sept. 21st "Dear Sir, Alexandria I lament the want of vigorous Exertions in your Assistants in the Counties above me—yesterday came three waggons (which I had impressed in Loudon) without any flour—I now have it in my Power to send by water, all the flour that is made in Fairfax, Loudon, Berkley, Frederick, Hampshire, & Shenandoah, if it was order'd here. Certainly these Counties have flour if they would send it. all the supplys for this station I have Colected by the Comissioner for Fairfax—if the other Counties wou'd give half as much it wou'd do, and I know well some of them cou'd give three times the Qty: of flour." "The French agents have their assistants out Buying Flour & Beef with specie"—Insists that something be done to establish an under- standing between these agents and the Government, else the "Army must starve"—He had written to Commissioners, Magistrates, County Lieutenants and to every man of influence on this subject, but it "all will avail nothing, the Gold & Silver will overset all." Sept. 21st Hanover COL: J. SYME TO HON: DAVID JAMESON, by Mr. Lacy. "Dear Sir, I met yours of the 19th on the Road & am to tell you in Haste, that I am Doing all in my Power Both at Rockey Mills & New Castle (from w'ch last place I Return'd last night) that man can do, but am sorry to Report what I said so often that very little public Wheat is yet Brought in. I Have wth Mr. Butler's knowledge appointed Riders for the purpose of getting wheat in." * * * ****** With sorrow I inform you Colo. Call's Horse is upon me at New Cas- tle—I saw them there, You shall hear from me soon, mean time, I have the Honor to be, Dr. Sir &c." Sept. 21st Circular, from Thos. M. Kean President of Congress, to Gov: Nelson, Philadelphia of Aug: 31st & Sept 14th enclosing Acts of Congress "giving informa- tion in matters relating to the Consular & Vice-Consular Powers &c. Sept. 22d MR. PIERCE COM: G. PROVISIONS, TO COL: DAVIES. Commissa- He had used every effort to satisfy the complaints of the County ry's Office Commissioners and Sheriffs; and although their pay is certainly inade-
Page 479
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 479 quate to the services demanded of them, he is greatly surprised, that 1781. they should threaten to resign at a time when their exertions are so Sept. 22d imperiously demanded—He should make another appeal to them. RICHD: GRAHAM TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Sept. 22d "Dear Sir, On my return from Philadelphia, I found your favor of the Dumfries 4th inst.—I have not yet had it in my power to sco many of the people, but you may rely on my utmost exertions in prevailing on them to thresh out their wheat, & getting it sent to the Mill. but I am doubtful, that unless the farmer can be put on some certainty of the mode of payment, the quantities will not be sufficient for the demand—Colo. Blaine, C. Genl: (with whom I had some conversation on the subject in Philadelphia, called on mo yesterday on his way to Williamsb'g) is upon a plan to make a joint purchase for the French & American Army—if this can be effected, the ready money of the former will assist the credit of the latter & bring the Wheat to the Mills & the flour to the Army in sufficient quantities immediately—Whereas, in my opinion every attempt to get Flour by impressment will retard a supply—because in this case the millers will not buy wheat if their flour is impressed—And it will be a very slow & uncertain supply to impress wheat & men & Horses to thresh it out &c— * * * * * It will always give mo pleasure to render you any service in this quarter & am with the greatest respect. Dear Sir, Your Most Ob't Scrv'nt." Ro: BURTON, QUARTER MASTER &c—TO Gov: NELSON OF VA. (Express). Sept. 22d "Sir, Before this reaches you, you will I have no doubt, have heard of State North Governor Burke's being taken prisoner by the Tories' and carry'd to ^arol!°a' Wilmington; a circumstance to this State truly alarming; Since his County Excellency's being Captured, the Lieutenant Governor has never con- vened a Council, therefore your Letter of the 13th cannot be answered officially—but as all the Letters directed to Governor Burke, that has come to hand, since his captivity, has been left in my care by the Presi- dent of the Council, I have taken the Liberty opening yours—Your Excellency urges the necessity of this State supplying yours with salt and Beef; the former there will (in my opinion) be no possibility of fur- nishing you with, it being so scarce here, that the inhabitants must suf- fer greatly for want of it—We have of the Latter, very large quantities, but it is mostly in the hands of individuals. if proper persons were
Page 480
480 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. sent, largo purchases might bo made here, which certainly would meet Sept. 22d with the sanction of the Lieut Governor, and the Council when they meet. Should any one be sent on 'this business, they would in all prob- ability meet the Govr. & Council here, if they by that time should have convened—If they should not, any service to foward the purchase would be cheerfully rendered by me. Battle of Bu- On Saturday 8th Instant, Genl: Greene had an Engagement with the ^w pnngs, Enemy near the Eutaw Springs So. Carolina, all his Troops except one Maryland, and one Virginia Regiments, were opposed to the whole British forces—the affair was obstinate and Bloody—our loss (tho' we had a victory) was great—Col: Campbell of-your State was Killed, Major Edmunds wounded—several other valuable Officers of Virginia and this State Killed and wounded—our loss in privates considerable; The Enemy's loss in this action was 300 Killed, 526 wounded, & 200 prisoners—I forgot to mention that Col: Washington and every Officer he had with him in Action were wounded, except Capt: Parsons—the Colonel's wound slight. Tho victory would have been more compleat, had it not been that the Enemy fought under cover of a largo Brick House. On Monday 10th Instant Genl: Green had a second engagement with the British—tho event of this day not known. I am, Your Excellency's Most obet Servt, &c &c. Sept. 22d COL: W. EDMONDS TO COL: DAVIES. Fauquier Co. The number of Militia of the County eight hundred and eighty-seven over eighteen years of age; and one hundred and three under eighteen exclusive of Officers—He has public money on hand, and desires to know what to do with it. If.any irregularities occur in his duties as Co. Lieut: ho must not be held responsible, inasmuch as ho has never received tho amendments to the Militia Laws made at the last Session of the Assembly. Genl: Weodon has undertaken to give him orders, but he shall not obey them until informed as to the authority he claims. Sept. 22d WILLIAM HANNAH TO Gov: NELSON. "May it please your Excellency, Urbanna Having arrived here on Saturday the 8th ult: as a Flag of Truce from York, by permission from Lieut: Gen'l Earl Cornwallis, also a passport from Commodore Symonds with Negroes the property of Mr. R. Wormeley, and other Gentl'n on Rappahannock
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 481
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 481 .River, also some other Effects, and in no way whatever have deviated 1781. from the nature of a flag, but adhered in the strictest manner to the Sept. 22d sanction of flags, on my arrival was taken from my vessel and put in Confinement without alledging any fault on my part and not allowed the least necessary of clothes or any necessary for my support, untill an ans'r wou'd arrive from your Excellency, or some other deputed to order the Negroes to be landed or returned, and the flag dismissed, but kept here in suspense, altho' you ordered the owners of the slaves to receive their property, and deliver them when called for— Still it has not been done, as the Commanding Officer of the County has not permitted their Landing on acc't of the Small Pox, and fixing a proper place for that purpose—Sensible if the matter had been known to you, I should not have rec'd such treatment, without any reason assigned, as Col: Edmondson examined the Vessel, which was under Guard and found every thing as represented by this—Shou'd be glad some Offi'r was appointed to examine the facts, and the flag dismissed— Your kindness in answering this will be Esteemed by Your Excellency's most ob't and m't h'ble Serv't," &C&c. COL: GEORGE MUTTER TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 22d "Sir, Hearing (in Albemarle) that a very considerable body of Militia Richmond was ordered into duty, I came down to this p.lace (again) to offer my services to your Excellency, in case you thought proper to honour me with a command; and I intended to have wailed on you at Camp for that purpose, but I have this moment been informed (by Colo: John Nicholas) that all Officers that have not commands, even belonging to- the Continental Army, are ordered out of Camp; and that after this day, such as come into Camp, unless they are in command, or are engaged in business for the Army, will immediately be sent out and their horses be taken: this information obliges mo to stop short: and I shall remain at this place for a few days, in hopes of being honoured with some directions from your Excellency, whether I shall proceed to Camp, or return from whence I came. Mr. Ross, on a supposition, I should proceed to Camp, as I intended, gave me a memorandum to apply to your Excellency to get you,.if possible, to persuade one or two hands, skilled in building batteaux, such as are used to navigate the shallow rivers to the northward, from the Northern Army, to work for a short time in building batteaux for the navigation of James River above the falls; to put such tradesmen as can be procured in the way of building such vessels—He conceives it to be essentially necessary to provide such vessels, as the canoes at present used answer but badly for the purpose. 61
Page 482
482 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. I have taken the liberty to mention this to your Ex'cy, as Mr. Rons is Sept. 22d out of town and I feared some inconvenience might attend the delaying any application to you, on this account, 'till his return. I have the honor to bo your Excellency's most obedient humble Serv't," &c. &c. Sept. 22d CAPT: T. H. DBEW TO COL: DAVIES. Carter's The certificate he had given him, had proved valueless, "for want of the date" of his becoming a Supernumerary at the time the Gov: & Council ordered the three State-Regiments into one. He had written to Col: Dabney on the subject, but ho could give him no satisfaction in the matter. He then wrote to Col: Mutter, who had commanded the Regt: to give him a certificate, but he replied, that ho was not the .proper per- son to whom to apply &c &c—Adds "All this, Collo: brings no money & by God I've not a shilling in my pocket." Begs ho will take the trouble to procure him a proper certificate, upon which ho can realize his pay &c. Sept. 22<1 "Being requested by the Gov'r to bring all the arms I could get and • Camp before that desired by a Conductor, thro' the hands of Mr. French Strother, to toward the public arms that came to Culpeper Co. Ho. to Camp, I bro't 280 Muskets to Genl: Stevens' Brigade, and now have tho Brigade Q. M. Rece't for'tho same. (Signed) JAS: BARBOUR, Copy. Colo Culpeper Co." Sept. 23d WM. McCaAW, DEP'TY Q. MASTER TO COL: DAVIES. ***** Peytonsburg "I have been assisted by tho Counties of Halifax, Bedford, & Henry with tho greatest cheerfulness; but rejected in every attempt by part of tho Court Martial of Pittsylvania, with violence of ambition. which I confess was raised higher by a motion being made by one of the Field Officers to treat my letters with disrespect in throwing it under the table—The letter I wrote was requesting indulgence for the waggoners, Canteen makers & Express Riders, which is the life of intelligence & transportation—Under the circumstances I have had waggons left with- out drivers & dispatches from one Army to another detained an unrea- sonable time. The repeated and heavy complaints from the Southern Army for want of the supplies in my hands was the first thing that induced me to offer
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 483
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 483 to procure discharges against militia duty, as I was totally disappointed 1781. in geting any assistance from the States brigaded, and County waggons.. Sept. 23d I have never transported an article in but one State waggon from this to Oliphant's Mills, and have lately sent on forty loads. His influence with the people had induced them to aid his means of transportation— He should never do otherwise than respect the authority of Co. Lieutenants and Court Martials—His Canteen Makers seem willing to work, if they can be allowed some time to provide for their families— men of property are above undertaking such work, and poor men can- not make enough by it to support their families. * * * Concludes "Where there is little prospect of cash, and a long servitude, the labourer is indifferent; this I only mention to you." Capt: Rich'd Young, A. D. Q. Master, writes, "There are several men Sopt. 23d employed as Agents to purchase flour &c for the French Army and for Frederic'sb'g which they pay a generous price in hard money—if this plan is pursued we shall not be able to furnish supplies with Certificates—I should wish to be informed the difference if there is any. I should think all the sup- plies should pass through the Quarter Masters and Commissioners hands; if this is not the case one Army will be well supplied, while the other is likely to suffer." COL: WM. DAVIES TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 23d "Sir, There appears so much difficulty in procuring supplies for the War Office Army, altho' the people are well affected, and there is a plenty in the Country^ that I cannot refrain from expressing to your Excellency what I think would be attended with beneficial effects. ' At present the Audi- tore settle for certificates at the depreciation allowed by Government, at the time the certificates were given. This perhaps may be well enough, if there was always money enough in the Treasury to pay off every warrant that was produced, as then it would in some measure be the fault of the people if they did not immediately apply for the money which they know would be ready for them. Yet, even in that case, there would be much inconvenience especially to those that lived remote from the seat of government, or whoso certificates were of small amount. But in the present situation matters are infinitely worse; and people who have supplied the Country six months ago, not only find the greatest difficulty to get the sums their warrants specify, but have those sums ascertained at the depreciation allowed at the time the certificates were granted; and probably when they actually receive their money, they will not-be able to purchase with it the thousandth part of the sup- plies they furnished. The consequence of this is, that the people full
Page 484
484 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. well aware of the difficulty of getting their money at all, and under- Sept. 23d standing that warrants will be granted for no more than the depreci- ation at the time the certificates were granted, and withal conceiving that the depreciation thus fixed is considerably below the truth, of course become extremely unwilling to contribute anything to the public sup- plies; and look upon everything taken from them or furnished by them as so much lost or given away. Some method therefore should be adopted to remedy this fatal evil, which will infallibly starve the army unless speedily put a stop to. In our present situation and during the recess of the assembly I know of no other expedient than for the Executive to direct the Auditors to settle all certificates at the rate of depreciation allowed—they should be produced to them, and not at the rates fixed when they were given— The consequence of this would be, that the people who have thom know- ing that whenever they produce them they would be allowed the then depreciation, and not what was allowed many months before, would not be so uneasy at the idea of their value sinking in their hands, as is the case at present; as by the mode proposed they would always be of equal value, and of consequence the public might be largely credited upon them. I have considered the Law of the last session upon this subject, and find nothing in it contrary to the plan I propose. If however the pres- ent system is persisted in, the difficulties of supplying the Army will increase with the depreciation, and the armament now assembling will infallibly be dispersed without the assistance of an enemy. I beg your Excellency to pardon the liberty I take; nothing but my zeal for the service would induce me to trouble you with this representa- tion. I have the honor to be with great respect Your Excellency's most obedt • and humble Servt &c &c." Sept. 23d Gov: NELSON TO COL: DA VIES. "Sir, Williamsb'g Since I wrote to you on the 19th I have received yours of the 17th and 19th—the former including a Return of military stores, the hitter a copy of the Militia Law. I shall write to Mr. Dick, & direct him to make regular Returns of the Arms &c at Fredericksbug Gun Factory, which he ought to have done, without my Orders. Such Horses as are unfit for service, or such as cannot speedily be made so, I think it will be most advisable to sell, Keeping particular Descriptions of them, that Justice may be done their owners, if they can be found.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 485
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 485 All the Powder ought to be purchased that can be met with; & a sup- 1781. ply of cartridges is much wanted, we being under the necessity of bor- Sept. 23d rowing from the Park to comply with the Requisitions from Gloucester. If I can hear of a Tinman, I will endeavour to engage & send him up to you. We still remain as distant from the Enemy, as when I last wrote. We have been waiting for Reinforcements & necessaries for carrying on a Seige, & struggling with the Difficulties of subsisting the Army. It will be proper to get from Major Claiborne, a Return of the Horses delivered to him, a copy of which you will be pleased to transmit to me. I am Sir, Your obdt & very hble Servt. COLO. WM. GRIFFIN TO GOVERNOR NELSON, in Williamsburg. Sept. 24th He had not rc'd his orders of the 17th inst: in regard to impressing Camp Ware horses, until the 21st — Seventy or eighty should be at Dudley's Ferry by Wednesday evening next the 26th — should continue collecting them, confining his operations " to those who have been backward in contributing either personal or property assistance to their distress'd Country in time of need" — If the horses are intended for the "Grand Camp" — a guard would be necessary, and requests that Wm. Dudley who keeps the Ferry be required to receive them — His regiment much curtailed by Wecdon's the severe duty as guards sent out on this service, and desires Genl: Weedon, commanding at that place, should be informed of the nature of his orders by which he is absent so much of his time &c. JAMES ANDERSON TO MR. ARCHIBALD BLAIR, giving "Return" of negro Sept. 24th slaves belonging "to the Public," and accounting for the same. Several had been returned to the owners claiming them—four had Richmond gone off "with the British," and seven then in his possession. Resolutions, assigning Brig: Genl: Irwin to the Command of Fort Sept. 24th Pitt—with power to reorganize the troops at that Place, and "its In Congress dependencies," so as to dispense with supernumerary officers &c—to reorganize the Staff-Department, & with authority to call out the militia for the defence of all Posts under his command, and the protection of the Country generally—To effect this the Executives of adjacent States are requested to require the Officers of their militia to obey the Orders of Genl: Irwin.
Page 486
486 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: JAS: INNES TO GOVR. NELSON. Sept. 24th "Dear Sir, Camp at General Weedon is puting into immediate Execution the pow- 6 ° ere you were pleased to vest me with, to procure supplies of provisions— and I have no doubt but that the Army on the other side will soon feel the beneficial Effects of his Efforts. I am sorry to inform you that yr: Expectations of the strength of General Weedon's Army far exceed what it really is—The General will, as soon as possible put me in posses- sion of the honorable Command you have thought proper to recommend me to, but the troops in this quarter are so few as not to be competent to the formation of even one tolerably strong Brigade—nor is there a prospect of a speedy augmentation, unless it may be thought expedient to throw over two or three well organized and officered Battalions from the South Side of York River—The Northern Neck Counties are extremely deficient in their quotas, and those few men they have sent foward are quite raw & undisciplined, and diminishing every Day by Desertion. I have done myself the honor to make this Representation of the State of affairs in Gloster, and have not a doubt, but that you will adopt proper measures to give us a speedy Reinforcement; without which we expend rations to no purpose. I have the honor to be, most respectfully Yr: Excellency's mo: ob Servt. Sept. 24th MAJOR THOS. POSEY, COMMANDING—TO COL: DAVIES. Cumberland When Col: Febiger left for Philadelphia, he gave no instructions as to Old C. H. JJow tne post was to be supplied with stores, or how provisions were to be collected from the Commissioners of the Counties—He has applied to these without effect, although there are sufficient in that County alone to support the Post—Commissary Stores and forage are consequently almost exhausted—Only one wagon is left "to do the duty of the Ren- dezvous." He has neither Iron or steel or axes, cross cut, or whip saws and therefore cannot possibly finish the Huts before winter Sets in.— The people do not like to lend their axes—Unless these implements are furnished he will not be able to get the plank necessary for the "bunks" for the Sick—In addition to these wants, "the soldiers are very naked and scarcely onc blanket among the whole of them to cover a man"— In view of the approach of winter he begs the Gov: and Council may empower him to take such steps as may place the Rendezvous in proper condition for the reception of the recruits expected. He has a number of Sick men, but no Surgeon or medicine; has applied to Doctr. Wilson for releif, but the only reply to his communication is a promise "to send the needful" as soon as possible. Lieut Baskerville, is to act as recruit- ing officer of the Post.
Page 487
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 487 CAPT JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DA VIES, thanking him for the "Return" of 1781. military stores enclosed to him, but pointing out a descrepancy Sept. 24th between this and Capt Bohannan's report. He regrets the "Cannon & Ordnance of the State" had not been Camp at included, as Genl: Knox has called upon him to report what amount is 'iams g on hand—Bogs ho may be at once informed upon this point, at what places they are deposited and whether there are "any carriages or Beds to be found"—The Ammunition for the Riflemen has arrived safe. Col: Bar- bour is much mortified at the tone of the letter he received from the Governor, in consequence of the information given by Col: Davies—It appears to have beon Barbour's intention to foward the arms to Camp, rather than retard them, as will appear by enclosed certificates—Asks for instructions as to how he shall dispose of the arms of the discharged militia.—Concludes—"The last division from North'd are now moving up the River—no march'g orders as yet"—&c. * * COL: BEN: BLUNT TO Gov:'NELSON, informing him, ho had sent out Sept. 24th horsemen to Nansomond, Southampton, Greensville, Brunswick, Din- widdio & Sussex Counties to collect horses, and in a few days should be able to furnish "a considerable number— The troops at that place have been reduced from ' about four hundred, Surry to two hundred, with eleven Officers by severe sickness—"A raging fever in Southampton, has carried off a number of people." In conse- quence of this, many men have been furloughed, who may soon return— In as much as only one fourth the militia arc required to be in the field, and as it is said a portion will be discharged "as soon as his Exce'y returned from on board"—ho requests to be informed whether he is to march with his whole force or only such proportion of them. MAJOR RICHD. CLAIBORNE TO HON: DAVID JAMISON LT: GOVR. endos- Sept. 26th ing extracts of letters from Col: Jas: Hendricks, Ass: D. Q. Master at Alexandria, and Mr. Richd. Young at Fredericksburg, complaining of the French Agents who are purchasing all the Flour and Beef in the Country for cash in Specie. The people, of course preferring "French Crowns" to paper money and Government certificates will not sell to the State or "Continent," while this practice continues—So far it applies to only two Districts, but should it become general. he despairs of being able to meet the demands of his Department. Begs that some action may be taken in the premises.
Page 488
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. THOS: POLLOCK TO Gbv: NELSON, making application for payment of Sept. 2flth amount Bill for "600 Spanish Milled Dollars, 7 Bits & half" drawn on the State of Virginia by Colo. Montgomery. Philadelphia This money had been advanced by his uncle Ol: Pollock of N. Orleans, when the troops in the West were suffering for food and clothing &c. Sept. 26th Wm. Armstead informs Col: Davies of his having again entered into Richmond an arrangement with "the Honble the Council" to act as "Commissary of Stores." Sept. 26th Charles Stewart and Eph: Elaine Com: Gens: of Stores, apply to Gov: Williamsb'g Nelson for vessels, boats and other means of transportation for 5,130 fills: of Flour and Meal, purchased at George Town, Baltimore, Rich- mond, Petersburg, Annapolis, Fredericksburg, Dumfries, and Head of Elk—The cattle procured in Maryland is all to be slaughtered and salted. Boats to transport it in bulk, there being no casks to be gotten, will be wanted at Vienna in Dorchester Co and at Snow Hill in Worcester County. The wants of the Army demand great and immediate exertions. Sept. 26th JAS: JONES AND THEO. BLAND, DEL: IN CONGRESS, TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Philadelphia Yesterday's post arrived without any letter from your Excelly: to us—HiVe cannot help observing to your Excelly. that the operations of the fleet and army are of so important a nature at this crisis of affairs in Europe, that an hourly communication, if it was practicable would certainly be Eligible; and we therefore lament that no authentic Intelli- gence has come from them to Congress for ten days past, altho' we are inform'd from every quarter that there has been an action of some con- sequence at Sea—A considerable body (said to be 5000) of land forces has been embarked at New York, and were certainly held in readiness for an expedition for some which Kept this City and Jersey in a state of alarm—in consequence of which a large body of militia have been ordered into the field from both these States and Delaware, who are now actually under arms, with a considerable body of Regulars under Major Genl: Sinclair—the return of the British fleet to New York much disabled (as we are told) has developed the mistery of the destination of the Embarkation at New York (which was intended for Chesapeake had their fleet been successfull) and they are now debarked as is said at Staten Island.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 489
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 489 Affairs in Europe seem to wear a misterious aspect—Some powers 1781. being restrained from entering into the War by the principles of Neu- Sept. 26th trality which they have embraced and avowed—others in consequence of having assumed a mediatorial character—and others with a Countries Policy, watching the motions of the two latter, and waiting for decisive events among the Belligerent powers—But every thing seems to point out that all except France, stand aloof from an alliance with us, untill some favorable event on our side shall turn the Ballance in our favor— this points out to us the necessity of Every Exertion on our part in order to gain a decisive advantage and if possible weaken the pretentious of Great Britain, by driving her Troops out of the Continent. This can only be done by repairing the deranged state of our finances and recruit- ing our Armies to their full complement—The Great and Generous Exer- tions of our Ally in our favour certainly call on us for similar ones on our side, and intitlo them to Expect from us, that we will put every engine in motion to obtain these two great ends, therefore it behoves us to act with Energy and call forth all our resources to ensure a good and speedy Peace—" "Read & approved by James Madison & sign'd at his request." Joel Early Lieut: Comdg. informs Gov: Nelson of the Capture of ves- Sept. 26th sels laden with stores, by "the British plundering boats." These latter Travis Point are very active, but ho will watch their movements, and give timely notice of their operations. MAJOR R. CLAIBORNE TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Sept. 26th In accordance with his orders, has directed supplies to be collected at Richmond, the Bowling Green and Fredericksburg for "the Troops of the Legion"—Capt: Drew has sent down the tents for the horsemen and others; 1428 haversacks—24 cast-pots but no Camp Kettles because ho has none. He has always acted, in his department, under the advico of Col: Carrington in considering the Militia as to be supported by the State until "embodied in the field under the Commanding general"—In this view, he must decline to issue to Genl: Spotswood's Legion, except to such an extent as to save them from suffering—The State is however better able to make issues of forage and provisions, having means at her disposal, which the Continental service has not. 62
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 490
490 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Gov: NELSON TO COLO: JOHN S. WELLS. Sept. 26th "Sir, Williamsb'g Should you find it necessary to keep Mackay's Mills going and that it cannot be done without drawing off the Water from the Mills above, on the same streams, you are hereby authorized and impowered so to do, the public service absolutely requiring that no obstruction be given to the work to be carried on at the said Mills. You will send Peter Stone under Guard to mo at this place. Given under my hand at Williamsburg this twenty fifth Day of Sept: 1781. Sept. 26th Gov: NELSON TO LORD CORNWALLIS. "My Lord, Williamsb'g Many of the former Inhabitants of York having applied to me for a Flag to bring out their Effects, your Lordship will do me the Favor to inform me whether it will be agreeable to you to allow them this Liberty; and if it is, at what Time it will be most proper for their Waggons &c to attend for this Purpose. I must also request that your Lordship will inform me of the Reason of Dr. Griffin's Confinement on Board of one of your Prison Ships. If your Lordship will permit such of the Inhabitants as are now in York to come out with their Effects, Waggons will be sent at the same time for thoir use." I have the honor to be &c." Sept. 26th "EXTRACT OF A LETTER from Lt: Governor Martin of North Carolina to Governor Nelson, dated Salisbury—Sept: 25th 1781. Salisbury A letter hath come into my hands addressed to Governor Burke from General Green, relative to some prisoners taken at black Mingo in So Carolina, who were sent into this State. Upon enquiry, I find a Major Rose had marched there some time last Winter or Spring from Halifax in this State some where into Virginia, whore perhaps they may be at present. Inclosed your Excellency hath a copy of Colo Balfour's letter toGenl: Greene together with the General's answer on that subject. As these prisoners are not in Carolina, but supposed to be somewhere in your State, your Excellency will have it in your power to comply with the General's request which is "If there are any prisoners that have been taken in arms in the enemy's service, who have not been released, agreeable to the advertisement of the commissary of prisoners of both armies, that you give orders for it without loss of time. Humanity and policy rendered the mode necessary, and I persuade myself, you will support me in the measure."
Page 491
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 491 As our Militia are in great want of lead, in their present emergence, 1781. I have taken the liberty to write to the manager of the lead mines to Sept. 26th favor us with two tons if possible, or as much as can be spared, &c." Gov: NELSON TO BULLER CLAIBORNE ESQR. Sept. 26th "Sir, You will please to stop all Vessels coming down either of the Williamsb'g Branches of York river with provisions of any kind whatever, at Fra- zier's and Ruffin's Ferry, and if possible have them stored at those places: the danger attending Vessels coming down the River at this time being infinitely too great to hazard the Loss of any others—three having been captured by the Enemy this Day." Gov: NELSON TO "COMODORE BARON." Sept. 26th "Sir, As we are at present in great want of your assistance, I should be Williamsb'g glad to see you without Loss of time in Wmsburg, when Business of consequence waits your arrival. Gov: NELSON TO COLO: R'D MORRIS. Sept. 20th "Sir, The great Difficulty of supplying the Army with Provisions & the Williamsb'g fatal consequences which may attend a scarcity of them, oblige me to request in the most earnest manner, that you will immediately come down to the Place & lend us your assistance in this way. 1 know your aversion from engaging in public affairs, but so important is the occa- sion & so soon I hope will the Necessity of extraordinary Aid be over, that I flatter myself your Regards for the public Welfare will prevail over your Reluctance to engage in this Business, in which I am per- suaded you will be in the highest Degree useful. I am Sir &c." COL: WM. DAVIES TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 26th "Sir, I had the honor to receive your Excellency's favor of the 24th by War Office Express, last evening. 1 gave immediate directions to Captain Bohan- non, to foward all the ammunition he has prepared. The difficulty of transportation has retarded the supplies in some degree, as I thought the first object in the present situation of the Army was provision, and the next a supply of ammunition. All the intrenching tools belonging to the state have been receipted for and delivered to Major Claiborne's
Page 492
492 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sept. 26th order, some days ago. The powder is sent for from every quarter, but there will be many difficulties attending the Collection. Since writing your Excellency, I have received from Major Dick, a return of the Arms made and repaired by him since the begining of the year—There have been 548 repaired arms, 553 new ones and 380 bayonets, delivered from the Factory between New Year's day and the first of this month, with- out the authority or knowledge of government. Mr. Dick, however, in his letter professes his readiness to give every information that may be required, and promises in future to deliver no arms without an order from proper authority. I enclose to your Excellency, the return you required, and a return of ordnance, which is not accurate, as the enemy have thrown them into some confusion since the accounts were taken— All the Commissions that you had signed, have been issued. I have therefore enclosed a number to your Excellency to obtain your signature, and will thank you to return them by a safe opportunity. I have also sent some that arc filled up for Officers from Loudon agreeable to recom- mendations filed. I have the honor to be, with great respect, &c. Sept. 26th Camp New- sum's Old Field LEWIS BURWELL COL: COMDQ. TO Gov: NELSON. "Your Excellency will receive enclosed a return of the Militia at this Camp—Col Blunt has wrote you & given an Account of the men under his Command at Surry Old Court House—Col: Elliott who is encamped seven miles from this, has promised to make you a return of his Batal- lion. You will please to inform me by the Bearer, whether any of the militia are to be discharged & what proportion— I am your Excellency's Most obt Servant—" "There appears to be a large number of the Mcchlenburg Militia on furlough—It has-happen'd by the Officers in the County not attending to their duty." Sept. 26th Col: John Cropper Jnr: informs the Governor in reply, that hois Accomack using every means to have "corn beat out and oats threshed" to be sent ^°' at once to Burwell's Bay as directed—The Commissioners of the Pro- vision Law and himself have already impressed and collected a consid- erable quantity of spirits "for this small place" and are now sending it over to the Army.
Page 493
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 493 COL: JNO: SWANN TO COL: DAVIES, declining to serve longer as Com- 1781. missioner for that County. Sept. 26th The old wheat on hand amounts to enough to make about two hun- Powhatan dred barrels of flour. He has sent two boat-men to Westham with flour— Recommends the building of canoes for the navigation of the River; they not requiring so many men, are more easily managed, and two of them being capable of carrying as much as three boats. He shall always deem it his duty to do all in his power for his Country. Michael Wall, Commissioner, excuses himself to Col: Davies for not Sept. 26th having transmitted his "Register of British horses and public Estrays," Surry Co. because he has been obliged "to employ all hands in collecting provisions for the Army." JAMES CLAY TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 26th "Sir, I have dispatch'd the bearer to acquaint you wth the movements Travis Point of two gun boats: they appeared off hero about 2-o-clock this morning Wedmornin and I beleive were inclined to have Visited us but for the vigilance of onr guards. I march'd a small party about two miles above this, expect- ing they might land in this quarter. They paid Rippose Hall o-clk on their way up the River—its impossible to conjecture their busi- ness, unless to cutt off more of our provision craft or plunder the Inhab- itants on the River—I have a Horseman out watching their movemts— I have heard a few heavy guns below Yk: this morning. I am Sir, &c &c." Lieut: Col: John Taylor informs Col: Davies, that Genl: Spotswood, Sept. 26th being unable to procure anything for the troops of his Legions, but for- Caroline Co. ago, had dismissed them, to reassemble on the 20th Oct: next, at which time it was supposed they would be equipped—He wishes Col: Meadeto be informed of this—Genl: Spotswood's illness is the cause of his not communicating this information himself. Robt. Andrews, Secy: to Gov: Nelson, orders the Comdg. Officer of Sept. 26th the Loudon militia, wherever found on the march, to report without Williamsb'g delay with .his command to Genl: Weedon in command of the camp in Gloucester Co.
Page 494
494 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Geo: Rice replies to Col: Davies' orders respecting a return of amount Sept. 26th of clothing received by him, that he has rec'd none except from the Albemarle County of Shenandoah—All other than this has been rec'd by Capt: Barracks Peyton. Sept. 26th R. ANDREWS, SECY: TO Gov: NELSON, TO GENL: WEEDON. "Sir, Williamsb'g Mr. Hunter has laid before the governor a variety of matter, part only of which can be just now observed on. The hurry of business and the Governor's Indisposition oblige me to defer the consideration of many particulars 'till to-morrow. A Body of London militia on their march to this place, have been ordered to change their route and join you immediately. They amount, we are told to about four or five hundred men. The Governor has directed that all the negroes taken from the Enemy, to be returned to their former proprietors. The principle on which it is supposed men fight at present, is to protect and secure to themselves and fellow citizens their liberties and property, and not to procure plunder. I am Sir, with very great respect Your obedt & very hble Servt." Sept. 26th R. ANDREWS TO COL: R. H. LEE. "Sir, Williamsb'g The day before yesterday your Favour of the 21st Inst: was received. The warrants were intended for more extensive Distribution than your own County, but were enclosed to you as a Gentleman of Extensive Influence & acquaintance with the Persons to whom it would be proper to entrust them. Ten horses have been received from you by the Feild Qr. Master Genl: five of which he says will not answer for Camp Purposes—He therefore returns them—The Governor entreats that you will urge on the men employed in procuring Provisions for the Army, to the greatest Industry. Beef is much wanting—Vessels are sent up Potowmack for Flour, Corn, Meal, &c. By Order of &c." Sept. 26th Col: Samp: Mathews informs Gov: Nelson, in reply to his of the 14th Cloverdale Instant, that he has ordered "200 beef Cattle & 30 waggon Loads of Flour & Spirits to be at Col: Esvin's Ordinary on Saturday the 6th next month" to proceed at once to the Army—He will also forward soon after "80 or 100 head of cattle & 5 or 6 waggons" which will be all that can possibly be furnished from that County.
Page 495
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 495 WM. HAY, Ass: C. AGENT. Mr. Ross' absence from the City has deferred a reply to his of the day before—Ho regrets ho cannot give a full return of the Hemp, altho' the the Commissioners have been repeatedly written to on the subject. This neglect however may have grown out of the fact that a Special Agent had been employed to collect all the "Tax Hemp" from the Hemp growing Counties and forward it to Philadelphia. If he has kept proper receipts, the amount may be known hereafter— 1781. Sept. 26th Richmond COL: JAMES HENDRICKS TO JAMES MCALISTER of Berkely Co. Sept. 26th "Dear Sir, As your County is out of my district I am at a loss to know Alexandria whether you continue to act as Commissioner. However, whether you do or not, for God's sake exert yourself and send down all the Flour you can, as our Army is in a starving condition—let the People know that this is in all probability the last time they will be call'd on in this manner—a,few weeks exertions and the enemy is expeled our State for ever. Wth Est: Yr: Obt: H'ble Serv't. Jno. Robertson, D. Q. M. Genl: informs Col: Davies, he has appointed Sept. 26th a Commissioner in Powhatan in place of Mr. John Swann, and has pro- Richmond vided also for the Post at Carter's Ferry, with instructions to the Store- keeper and Issuing Commissary at Cumberland Old Co. House accord- ingly- MAJOR R'D CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES. Sept. 26th Ho desires to know whether the Governor requires a i; return" of all Richmond the horses he has receipted for, since he was made Deputy Q. Master, or only of those more recently fowarded to the Army? He begs leave to say, that the "ideas of Col: Carrington shall never supersede Resolu- tions of Congress" with him, but being a stranger to the resolves refer- red to, was influenced by his advice. Asks for Copy of Journals of Congress (having never been able to obtain them) in order that mis- takes on his part may in future be avoided. Expresses gratitude for the several communications he has lately made him, and hopes they may be continued, in as much as his suggestions always have great weight with him.
Page 496
496 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Major Posoy had communicated with him also, in regard to the Con- Sept. 26th dition of the Post at Cumberland Old C. House. Ho will give attention to this at once—Capt: Young reports he has "not ono of the Tools required." Sept. 26th • DAVID JAMESON TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, In Council, We are very sorry to inform you, that in those parts of the Coun- ic mond ^.^ wncro Agents are employed to purchase provisions for the French Fleet & Army, our Commissaries or Commissioners can procure no sup- plies—The People withold their Wheat in hope of receiving a present payment in Specie.—It is absolutely necessary something should be done, or our Army will be starved. We should have written to you yesterday, on receiving the letters & extracts now enclosed to you; but Mr. Ross who has had this matter in contemplation, is out of Town. Was he here, we should propose to him to go immediately to Camp, and after conferring with you, to make application to the Superintendant or director of those Agents: fully persuaded he can strike at some mode of procuring the necessary supplies for both Armies and Fleet that will be agreeable to all parties—Seeing the necessity of something to be imme- diately done, we trouble you with this letter, that you may pave the way for Mr. Ross, to whom wo have sent an Express, and hope ho will be with you in a short time after your receipt of this. With the greatest Esteem, I have the honor to be, Your Excell'ys mo: ob: Serv't." Sept. 27th JNO: PIERCE TO THE GOVERNOR, setting forth the complaints made by Richmond his Deputies in tho upper Counties against the Agents of the French who by paying tho cash in specie are securing all tho provisions and supplies. The people sell to them, and refuse to give aid to tho County Com- missioners, many of whom have resigned their places on this account. Sept. 27th Proceedings of a Court Martial held for the trial of John Custis, known as "Sea-side John" and William Garrison, charged with treason against the State, in stirring up the people to resist the Draft on April 23d, 1781, for raising men to serve in the Continental Army. Accomack Present at the Court, Colo. John Cropper, Co. Lieut: and President. Colo. Wm. Parramore, Colo. Selby Simpson, Major Henry Custis-'— Major William Young—Captains, Elijah Garrett, Wm. Snead, John Cus-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 497
CALENDAR OF STATE. PAPERS. 497 tis, Rob't Coleburn, Zonobablo Rodgers, Americus Scarbrough, Thos. 1781. Fisher & Garret Topping— Sept. 27th George Corbin, Judge Advocate. Sundry Depositions taken, proved the following facts—That on the day appointed for the draft, Custis and Garrison and Saml: Bunting men of property had, at the head of a mob of several hundred armed followers repaired to the Court House and expressed a determination to resist the draft—had effected their purpose, by inciting others to violence, by Seizing the papers of the Officers and destroying them—Threats were made, that three hundred men from Northampton would come to their aid, if the people of Accomac were so pusillanimous as to submit—Col: Corbin and his guard were threatened, and he denounced, for having manned a piece of Artillery on the occasion—The Court was unani- mously of opinion, that they were guilty and, voted accordingly. BBIG: GEN: G. WEEDON TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 27th "Dear Sir, I am honored with your Excellency's Letter 24th Inst., and Camp 'Ware now have the pleasure of transmitting you the Inspector's return of all the Militia on this side, as also this morning's return of the Brigade.— By the latter your Excellency will be informed of our Operating Force amounting to 1134. I observe with you, the propriety of not promoting Officers above the Rank they hold in the Line: when I made applica- tion for Major Campbell I understood he had been promised the appoint- ment, but suppose my information was wrong. Col: Innis, agreablo to your wish, is now at the head of the advanced Brigade, consisting of 3 Battalions of Infantry, one of Grenadiers, & Webb's Corps of Horse, consisting of 50. The rest of the Line forms two small Regiments comm'd by Cello's Page & Griffin: we are this day reinforced by the Duke de Lauzun's Infantry, which adds countenance to our little Army on this side. I had it in contemplation to take post between Dixon's & Burwell's Mills, but on roconnoitering the position, with the Duke de Lauzun & others of his Officers, it was thought hazardous, with our present force. Wo have however been able to prevent Simooe from coming far abroad, by appearing frequently in the lower Country. Deserters come to us every day: they all agree in their accounts of a scarcity of Forage in Gloster. Respecting the impressing Business, I was innocently involved in that disagreeable duty, by your Warrant to Col: Innis, who pressed it on me as Commanding Officer: he wrote the instructions himself & concluded they were your ideas—I had not offi- cers to send out & was obliged to detach Sergeants commands, directing 63
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 498
498 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. them to act in conjunction with the Commissioners of the Counties, that Sept. 27th the Col: informed you wished them to go to. I am with perfect Esteem & respect Your Excellency's most ob't Sorv't." Sept. 27£h CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. "Dear Sir, Camp at I wrote to Capt: Bohannan this morning by Major Long, at g tQe request of the Governor, desiring him to send down all the Bayonets and Cartouch Boxes, he can muster, for the Militia, who are amazingly in want of both—Since which Genl: Knox has requested that all the 5}, 8 & 10 Inch Shells—24 ft and 18 ft ball & Large Grape Shot—1, 2 & 3 ft ball, belonging to this State, be immediately bro't down to this place; for which purpose I have directed Capt Bowne to wait on you for information where they lay and to beg your aid in fowarding them down with all expedition—I hope you can furnish Capt: Bowne with the Return of Ordnance, I requested some days ago. I am almost starved, paper money won't pass—Can you order the Comm'y to send mo 8 or 10 Gall's of Spirits—I can get none in Camp, for the interference of great men. I am, Dr Sir, Yours mo: ob't." Sept. 27th WM. RONALD TO COL: WM. DAVIES, acknowledging receipt of his let- ter in regard to furnishing supplies. Fowhatan Has received a communication from the Governor on the same subject, °' and is deeply pained and surprised to hear, his Excellency had been informed that Powhatan County "was exceedingly backward in sending out its proportion of supplies for the Army." He had consequently called a meeting of the people and adds "when as many of them assembled as could be expected at a short notice, and it is with much pleasure, I can assure you that they are ready & willing to deliver all or any part of their Crops which may be wanted for publick use & will Sett about it with the greatest alacrity—they unanimously agreed to carry one fourth of their crops of wheat immediately to the mills, & every man is willing to carry the same proportion from the mills when manu- factured, to the nearest navigation—this one fourth will be even more than the mills can take in, and if a larger quantity is then called for they will chearfully comply with every legal requisition; but I must, in justice to the people and to the publick, inform you, there has been a fault in some of the departments in not urging the people to this important Business sooner, and appointing some person or persons
Page 499
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. to superintend it, which is the reason the County has been accused of 1781. being backward—and the publick service kept out of supplies—the Sept. 27th gentleman who acted as Deputy Commissioner in this County last year, and who performed his Business, I think very cleverly, it seems proposed resigning for a considerable time past, and I have heard said, gave the Commission General notice of it repeatedly—No other person however was appointed to act, and the Deputy still went on with some business here, such as supplying Col: White's Regiment, Colo. Febigor's Corps &c &c; but I cannot learn (and I have been particular in my enquiries on this subject) that he took any steps to foward the manufacture of the crop of wheat, except desiring a young man who sometimes assisted him a little but I beleive never had made any considerable contracts, to give notice to the people, to get their wheat ready, and to speak to the millers to manufacture it—this young man, I find from his own confes- sion only spoke to a few obscure people, who always wait for men of some note to sett them an example, & he having no instructions to say on what terms, or in what manner they were to be paid for their wheat, they declined at that time having any thing to do with it." The Millers will not complain if their mills are impressed; but are willing, if money is furnished them to buy barrels, or if coopers are detailed from the militia to make them, to work for the public—He advises this course as the best, and will send foward all the flour on hand "in any kind of cask that can be procured"—Mr. Robt. Smith, a. very good man, goes to Richmond to apply for the place of Deputy Commissioner for the County. Every thing shall be done to aid him, should he get the office. Gov: NELSON TO THE COUNT DE GRASSE. Sept. 27th "Sir, I have the Honour to inform your Excellency that the Flags of Williamsb'g Truce which were destined to Charlestown & which I have been informed have been detained by your Excellency's Orders, were properly author- ized by Government to carry Tobacco thither, for the purpose of dis- charging the Debts contracted by our officers while in captivity there— but as political reasons in the present Conjuncture may render their departure highly improper for some time, I shall order them to return to their respective Stations." I have the honor to be with the most perfect Sentiments of Esteem and Respect."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 500
500 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Gov: NELSON TO COL: THOS: NEWTON. Sept. 27th "Sir, Williamsb'g I wrote to you on tho 19th in answer to yours of the 17th. Should you be able to collect more necessaries than are requisite for the men of the Fleet, you will please to send them up for the use of the Army— I must however recommend to your attention the ships which lie in James River, some of which as are high up as Warrasqueak Bay— I am &c." Sept. 27th Gov: NELSON TO MR. JOHN PIERCE. "Sir, Williamsb'g It is sometime since I heard from you—As the Emergencies of the Army are at this time very considerable, you will use your utmost Efforts in hurrying down Cattle & whatever other provisions you have collected for the use of the Army, observing that they are to be sent down on the north side of James river to obviate the inconveniences of transporting them over the river at this place— I am Sir &c &c. Sept. 27th GOV: NELSON TO HON'BLE D. JAMESON—LlETTT: GOVERNOR. "Sir, Williamsb'g Yours of the 22d did not reach me till yesterday. The Draft of Major Lintot, if I ever did know anything of it, has entirely escaped my memory. But in our present situation, it is certainly out of our Power to answer Drafts of this Nature & Amount—In a letter received yesterday, from Col: Davies, he has very justly represented the bad con- sequences of the present mode of settling Acc'ts in the Auditor's office. The People of the Country being obliged to receive Prices so inadequate to their Property & services, will undoubtedly decline serving the Public as far as it is in their Power to avoid it—My opinion is that they should should receive the Depreciation current at the Time of settling their accounts, & I look upon this as a Measure, which not only Justice, recommends, but Policy & even necessity. I would also advise that no particular appropriations be made of the Paper State money now remaining in the Treasury, but that all Demands be answered when they are made, as far as it will go—No Men can be enlisted for the Army so that it is unnecessary to retain the Money for this Purpose—I plainly see that this money is fast approaching to its End; & that our present Business is to look for a substitute—With good Management, I think we have now an Opportunity of effecting this, but it requires attention & Address, & for this Reason, I wish exceedingly that Mr. Ross would immediately come down to assist in this matter. The money I wrote
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 501
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 501 for some time ago, need not be sent down, as Paper Money has altogether 1781. ceased to be a Currency here. The whole Army is now putting into Sept. 27th motion & my next may communicate something important. I am convinced that my Presence here is of infinitely more Advantage to the state than it could be in Richmond, & I am also of opinion that the Deliberations of the Assembly on the most important Objects which will come before them, Defence & Finance, must take their Tone alto- gether from the Event of our present operations. I am &c., T. N. Gov: NELSON TO JAMES MAURY ESQR. "AGENT OF THE FLAG VESSELS Sept. 27th BOUND TO CHARLESTOWN." "Sir, The present situation of our affairs rendering it improper for the Williamsb'g vessels under your charge to proceed on their intended voyage, you will direct them to return to their respective Posts till further Orders.. I am &c." COL: WM. PRESTON TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 28th "Sir, Some time about the first of August, I was honoured with your Montgomery Excellency's appointment of going into the Western Country with others, to execute some public Business in that Quarter. * * * * I am under the highest obligations to your Excellency & the Hon'blo Board, for reposing so great a Trust in a Person so remote from the Seat of Government,- and who has not the Happiness of an Intimate acquaint- ance with a majority of the members: at the same time I must beg leave to decline the Execution of a Commission, that both my Infirm State of health and private affairs forbid my undertaking. I would with great deference beg leave to recommend to your Excel- lency my Friend & Relation Mr. Granville Smith as a proper Person, in my Room, to execute this Commission—As he has been frequently employed by your Hon'ble Board in public Business, I have not there- fore a Doubt but they are well acquainted with his Integrity and Abili- ties: for which Reason, I shall decline saying anything on these Heads." ****** I am, with the greatest Esteem, Your Excell'ys most ob't &c."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 502
502 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: WM. FLEMING TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 28th "Sir, Botetourt Co Your favour of the 5th Inst: I received the 25th, requiring my attendance in Council—This summer I have been much indisposed; at present am not clear of a rheumatic complaint that prevents mo giving that attendance in the Executive, which at this juncture may be neces- sary—In justice therefore to my Country, I resign my Seat in Council. I retire Sir, impressed with the highest esteem for you, and regard for the members of the honorable board, and have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellency's . most obedient humble Servant." Sept. 28th CHARLES DICK TO COL: DA VIES. "Sir, ****** Frederic'sb'g "I am sorry to find by a Letter from the Gov'r at W'msburg, of the 22d received this Day and originated, I trust, from the above causes which are now no more: I shall take it as a favor, you will set him right as soon as you can, and do me that Justice you shall think I ought to be, in his opinion, or with any other worthy, good Gentleman, whoso Esteem it would be a pleasure to have. As for all others, I value them but as the Ephemeres of a Summer Day, and so let them buz on. I shall do all in my Power to carry on the Work; but impossibilitys I cannot do: This Egyptian way will not last, Tho' the workmen depend much on me: There must be proper Stores laid in, Provisions, Walnut Plank for Gun-stocks, Iron, Steel are the principal articles, and these require even a good deal of Real money—And without which, little or nothing can be done: I cannot speak plainer—I intend no offence, and I wish the Service cou'd be done to the greatest Advan- tage. I hope you will not forget the protection for two Horses—the business can't be carried on without. and my Horse was carried off, said to be sent to Camp, which I doubt—It greives me to see some pampered Horses escape, & men here drawing Rations & Forage, when I and my poor Horses have neither, yet starve and serve the Country without protection. I remain with the greatest Esteem Sir, your most obed't H. Serv't." Sept. 28th COL: WM. DA VIES TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, War Office I received your Excellency's letter of the 24th and as the operations will soon commence against York, and there will be perhaps as much business to be done in my department, at Camp, as there will be in
Page 503
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. . 503 Richmond, I suppose I may get leave to adjourn to your neighborhood, 1781. as I hope every material for the seige required from the State, will have Sept. 28th been collected by the end of next week at the farthest— There is no oznaburgs for bunks, but if your Excellency intends them for cots, I suppose sail duck may answer better, and there is some of that which shall be sent down—I have informed Mr. Ross of the want of Shoes, and the whole that are hero, as well as a considerable number, which he has engaged in various parts of the Country, shall be sent down as soon as possible— I have delivered to the infantry and cavalry whatever supplies of cloathing they wanted or applied for, and we had to give them. There is however a great deficiency in over-alls, nor can it be remedied till Mr. Ross can make the necessary purchases. Coats and breeches can be had without buttons, but perhaps hooks and eyes may do. I have just received your Excellency's favor of the 27th, and shall pay particular attention to your instructions. I assure you of my con- stant exertions to promote the interest of the troops, tho' the great length of time which Mr. Armstead has been absent has thrown a large proportion of his business very improperly upon my hands. At this moment, while applications are making for cloathing, there are Officers of our line who have got a considerable quantity of cloth by them, the property of the public, which they hold up from their men, under the pretence of its being due to them for former deficiencies; for my part I would not care what they received them for, so the men could get them when they were wanting—I think such officers should be compelled to give up their cloth to the public factory, to be made up into cloaths and given out to the men as they ought to be. From the experience I have had, I am confident that without great care, there will always be abuses of this Kind—I hope to be able to send down a thousand pair of shoes— It is not expected, I presume, that the French will have them for nothing. I have therefore desired Mr. Hay to send them to Mr. Nichol- son at Williamsburg, to be subjected to tho orders of Mr. Ross, who is going down on public business, and will settle tho price and terms him- . self—The Auditors have been at length prevailed on to alter their opinion and practice, respecting certificates—But from various letters which I have received, it appears that the hard money of the French, will engross the supplies and leave our own troops to suffer. I have laid the matter before tho Council, and they have taken steps to remedy the ill consequences. It would be of great advantage could the pur- chases be made jointly. Tho hard money of the one would give credit to the other, as most people will readily receive certificates for one half, perhaps two thirds of their provisions, if they could have the remainder in hard money. I have the honor to be, with greatest respect Your Excellency's very hble Servant."
Page 504
504 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JNO: SWANN TO COL: DA VIES, in reply respecting the "return" required Sept. 28th of the Specific grain and Tobacco Tax of the County. Powhatan Mr. Arthur Moseley and himself had acted as Commissioners during °' the past year, and had settled their accounts at the required time, by sending a "Return" down by Capt: Turpin, with the Tobacco Notes received—In settling the Tithes of those who failed to pay their grain tax, fifteen pounds pr: bushel for wheat was allowed as the highest price given for wheat "below the Falls of James River." Sept. 28th PHILIP SANSUM, LIEUT: COMMD'G TO , claiming rank as Captain, having under the new arrangement, served as Lieut: Commanding, since the "fall of Capt. Lawson in Juno 1780. High Hills He should not press this matter, but thinks it "Excessive hard after bantee doing Capt'ns duty all this Campaigne should now be obliged to do that of subalterns"—concludes—"I have no news to write you—what few of us remain in the field are exceeding harty & well, but Damn'd Ragged & poor, & how we are to hide our nakedness six weeks hence, I suppose Providence is to determine—the Officers I do assure you, in general are in Distress—some of their feelings has been upon the rack, they being obliged to receive Charity at the Hands of a few Gentlemen who had a shirt or two spare, tho' Strangers to them." I am Sir, with Esteem Yr: most ob't Servant." Sept. 29th J. BANISTER TO Gov: NELSON. "Dear Sir, Dinwiddie In compliance with your Orders to impress horses here, I B immediately convened the Captains of the County, and directed them to collect in three days two Artillery horses out of each company—have appointed persons to value them &c." * * * "This will be another Tax of 32 horses upon a County that has been furnishing their Friends two years & a half, & been plundered by the Enemy for near a year." In as much as he knows ho can do more with the people, than by the exercise of force, and as he will be of more ser- vice at home for the present, ho will not be at the Assembly for some time—Requests, that when the garrison at York shall fall, the Governor will use his influence, "in behalf of those whose negroes have been stolen from them & not let them be involved in the plunder of the Town." ;
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 505
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 505 COL: JAS: HENDBICKS TO Gov: NELSON, expressing great anxiety and 1781. pain at the report of such want of provisions at Camp. 8ept- 29th He has been for weeks calling upon the Commissioners in his vicinity, Alexandria but his success has not been equal to his wishes, tho' up to his expecta- tions—Has not a barrel of flour at Alexandria, having sent all, about seven hundred, to Camp—Continues "I have called on tho County Com- missioners as far back as Hampshire, in tho most earncst terms to send down their flour to this place—I have even told them I will protect all those wagons bringing flour from impressments, but all will not do." ***** "There is no spirits to be procured in this place, nor Salt, except forty or fifty bushels, which I have ordered the Commissary to foward imme- diately. You'l excuse me for telling you that this mode of procuring Provisions will not do—a County Commissioner's Sallary is four Hhds: of Tobacco pr: An: they will not exert themselves—to suppose that Public Virtue will direct them is Ideal—all the Counties above me is full of riders purchasing for the French Army—these mens' gold and silver hath more powerful arguments than all our Commissioners prom- ises, even with the addition of our millions of spoil'd Paper—I have call'd on Commissioners, County Lieutenants, Magistrates and others of my acquaintance and I find them all fond to oblige the Public, but fonder to serve their own private interests—I know you will say, this is not a time to talk in this strain—I only tell you the behaviour of the People you have to depend on, and if my information is to be depended on there is some of our richest counties in tho Northern Neck hath furnish'd hardly one beef in the present emergency—Be assured Sir, that my exertions and influence by night and day shall be used in sending down every supply for the army, that comes within my knowledge." BRIO: GENL: Ro: LAWSON TO Gov: NELSON. Sept. 29th "Sir, In consequence of your Excellency's Instructions to me, I set out Pr. Edward from Williamsburg on Saturday Evening and reach'd this County tho ^°' Monday Evening following. On my way through Powhatan & Cumber- land, I found on enquiry, that no steps had been taken that was likely to produce supplies of provisions for the Army, with that dispatch which the situation of our Affairs so strongly demands—nor were any of the manufacturing mills engaged in preparing Flour for the use of the Army—On the contrary, the people generally appeared to be unin- formed of our real distress for the want of provisions—Tho mills were immediately set to work—waggons, ox-carts & every kind of carriage 64
Page 506
506 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. that could carry wheat to the mills or transport Flour from thence to Sept. 29th the places on the water (from whence it may be easily conveyed to the Army) were with all the expedition the circumstances of the case would admit of taken for the purpose—Altho' the people are well inclin'd to assist the Army with provisions, yet from the exceeding & unusual unhealthiness in these parts, they cannot carry on the work with that vigor & execution, which their readiness to engage in it, would other- wise have ensur'd—An infectious & malignant fever, which has carried off many of the Inhabitants, prevails greatly in this County especially: which unfortunate circumstance, added to that of so many of the militia's being called out, contributes to retard in a great degree the quick execution of the undertaking. However, notwithstanding this, I have already put to work, seven very valuable manufacturing mills— Carts &c are carrying wheat to the mills & Coopers are omploy'd to set up casks to pack up the flour, of which there is a great scarcity"— Suggests that all the coopers, in the militia from Amelia, Powhatan, Cumberland, P. Edward and Buckingham be sent up at once, and most of the wagons belonging to the South Side be dispatched to haul flour down to the Army—From the large quantity of Beef already gone, and now on the way from that side of the River, ho infers the Army will no longer suffer on this head—From the steps he has already taken, wagons are in motion with flour towards Manchester & Petersburg, at which places active men should be sent to superintend the unloading these wagons and loading the vessels. Concludes— "I have received a letter from Major Allen, who is on the South Side of the River, informing mo that Colo. Burwell has taken the command of the militia there; and regardless of the arrangements made by me, with the express approbation of your Excellency, is ta'king such steps as to derange my command, & disgust these officers, who have been appointed to command, by the Executive, have been some time in the field & have thereby added Experience to confessed bravery—This I fear'd would be the case, unless something was done to prevent the mili- tia Field Officers from taking command, when the number of men they brought into the Field from their respective Counties, did not justify under the Law, such a step. If I am rightly inform'd, Colo. Burwell is County Lieut: of Mecklenburg, and I am confident has not the whole force of his militia down. So with Colo. Stokes from Lunenburg, who brought not a Majors command with him. I beg your Excellency's attention to those points, as it is impossible I can do that justice to the service I wish, unless my arragements, & orders to my Officers are sup- ported—I have no objection to Colo. Burwell—ho may possess, for aught I know every talent that can make him great and serviceable in a mili- tary character—I wish only to preserve the^ystem which has been long adopted & pursu'd with success to the militia. I shall return about the
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 507
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 507 middle of next week. I beg your Excellency to do me the honor of 1781. informing me by the Express, the situation of our army & the news. Sept. 29th I have the honor to be with every senti- ment of respect Sir, yr: Excellency's mo: obt. Servt." CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: WM. DA VIES. Sept. 29th "Dear Sir, Your favor of the 24th reached me yesterday pr: Express, Williamsb'g in camp near York, whither I had marched w'th the Troops, and have returned here to day in order to arrange a few matters and shall return back again Tomorrow." * * * * "A numerous train of militia are now in camp destitute of ammunition & no more to - be borrowed from the Continent, and the Governor's uneasiness on the occasion, having none in view from our own Labora- tory, adds to my distress, with the tardy movements of the arms from Fauquier Co. House; no more of which have arrived since those with Colo. Barbour, whose conduct respecting his interference w'th the arms I explained to you in my letter by Mr. Sherrar—a number more militia wopld be in the Field, and don't think it would be amiss, to make sure work, had we Arms & Provisions for them. I observe the return of arms &c you did me the honor to enclose & the irregular manner with which they have been Issued. I think it remains with you or the Executive to put a positive negative upon such proceedings in future, and would esteem it a favor, if you will advise me how I shall charge them. I understand there is an act of assembly relative to collecting the whole of the arms into magazines. I have spoken to the Governor upon the subject, who tells me it is contrary to his wishes, that this should be the case; ho thinks (as I do) that a certain proportion ought to be allotted to each County, bounded by some parallel line through the Country & the Lieu- tenants of these Counties made liable under the severest penalty for the good order or condition of these arms &c—upon all occasions, in having them fit for service, or to punish the delinquents for their negligence or breach of Orders with the utmost rigour, as is done to the northwd: Should this plan be adopted, and you inform me what proportion each County has at present (as I have not their returns) I can compleat their quotas, take receipts, & make the regular charge with great convenience from the Field—I must request that you will settle upon some mode or other, and direct me accordingly, that I may give the necessary orders to my conductors who are detach'd, for Instance in Gloucester, from whence I received the inclosed return yesterday." * * * * "A supply of arms having arrived from the northwd. Colonel Gaskins is furnish'd with better arms than
Page 508
508 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. those he formerly drew, consequently those he was possest of are Sept. 29th return'd in, w'ch I think I can procure for the State—they are of an inferior kind, tho' have Bayonets—Col: Dabney would be glad of them, therefore shall endeavour to get them." * * * * * * * "I think If I had pow- der and lead sufficient down here, I could have cartridges sufficient for our militia made immediately. General Knox is very anxious for Capt Bowne's successful return & wishes much for 2 & 3 lb Balls, altho' they were not mention'd in the Governor's Order— Whole army Now tho ncws—The whole Army march'd yesterday morning from ther28t6h °n this, for York> or the Enemies' lines, in the following order—The Con- from Wil- tinental & Militia Troops in the right collumn, & the French in the fo*"York8 -k^—about i past 3-o-clock each Collumn appear'd before the Enemies out-posts; that of our right, where I was, not more than a mile from their out works on Pigeon hill, cover'd by a strong morass; upon our first approach, they showed great consternation. we advanced ncar the morass & after a little reconoitering gave them a few cannon shot w'ch soon dispers'd them. a bridge was immediately made & our collumn pass'd the Morass, all except the Militia, and they lay upon their arms all night, occupying the ground their picquet possest an hour before, in full view of their Works at Pigeon hill & the lower side or end of the Town— This morning the Collumn advanced, the militia cross the morass, and stretch'd the line arround them entire, the left of the French line being bound'd by tho River above, and the right of the American in like manner by the same below—nothing more than reconoitering took place for some (time) after this, the enemy keeping up a pretty severe can- nonade at the parties, more especially at his Excell'y Genl: Washing- ton's suit who approach'd their works very near, tho' no damage was done, except one soldier's foot shot off by a cannon Ball—This evening I am told by a person who left Camp since I did, that the whole line had moved down in to their works. our Riflemen went up so near as to kill ab't Eight of the Enemy in their works—A Bridge is making to cross the Morass opposite Pigeon hill, which place I conjecture will be taken by storm, within a few days—it is a very commanding post, and must be possest by us, when I think the business will be half done, tho' tis said their works are amazing strong in Town. that may be and yet stand 70 shells a minute, w'ch Genl: Duportail promises to give them—Excuse this scrall—I'll give you a more correct one another time with better accounts. I am D'r Sir, with perfect Esteem, your Mo: Ob't Servt." "P. S. Pray inform me, what chance there is for Cartridges from the State Laboratory."
Page 509
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 509 CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO COL: DAVIES—in reply. 1781. Sept. 29th No supplies of clothing have come to hand, and the tailors all idle for Albemarle want of materials—The linnen all made up into soldiers' shirts, and the Barracks oznaburgs into over-alls—The Sorgett will not do for stable-jackets or over-alls, but for facings for Soldiers' Coats—Ho wishes Genl: Spots- wood would hurry up the material for equipping his Legion, before the cloth from Philadelphia arrives, & expected by Mr. Ross—"Hooks & Eyes shall be put on the Soldier's Coats, but they will cut a most horrid appearance without buttons—lead buttons will answer better than none "—If there was a quantity of lead sent he can have buttons made for the coats & vests—The Hat factory must stop—ho will send the men back to Col: Dabney, as ordered—Mr. Marks cannot supply him with any leather for boot-legs, which he regrets, in as much as he could employ the numerous shoe-makers engaged—Col: White should have paid more respect to the truth, than to have stated that he had received a certificate from himself, that his cavalry could have been supplied much sooner, had he (Col: Davies) given proper orders. -, Expressing great surprise at hearing in different Sept. 29th L. MOSBY TO — quarters, that the people of that county are reported as " backward and unwilling to supply the Army." On the contrary, they have "as true a sense of the necessity of sup- plying the Army, as perhaps any on the Continent"—He will vouch for "them that they will afford every assistance in their power" and if the millers could receive the wheat, if necessary "40 or 50 Thousand Bush. might be gott from the County." Apprehends difficulty in procuring transportation for the wheat to the mills, and suggests that the Government should send up a few wagons for this purpose. Powhatan Co. COL: JOHN CROPPER TO COL: DAVIES. "Sir, I herewith send you the Reverend John Lyon, John Custis, Wil- liam Garrison, Solomon Bunting, George Gibson, Wm. Bell, Stephen Taylor & Robt. Spiers, prisoners: the first is sent to his Excellency the Governor agreeable to his order,—the three next were principal opposors of the draft, the last four condemned soldiers for the war—Custis, Gar- rison & Bunting are men of families, and of capital estates—they now seem sincerely sorry for what they have done, and tell me they are willing to do anything, provided government should be so indulgent as to permit them to return to & continue with their families. Garrison Sept. 30th Accomack Co.
Page 510
510 CALENDAR OF,STATE PAPERS. 1781. appears to be thoroughly penitent, and in my humble opinion might Sept. 30th hereafter become a good member of society: it would be agreeable to me, and might have a good effect, after humbling them, making them find a good soldier each, & taking whatever else government saw proper, for them to return to their families"— * * * *' "By the vessell in which these prisoners come, I have sent to the Com- missary General a thousand gallons of Rum & one tierce of Port wine for the use of the Army & in a short time they may expect much more." Encloses certificate strongly 'recommending the Rev: John Lyon to Executive clemency, with request that he be allowed to return "to his Family to settle his private business in this County." Signcd by Geo: Corbin, Levin Joynes, Edm'd Custis, and Geo: Parker—adding himself "Since his confinement he has often expressed to me his desire & inten- tion of becoming a good citizen shou'd he be indulged with any degree of liberty, and of wishing to spend the remains of his life with people of known attachment to the Independancy of America." Sept. 30th MARSTON CLAY TO THE GOVERNOR. Halifax Co. He has been appointed Commissioner for this County, and has been required to call upon the inhabitants for one tenth of their beeves, for the use of the Army. They have suffered so much by taking certificates from the officers of the Southern Army, and getting no assurance that such certificates were genuine, or the authority by which they were given, reliable, that it is out of his power to collect any supplies—Mr. Geo: Watkins, a Delegate from the County, has informed the people that there is no Law requiring them to furnish "a tenth beef," and he has "forewarned any Person from taking any beef from him" by such authority—Special authority from the Executive will be necessary before he can execute his commission. Sept. 30th LEWIS BURWELL, COL: COMDO. TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Williamsb'g I marched with the Mecklenburg and Lunenburg Militia as soon as I received your Excellency's orders, but the wind being high & none but raw men to manage the boats, we could not get over 'till late last night. The men will be in Town this morning, and Major Walker waits on you to know where we are to be armed, as we have not above Twenty Guns, & they but indifferent—you will please to direct where we are to cross York River, that we may avoid falling into the enemy's hands. The militia of these two counties do not make a command for all the Field Officers that are down from there, there being two Colonels and two Majors—Major Walker will furnish you with a return & your Excellency will be pleased to direct, if either of us is to return home, who it shall be. I am with respect, your Excellency's most obt. &c."
Page 511
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 511 COL:GEO: COBBIN TO Gov: NELSON. 1781. "Dear Sir, Sept. 30th * * * * "The military stores of the two Gallies, now on hand, are very incon- Onancock siderable, except their large Guns, which would not sell now to advan- tage, nor should I suppose Government would wish to part with them, being 12 and 18 lb cannon. The residue, consisting chiefly of 1—4 lb cannon, 3 howitzers, and 2 wall pieces, are now on board the barge Ranter, sent to your shore with a load of Rum and Brandy for the State. If it is the desire of Government to dispose of these military stores on board the Barge, the owners would be glad to purchase, or if Govern- ment would rather purchase the Barge and the residue of her military stores, being 1—6 lb cannon, and 1 swivel-gun, the owners will have no objection to sell—public good being their first object, they will chearfully adopt whatever Government shall direct—It gives me much satisfaction to find that your Ideas of our Danger and defence on this shore, per- fectly agree with mine. ^While the Enemy were in possession of our defenceless sea and bay coast of one hundred miles in extent, plundering and burning, and the disaffected amongst us privately, and at length publicly joined their aid to destroy our persons and property, our situa- -tion, with great propriety might be called a bad onej but bad as it might be, I never wished assistance from Government, which might be. preju- dicial to the public good—I cordially join you in rejoicing in the happy prospect now before us, this will more than reward us for all our past sufferings great as they have been"— * * * * Agreeable to your request Col: Cropper has sent over the Parson— he seems much revived since receiving some information that the Gov- ernor & Council will probably not confine him: I expect the present great change in our affairs will soon work a reformation in the Parson, • and he will become a strong advocate for American Independance; he is attended with (John Custis, Wm. Garrison and Solomon Bunting & three others of his flock and of the same political belief with himself— They have shown strong marks of repentance for having opposed the late Draft in our County; but whether this is founded on a conviction _ that they have sined against their Country; or on the arrival of the ( fleet of our generous Ally, I will not pretend to judge—however, bad ~aT'th"oy'1iro, I tope their future conduct may attone for their offence. and it would afford me real pleasure to see them restored to their fami- lies, who are innocent sufferers, after having done proper penance, and furnished an able bodied soldier in their stead—If they should deserve mercy, I am convinced that Government will be forward to extend it— Their restoration upon the above terms, or any other not prejudicial to the public good, would I hope prevent any private malice which these unhappy people and their friends may have against those whom they
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 512
512 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. suppose instrumental in their punishment. And might be a means of Sept. 30th restoring a general quiet to this Country. The particular attention shewn me in writing by every opportunity, I cannot sufficiently acknowledge, but be assured as long as paper, pen and Ink endure, shall continue to attempt the acknowledgements due from, Sir, Your affectionate friend." Sept. 30th CAPT: ELIEZER CALLENDER TO Gov: NELSON. Frederic'sb'g -Acknowledging receipt of his orders, and shall be happy to render his country and service in his power—would have preferred to operate on the Rappahannock—He will sot out for Wmsburg at once—so as to go up the river with the vessels. He has just sent off a vessel with "six hundred bushels of salt, 48 bbls of flour and two hhds: whiskie"—She will fill up at Port Royal, & from thence go to York River or BurwilFs Ferry. Sept. 30th MESSRS: WADSWORTH & CARTER TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Williamsb'g In consequence of the Conversation we had yesterday with your Excellency, we applied this morning, agreeable to your desire, to Mr. Livingston for Beef, for the service of the French Army, and at the Same Time requested him to inform us what supplies he could deliver, and what assurance he could give us of the necessary supplies for the Army; he replied that he could give us no assurance, but that as fast as he received them from the Commissary ho should deliver them to us, on conversing with him he acquainted us that he did not consider himself as a State Agent, but as employed by the French—As we are appointed sole Agents by the French Army, it is by no means necessary to have a middle man to transact Business between the State and us; we therefore request your Excellency to inform us who is the agent of the State from whom we are to receive supplies, and who will give us the nccessary Information of what quantity of cattle and other articles he can deliver on account of the State, that we may be enabled to give our account to M. do Tarle, the Intendant of the French army (who demands it of us) what supplies he can depend on for his Service. At this moment we have no certainty of the Beef necessary for the Service to-morrow. We have the Honor to be, with great Respect Your Excellency's Most obedient and most hbl Servants."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 513
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 513 GENL: NELSON TO HONBLE. DAVID JAMESON. 1781. "Sir, October 1st I received your letter enclosing extracts relative to the French Before York Agents. The consequences of such proceedings I have long foreseen, and have laboured to guard against, by supplying the combined armies with public provisions, forage &c. I have met with much difficulty and vexation in the management of this matter, arising partly from the machinations of their agents, partly from the unwillingness of the people to assist Government, from which, former treatment gives them, per- haps too little reason to expect justice, and partly from the desire of handling Gold, which has too often been found to prevail over every other consideration. I have been daily in expectation of Mr. Ross' assistance, which unless I speedily receive, I am afraid we shall lose the chance that offers, of placing our finances in a respectable situation. Our progress hero has been more considerable for the time, than could have been expected, and attended with loss opposition and loss—Yesterday morning it was discovered that the Enemy had evacuated their out posts at Moores Mill, Pigeon Quarter, and every other place beyond the creek except at Nelson's farm. Our troops are to day working on the grounds they relinquished. The French took possession of Pigeon hill. There have been two men killed and six wounded. A Sheriff's Commission for Westwood Armstcd Esquire, of Elizabeth City is wanting, which you will be pleased to enclose to me. I am Sir, Yr: mo: ob: Servant." THOS: ANDERSON, DEP: COM. TO COL: DA VIES. October 1st A few wagons are fitting out in the county, for the purpose of procur- Buckingham ing salt for the use of the inhabitants, so that they may preserve meat ®°' for their families. Many of these have been without meat for some time, on account of "the pressing demand for Bacon to furnish Genl: Greene's Army," and the quantity they have given up to him. This they did, not in consideration of the price, "but for the regard they had to their Fellow Soldiers' suffering in the Field"—They have hoped to be able to kill Beef to supply the place of Bacon, but are disappointed. Many are reduced to want; others of the most respectable families have bread and milk or chickens.—They deem it a great hardship, that they cannot use their wagons to procure salt, for fear of impressment; and unless Permits are granted a few, for this purpose, "matters will be car- ried to extremity". "Already, "the lives of the Press Masters" have been threatened—He therefore urges, that authority be given for a few wagons to pass to the French Fleet or to Baltimore for this purpose. 66
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 514
514 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Francis Tomkies Commr: makes report, that having received no act October 1st of Assembly since 1780, he has been ignorant of the requirements of the Gloucester Law in regard to the Specific Tax—All the grain collected in the County has been delivered to Thomas Harwood Dep: Q. Master, for the Army. October 1st COL: S. TEMPLE TO Gov: NELSON. Caroline Co. Capt: Sutton will deliver a number of horses procured, under instruc- tions of 17th ult.—He had just returned from camp in Gloucester, and should never go down again, but that Mr. Richd. Sq: Taylor of King Wm. County insists upon his giving aid in procuring provisions for the Army. Accordingly he is about to set out, for Hanover, Louisa, Flu- vanna, Albemarle, and perhaps across James River, taking Goochland on his return. Ardently hopes the difficulties at Camp may soon be removed, as the resources of the State are ample, if "effectual measures are pursued for obtaining them." October 1st LT: COL: SAML: VARNE TO Gov: NELSON applying for Supply of arms for a reinforcement of militia from Augusta Co—and for camp kettles. Camp 4 miles They have a small supply of powder but no lead—The Rockbridge , militia under Capt: Campbell have joined him, and are also in want of these articles. October 1st David Anderson Jur: informs the Governor he has impressed only Hanover Co. seven horses, since the receipt of his orders, which he now sends—The people being determined to secrete their best horses, and his having to use every exertion in collecting wheat for the mills, must be his apology for sending so few. Hearing the army was suffering for provisions, he will use every effort to get wheat ground &c. October 1st Capt: John Pryor, has the pleasure to inform Governor Nelson, that a Camp before late supply of "ammunition from the northward" will enable him to York furnish the militia: he thinks he will also be able to procure a few ammunition wagons.
Page 515
CALENDAfi OF STATE PAPERS. 515 MARTIN COCKBURN AND RICH'D CHICHESTER, COMMRS. TO COL: DAVIES, 1781. accounting for the collection and disposal of the Specific Tax of that County. October lst They have receipts for all delivered—except the Tobacco, now Fairfax Co. prized up and ready for delivery, and some grain furnished the Marquis de la Fayette's Troops on their march throug Colehester. The delin- quents who neglected to pay their Tax have been charged for each Titheable " the highest cash price for a Bushel of wheat," estimated at Alexandria, 21st May last at £22. Virginia currency pr: bushel. They cannot with certainty give the number of titheables upon which tax has been paid, but they received from the Clerk's office 2763, "from which is to be deducted the disabled & infirm negroes," not subject to the pay- ment of the "specific tax," altho' liable to the "Parish & County Levy." Col: Anthy: White applies to Gov: Nelson to be allowed to take a October 1st number of horses impressed by Col: Temple, in place of the one hundred Ruffln's he has furnished the French Troops, Genl: & Field Officers, and on Ferry account of which many of his men are dismounted. D. C. STOKES OF LUNENBURO TO Gov: NELSON. October 1st "Sir, Tis neither easy nor proper for me to determine, whether it was College with most surprise, mortification, or another principle less modest in me amp to mention, that I last night read your Excellency's instruction to Coll: Burwell, by which it appears that I am the only Field Officer of Militia, commanded to leave the service; whilst others inferior to me in rank and seniority are retained—This distinction, Sir, injurious as it is to the feel- ings of a man of honor; is still hightened, by having occurred at the only period when the militia were flattered with the prospect of doing anything, either beneficial to their country, or honorable to themselves— If thus, the militia are to be collected like droves of cattle for markett, Sir, it is to be feared they will in future exceed all their former unruly licentiousness; and if the constant reward of officers for spending their fortunes in training the militia at home, collecting them for service, pro- viding for their wants and marching them to the different posts where their assistance is required, is that of being dishonorably discharged within sight of the field of action, it is certain no man of sense or influ- ence, will ever undertake to be a County drudge, or laiborer in the field, to plant those laurells, which he will forever be forbidden to gather. If in some Counties there are minions of Power, and in others, wretches mean enough to bow down before such imaginary godheads: an honest
Page 516
516 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. people will soon learn to detest the one, as much as an honest heart will October 1st always despise the other. I am Sir, as much above the weakness of fearing to offend, as I am above the baseness of desiring to flatter, or the remotest wish to gain myself a Temporary influence by the ridicu- lous daubings of fawning and adulation—Whilst I am permitted to think myself the citizen of a free State, I will always speak the language of a free man; and when my liberty is invaded I will always dare to complain. However small the number, or insignificant the men I have brought out, they are half the militia of a County entitled to representation: they are men willing to follow me into the field, or any where else: they are • men I know I can control (which is what can seldom be said of militia) and they are men who I flatter myself, have by long experience, acquired a confidence in me not easy to be obliterated—I have this once deceived them, by bringing them out with the Idea of remaining under my com- mand, which is not permitted me to perform. It must be my care to make them no more soothing promises under the faith of Government; and perhaps some person more desirous of ingratiating himself by such means, may as successfully undertake to execute designs of like nature for the future—I shall return home and endeavour to comfort the families of these poor men whom I have thus involuntarily deluded ever steady to the cause of liberty & the support of Government upon the true Principles of the Constitution. And have the honor to be with the highest Esteem' & veneration, Your Excellency's most obt Hble Servt." DAVID Ross TO COL: DA VIES. October 1st Thanks him for the perusal of Col: Lee's letters—The State may be Richmond wise to purchase some of the enemy's vessels "on the Reduction of York"; but he doubts whether sailors can be kept to man cruizing ves- sels in the Bay—The Colonel's hints how'er may be improved upon. October 1st EPH: ELAINE, C. GENL: TO COL: JOHN CROPPER, Accomac. Old Point For want of a fair wind, he cannot cross to Cherry-Stone, but will Comfort proceed to "Oxford Landing upon Choptank River" hereafter. Both armies assembled before York Town, much in want of provisions—He will therefore collect all he can—the beef cattle are to be Killed and Salted in bulk and sent over at once. Encloses a note from Gov: Nelson, recommending him to the consid- eration of Col: Cropper—being "Commissary Genl: of Purchases" for the Army. also, calling attention to the fact that "Refugees who accom- panied Lord Cornwallis to York are making their escape across the Bay." Ho will therefore strictly watch all persons landing on that shore.
Page 517
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 517 BENJ: DAY TO Gov: NELSON. 1781. "Sir, October 1st "The chain of Expresses is establish'd to the Brick-House. Mr. Williamsb'g Lyon waits on you, and will perform the duty of an Express at your camp: he is acquainted in the neighbourhood of York and is much to be depended on." MAJOR JOHN TAYLOR TO HON: DAVID JAMESON. October 2d The Genl: Assembly having authorized the Executive to appoint an Richmond agent to present to the State of N. Carolina the claims of certain per- sons in Virginia to lands formerly in the latter, but now found to be in the former State and as he is particularly interested, recommends the selection of the Hon. Mr. Hardie, now in the Council, for the place. M. DE TARLK TO Gov: NELSON. October 2d Informing him, that "3000 Rations of Indian Corn, consisting of 4 Williamsb'g Quarts each, and the like number of Rations of Corn Blades, consisting of fifteen pounds each, are necessary for the daily subsistence of the Horses in the French Army," and requesting to be informed at once whether this supply can be furnished. James McAlister, informs Col: Hendricks, "there is a great quantity October 2d of wheat & flour" in that county left over from the year before, but Martinsburg nearly all spoiled—He had collected Teams to haul it to Alexandria, but they were impressed, ho was superceded in his office, and altho' he had laid the matter before the Council in July last, had heard nothing of his complaint. He is therefore not to blame. CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: W. DAVIES. October 2d The "Return" of States' Ordnance received—but is not accurate. Camp before The State has on hand now seventy one barrels of Powder—Has just Yorlt Town learned, that "the Enemy has 3 of our 13-In: mortars & 1. 16 Inch do:, tho' as they have no shells we shan't suffer much by them." Continues, "If we reduce York, I think I shall claim them for the State, with every other article of Mil: Stores that appears to be State property—In the present situation of affairs I don't think we can make a permanent charge against the Counties that are call'd into actual ser- vice, for arms &c wh. they were formerly possess'd of, as the property is
Page 518
518 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. eternally transferring in the Field, by those who relieve them, & in spite October 2d of all I can do, I cannot preserve regularity, thro' the interference of Brigade Q. Masters, one of which I have endeavored to brake. he appear'd to be happy had I succeeded. he was acquitted, altho' it was for throwing upwards of 100 arms down in an. Old Field uncovered, where they lay 24 hours in a rain wh. nearly ruin'd the whole of them— I have now a Conductor to each Brigade, and am determined that no Q. M. shall be concern'd with mil: stores in future." * * * * "I have received no files as yet, and suffering much for want of them. I have near 400 damag'd arms now on hand—these militia are fine "On Sunday Last the Enemy evacuated all their out-posts, wh. we immediately took possession of, & from which we are making our approaches, tho' under an infernal Hot Cannonaid—upwards of 2000 Balls have been fir'd at us to day—for want of wind sufficient the French ships have not yet come up the River. in a day or two our first parralel will be form'd, by which time, I hope our heavy Cannon will be ready to play on them—as yet we have not return'd them a single shot. Col: Scammel* was unfortunately wounded and made prisoner on Sunday as he was going the rounds as Officer of the Day, 'tis said his wound is very dangerous: About 10 kill'd and wounded make the whole of our loss as yet. The Enemy have pull'd down almost every Wooden House in Town & I suppose we shall knock down every Brick one, so that the Town between us will be demolish'd entirely. The Old Secretary! stands his ground as yet. Doct: Griffin is come out on parole—Only furnish us with provisions and all will go well—It is a glorious sight & well worth seeing If you had time to ride down. I am, Dr Sir, with great Regard & Esteem Your most obt. Servt." October 2d CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO -, enclosing "Return " of clothing, received from the different Counties in the S.tate. "The inconsidorableness of it, surely will draw a blush from our Wise body when laid before them—in my opinion it ought to do it, when they consider in what manner that very essential law has been abused by some of the Counties"—Indeed all ho has received "would reflect dis- credit on any person that could think of giving it to a poor soldier"— The Commissary at tho Post has received orders to reduce the Artificer's Rations "to 1 lb of Beef & 1 do: of Indian meal pr: day." Men cannot work on so small an allowance, and he shall be obliged to discharge these men, having contracted with them for full allowances—concludes "The Commissioner of this county has treated this post most rascally Albemarle Barracks *Died soon after at Wmsburg. fGen: Nelson's Uncle.
Page 519
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 519 in bis supplies—Always sending to it the worst beef he can possibly get & often no salt. I wish I had him as an Artificer at this place for six months to punish him for his exceeding neglect—My dear Sir, cant you fall on some way to procure Captain Tebbs, who is one of my ass'ts, part of his pay—he is distressed much for the want of it, as we are obliged to purchase everything we make use of, at a very big price from the country people; except a little poor Beef & Indian meal, which we draw from our Sweet scented Commrs 1 lb of each pr: day—I am realy afraid we shall got the ague and fever here, for the want of a little strong drink to dispel the heavy Foggs which frequently rise at this season of the year from the Valleys of the Mountains—Should it be in your power to prevent that disagreeable complaint, pray do it, and believe me to be with the greatest regard, Yr: ob Servant." 1781. October 2d Blue Cloth White do: Green do: Red do: GENL: A. SPOTSWOOD TO COL: DAVIES. He should have replied to his of the 22d ult: sooner, but has been "exceeding week & low" from severe illness. The clothing expected from the North, is as follows yards 840 650 400 400—and he prefers to wait for it, "rather than take up with serge, which in general, is of bad quality"—The time for calling out the Legion is postponed until 26th Oct:, for reasons to be made known hereafter. For swords bis only "dependance is on old Hunter"—From him also, he expects "spurs, Bridle-bitts & currycombs"—From Simpson, "hol- sters, pads, Portmanteaus, halters & Strapps." Concludes "I wish the Jacketts to be made rather larger in the sleeve, from the elbow downwards, and instead of a round Cuff, to be a slashed one, with three buttons on each Cuff. The Blue and white cloth com- ing on, will, I believe cloth what infantry we have raised with two Jackets each; the cavalry must have the green." * * * I am dr. Sir, with great regard." October 2d CHAS. STEWART, COM: GENL: OF ISSUES, TO JNO: ROBERTSON, Co. October 2d ISSUES STATE OF VA. "In pursuance of a resolution of Congress, dated June 10th, 1777, I do hereby appoint you, John Robertson Esquire, Superintendant Com- missary of issues for the State of Virginia. Camp
Page 520
520 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. You will therefore forthwith enter on the duties of that office, which October 2d from your experience and good character, I am convinced, you will faithfully execute. Thomas Jones, Esquire, deputy commissary genl:, will give you any precedents for returns, you may want; copies of which you will foward to those respective assistants in your district, which have not been furnished—You will obtain from each of them regular monthly returns of the provisions, and other stores that they receive and issue, with those on hand on the close of each month, from which you will form one general monthly return; one copy of which foward to the board of War of this State, and two foward to mo, one of (which) direct for His Excellency Genl: Washington. There being no proper deputy commissary General of hides for this State, his excellency, the commander in cheif, by his instructions to Colo. Blaine and myself, directed that we should appoint proper persons to superintend that business, and you are hereby appointed to that duty. As the hides and tallow are two very essential articles, you will have them taken the utmost care of—When hides and tallow cannot be moved to proper places of deposite, they must be disposed of for the highest prices that can be had, and the value accounted for. See to make this evidently clear. the monthly returns of the assistants should particu- larly set forth the number of cattle Killed, the weight of the hides and tallow, and amount of money it sold for. This you will demand & insist on, as an indispensible part of the duty of each assistant, & that they charged themselves with the amount, and also with the amount of all damaged provisions which may be sold: too much neglect has arisen in these things, and must in future be avoided. Every post being a considerable addition of expense to the public, I beg you will establish none but those essentially necessary, and consult the Executive authority and board of War on all such occasions: whose instructions and advice you are to follow. You will keep me constantly advised of the state of the posts under your care, which you are to visit frequently and send me a return of them, setting forth the names of the respective Assistants; each of whom are to take the usual oath of office, and execute a bond for the just and faithful performance of their duty, which bond for the sum of ten thousand dollars in silver, you arc to lodge in the War Office for this State & take a receipt for the deposit of the same. I am your mo: ob Servant." October 2d JNO: PIERCE TO Gov: NELSON. Richmond In reply to complaints made of him, he assures his Excellency "that every step that he could devise has been taken" to hurry down provis- ions and cattle. He is very much interferred with by persons who have received appointments from his Excellency to make collections of pro- visions, thus producing confusion and conflict of authority—Begs that this may cease, and that proper instructions be transmitted to those already acting.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 521
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 521 MAJOR THOS: POSEY TO COL: WM. DAVIES. 1781. October 2d Ho has, in accordance with instructions, communicated with the Cumberland neighboring Counties. in regard to recruiting their quotas for the Con- tinental service, according to law—Their answer is "we can't move in our respective divisions, and we Keep off the draught untill the whole of our militia returns off duty agreeable to the orders from Govern- ment" * * * * He is unable to give a correct list of the number of recruits raised and sent' foward, for the reason that the men desert on their way to the different Rendezvous, and the officers receiving them fail to return lists of the several detachments delivered from each County. The Books of the general Rendezvous may supply the information. No "gross misbehaviour" has occurred in the recruiting business, except what "has been obvious to everybody—"Such as several of the Counties refusing to draught, or been prevented so to do, by an opposi- tion of men in arms." also such as "several Counties draughting men who are not proper persons to perform military duty" which is too true. Calls attention to the situation of the sick at that Post—He has writ- ten to Dr. Wilson also on this subject, and "in short has applied every where that there was a prospect of obtaining releif for the poor unhappy men"—Continues—"Now I must beg of you Col, if you are possess'd with any humanity (as I am sure you are) that you try to procure some releaf to the distress'd, Sick Soldiers"—"One fine cleaver young Vir- ginian is this moment expiring," and unless releived, many others must perish, as they are getting worse and worse every day. Some time ago he had enclosed a list of the Officers of the Va. Conti- nental Line, from the Cavalry, Artillery and Infantry, who should com- pose a Committee for the purpose of preparing and presenting a memo- rial to the Genl: Assembly, setting forth the greivances, under which the aforesaid Troops laboured—They are "Col: Wood, Colo. Febiger, Col: Davies, and Lt: Colo. Towles from the Infantry; from the Cavalry, Maj: Call, and Dr. Rose—and Colo. Harman from the Artillery—Con- cludes "But my dear Col:, if this aforesaid business is done, I am afraid your shoulders or head, is to bear the whole weight; but at any rate, if it is not done, we may expect to come far short of such provision as is made by other States for their Officers, tho' I submit the matter to your superior judgement to determine." M. LIVINGSTON TO Gov: NELSON. October 3d Enclosing an urgent request from M. de Tarle, Intendant of the French WilliamBb'g Army, that he be furnished with a statement of the amount of Provis- ions supplead the French Troops, by the State of Virginia; and request- 66
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 522
522 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. / 1781. ing directions, as to the basis upon which the prices of said supplies October 3d shall be established, and the mode of settling the accounts therefor. October 3d DAVID JAMESON TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Council I was honoured with your favour of the 1st & heartily congratulate Chamber On the successes so far. j nOpe a short time will place you in the Town. Mr. Ross is I expect with you by this time — I hope some mode may be fallen on of obtaining supplies to the satisfaction of all parties. I inclose the Commission for Mr. Armstead — Fourteen delegates & two of the Senate appeared on Monday — they adjourned to Teusday, when several more delegates appeared. This day they have adjourned to the first Monday in November. I expect to see you friday or Satur- day, and if the other members will consent to it, will join you as an Executive. With great esteem I have the honor to be Your Excellency's Mo: obed: Servt." October 3d Gov: NELSON TO COL: THOS: NEWTON JN'R. "Sir, Camp before The Provision Commissioners for Princess Anne & Norfolk Counties York will nave it in their power to furnish you with a considerable number of cattle. which, as it will be very inconvenient to apply them to the use of the army, you will dispose of to the French Fleet for cash. This will at the same time benefit the Fleet & Public: And the Commissioners of the said Counties are hereby required to collect & furnish to you what the Law requires from their Counties. The Commissioners of Nanse- mond are also required to deliver to you or your assistants the Beeves of that Part of their County lying between Suffolk & Portsmouth. If two light whale Boats can be got you will be pleased to send them up immediately to Burwell's Ferry. The Count de Grass is much in want of Provisions for his table, by which I suppose he may mean small meats & vegetables—It much con- cerns us that he be well supplied, & I must beg that you will exert yourself for this purpose. If you cannot procure what is wanting by purchase, you are hereby authorized & impowered to procure it by impress, granting certificates for what you get in this way. You will also take the vessels necessary for your purpose, & their crews, & every other means of transportation which you shall find requisite—And all officers of the militia, on whom you shall call for assistance, are hereby directed to aid you in the execution of this office. I am Sir, Your ob't Serv't."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 523
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 623 PHIL: TALIAFERRO TO GEN'L: WEEDEN, by Express. 1781. "Sir, A party of the Emmy are now at Mrs. Whitings, and have sent October 3d out to collect the cattle and sheep adjacent. there being no one to oppose them, have thought proper to send this information to you & am with respect, Your most ob't Serv't." GENL: NELSON, TO COMM'RS OF ACCOMAC AND NORTHAMPTON Cos. October 3d "Sir, The Fleet and Army of our Allies requiring large supplies of fresh Camp before Provisions, it will be most convenient for your County to furnish its quota to the Navy. You will therefore dispose of the beef which the Public claims of your County. to the French Fleet for cash, your situa- tion rendering it difficult to settle for it in any other manner. I am Sir &c." Gov: NELSON TO COUNT DE GRASSE. October 3d "Sir, Mr. Wray the Gentleman to whom I have applied to provide Houses Camp before & Necessaries for your sick, will have the Honor of delivering you this. * "'' His Inclination leads him to render every service in his Power to the generous Friends of his Country: & if your Excellency will have him furnished with money, he will be able, I hope to procure for them every- thing requisite. I have the honor to be Sir &c." Gov: NELSON TO JACOB WRAY ESQ. October 3d "Sir, To enable you more effectually to provide Houses & necessaries for Camp before the Sick of the French Fleet, you are hereby impowered to take conve- York nient Houses, always taking care not to distress Inhabitants: and you will call on the Commissioners of Provisions for Elizabeth (City) County, to assist you: who are hereby required to deliver to you what Provisions they have collected, or are by Law directed to collect, which will answer your Purposes. You will, instead of taking Receipts, account for them with the Public in Cash. If you find an Assistant necessary, you will appoint such a one as you know to be competent to the office. I am &c."
Page 524
524 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Gov: NELSON TO M. DE TARLE, "!NTENDANT OF THE FRENCH ARMY." October 4th 1tgir Camp before I received your favour of the 2d yesterday. With respect to the Rations of corn, I think that I can venture to assure you there will be no other Difficulty in furnishing them, than what will arise from the want of the means of Transportation; which also will be removed as soon as the Artillery & Military stores are brought to Camp. Vessells were yesterday sent off to the Eastern Shore, a country abounding in corn and oats. where I had previously directed Forage to be collected— These vessels will soon return & and others arc out on the same Busi- ness,—which may be every day expected, especially one sent up James River about twenty miles above Williamsburg by Mr. Livingston, for fifteen hundred bushels of corn. Fodder it will not be in my power to supply you with, for which Reason I would take the Liberty of advising that proper Persons be sent up the Country where only it is to be had in considerable quantities, with money to purchase. Some for immediate use may be purchased in the neighborhood of Williamsburg—Had we possession of York River, abundant supplies of all kinds of Forage might be drawn from the Country adjacent to it." October 4th JNO: BucKELY TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Pittsylvania Regrets his inability to give correct return of the Grain Tax, not hav- ing rec'd those of the Commrs. of the Specific Tax, altho' he has applied over and over for them. In a few days he will send "a large drove of beaves to camp" and will have on hand a large quantity of flour, and other provisions. October 4th Col: Jas: Hendricks sends four wagons, loaded with cartridge boxes, Alexandria brought from Annapolis—two more wagon loads remain at that place. October 6th MAJOR R. CLAiBORNE TO COL: DAVIES. Richmond Requesting Exemptions for ten men, to serve as watermen, to trans- port supplies from Carter's Ferry to Westham; and from the latter place to Richmond, where ho proposes to establish a depot of supplies for the winter—These men will be needed until January 5th.
Page 525
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 525 BRIO: GENL: G. WEEDON TO Gov: NELSON. 1781. '' Dear Sir, October 6th I was last night fav'd with the Inclosed, by which you will Camp find how exceedingly the Detachmt. under Colo. Burwell have diminished, and I understood there were no arms with them. This being the case have ordered them to hault at Gloster Court House, having already 100 men of the Loudoun militia in camp, unarmed. And have sent Mr. Reynolds conductor of military stores to Williamsburg for a supply. We are also in want of Surgeons and medicine. Doctr. Iunis has afforded every assistance in his power, the Business however is too extensive for his utmost efforts. I am, with real Esteem & Respect Yr: Excellency's most ob Servt. Major R. Claiborne informs Col: Davies, that Mr. Hay can furnish October 6th canvas for bunks, and biers instead of oznaburgs—As this is an import- Richmond ant & particular matter, not knowing how soon they may be wanted, he sends down "six bolts" of canvas. MAJOR CLAIBORNE TO COL: WM. DAVIES. October 6th Requesting an order on the State for "300 yards of canvas, 90 lbs. Richmond Spanish brown, 12 gallons of oil and 2 Reams of writing paper" he being unable to furnish them to Capt: Rice as required—The canvas paint and oil for making covers for Ammunition Wagons, and the paper for the use of the Officers. Edward McGwire and David Kennedy, enclose to Governor Nelson October 6th the Petition of one Philip Wolvine, once granted by Gov: Patrick Borough and Henry, praying for permission to procure one thousand weight of lead from "Chizles Mines" to be employed in the manufacture of "Potters Ware," for want of which the people are suffering—They certify to the "distress of the poor" on this account. Gov: NELSON TO COUNT DE GRASSE. October 5th "Sir, Mr. Maury who is charged with this Letter to you, waits on your Camp before Excellency to be informed of the circumstances of the Detention of the York Flag vessels carrying Tobacco to Charleston. He was appointed the Agent to negotiate the sale of this Tobacco & to discharge the officers
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 526
626 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Debts, but is now instructed, as political Reasons may still make it October 6th improper for him to proceed, to return with the vessels into Port. He is also empowered to purchase for the State any vessels captured by his most Christian Majesty's Fleet under your command, which your Excellency may think proper to have disposed of in this manner; And I beg that you will aid him with your Countenance in the transacting of this business. I have the Honor &c." October 6th Gov: NELSON TO COL: SIR JOHN PEYTON, pr: Robt. Andrews, Sec'y. "Sir, Camp before There is an immediate necessity for two swift Pettiaugers for the or Purpose of opening a short communication between the Camps. The Governor begs that you will have them procured and sent to Smith's Landing on back Creek. I am &c." October 6th ALSO TO MR. LIVINGSTON FROM THE SAME. Camp before "Mr. Ross Agent of the State, arrived in Camp to day. He is now conferring with the Agents of the French Army, & may come to some agreement with them which will be more favourable to government than the mode of purchasing from Individuals—The Governor requests that you will settle the accounts as the Intendant desired, & as you know better than he does the Prices which have been given for the different articles, he leaves it to you to fix them. He will however be obliged to you, if you will acquaint him by the first opportunity with the Rates you settle at. I am &c. October 6th DUKE DE CHOISY TO GOV: NELSON. "Dr Sir, Camp I have to request your Excellency will immediately order for Sewell's my Operations on this side York River, 18 waggons with their four Horses each. And 24 Horses with their harness for the Artillery service—It is very essential, I shall be speedily furnished with these Supplies, as without them, the service must suffer. I am with much Respect yr: Ex- cellencie's most ob't Serv't."
Page 527
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 527 Gov: NELSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS FROM VA. 1781. "Gentlemen, October 6th Since I last wrote, I have received your Favours of Sept: Camp before llth & 18th—A variety of causes conspired to prevent a regular York acknowledgment of them; but as we are now stationary & have reduced matters into some order, I shall venture to promise you, that you shall weekly at least, receive the occurrences of this Quarter, which I know must be objects of anxious curiosity, & I hope will be of very agreeable Importance. This evening will complete a week, since we moved down from Wil- liamsbnrg. The Enemy, very quietly permitted us to invest them, & on the second night, fearful I suppose of a storm, evacuated all their out- works, except one on the Hill above the Creek on the Williamsburg road, which they still hold. We immediately took possession of the Works they left, which have been converted into covering Redoubts for the intended approaches. These Kedoubts are about half a mile from the Town—The Enemy endeavored to retard these operations, by playing on our men who were at work, from their Batteries, but with very little effect, having killed in all only six men. We have not returned one shot—The Day before yesterday, on the Gloucester side, the Duke de Lauzun attacked with his cavalry & a corps of militia Grenadiers, Tarleton at the Head of six hundred men, consisting of the Horse of his Legion & a Body of Infantry—Tarleton was dismounted & wounded; a major who commanded the Infantry killed, near fifty men killed & wounded, and the whole Party defeated. The Loss on our side. was about 12 killed & wounded. The Duke, his officers & the whole of the men under his command behaved with so much gallantry on this occasion, that the Commander in Chief thought proper to give them his Thanks in the Order of yesterday. I am sorry to find that the Agent has not established some means of supplying you with money, a matter in which not only your comfortable subsistence, but also the Credit and Interest of the State are concerned. I have been for some time in daily expectation of seeing him in Camp, & the moment he arrives, I will urge him to a proper attention to this Business. I must beg that you will endeavour to secure for this State its Propor- tion of the Clothing lately imported for the Continental Army. The situation we have been in for nearly a year has so much put it out of our Power to provide clothes for our Line, that the few Troops we have now in the Field are not fit to be seen. I have the Honor to be &c."
Page 528
528 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPEKS. 1781. Jno. Pierce writes to the Governor that the Commissioner of Prince October 6th George Co. has informed him he can procure "six pipes of wine" if he Richmond be empowered to "seize it"—He has been instructed "to suspend taking it," until his Excellency could be consulted, and therefore, now desires instructions. October 6th Capt: H. Young sends to the Governor one of the Expresses to remain Richmond on duty at his Quarters—he has put only one man at the several posts mentioned, but as soon as riders can be gotten the order shall be fully complied with. October 6th HENRY GARNETT TO GOV: NELSON. Essex Co. In accordance with orders, he has been thro' the different Counties to hasten collections and foward supplies to the Army—Two thousand cattle on the way. Not more than about three thousand bushels of wheat can be gotten. which shall be ground and sent on as soon as pos- sible—The cor n collected has become heated, but will do for forage—No spirits to be had, unless taken from the Importers—The great scarcity of vessels has prevented him from transporting provisions sooner. October 6th COL: WM. DAVIES TO Gov: NELSON. War Office Having had no letter from his Excellency for some time, ho does not know whether the canvas or osnaburgs have been adopted for the pur- pose indicated—Major Claiborn has been absent at Camp for some time, and was in doubt as to the instructions in regard to "return " of horses delivered to him. Directions have just been given, hastening down the two thousand pairs of shoes for the French Troops. October 6th JOHN WATKINS COMM'R TO COL: DAVIES. Surry Co. He has been collecting estray horses left by the enemy, as ordered— Desires instructions how he is to get the wagon and team due from the County, the Co. Lieutenant having handed over the horses to Col: Parker, and taken his receipts. October 6th CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Dear Sir, Camp before Capt: Bowne has just return'd with a melancholly account York Of our cnance for tiie shells and shot being here in season. those from Kichmd. I do suppose may arrive, but am afraid that they will be inconsid-
This page contains an image.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 529
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 529 crable, as Capt: Bowne informs mo that a very great proportion of what 1781. we have are at Hanover Town. The means of transportation being October 6th entirely engross'd in Sending provisions to the Army, he says he could not get one brought down. A Vessell with shells & shot it seems came dovvn the River a few days ago to the mouth of College Creek, where she dropt her load, to what number I know not nor where from. I am now sending after them: our Landing now is Trebells—pray have direc- tions given to crafts-men accordingly. Nothing material has happen'd since I last wrote you only, that Mr. Tarleton got severely handled the other day in Gloster by the Duke do Lozen & the Genadiers de Mercer—his loss 50 & himself wounded. We last night broke the ground for our first parrillel line—our loss is few, not more than throe or four since I last wrote you—Is it possible to procure a few quires of paper? I am much in want of Arms for the militia—If there are any behind toward Fauquier Co. Ho:, I can hear nothing of them: flints are much wanted also—I have wrote to Capt: Bohannan for these things, but pray urge the sending them with the greatest Expedition—This day I am determined to have some Armorers & and Set them to work. I am Dr. Sir, Yours Sincerely." P. S. No tools or Travelling Forge yet. COL: THOS: NEWTON JNR TO Gov: NELSON. October 6th Excusing his apparent neglect, but has been too ill to attend to his Surry Co. Orders or reply to his letters—Has employed an active gentleman to remove the cannon, but apprehends great difficulty for want of the proper apparatus—But he will do all in his power to advance the work. CAPT: A. BOHANNAN TO — . October 6th Dwells upon the difficulties in sending proper Returns of mil: Stores Richmond issued—Asks for.part of his pay. Requires two assistants, on account of the "deranged State of the Military Stores "—Clothing much wanted for the men in the Laboratory. COL: JNO: FLOYD TO Gov: NELSON. October 6th "Sir, As an officer to whom the people of this County look for protection, Jefferson, as far as the militia Law puts it in my power: I take the liberty of men- ^' tioning to your Excellency, a short state of the deplorable situation under which we at present Labour on account of the Savage war: and 67
Page 530
530 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. which, unless we are enabled by Gover'nt to take some offensive measures October 6th against them early next Spring, or have some reinforcements, will be Desperate the inevitable destruction of this Country. On account of the unsettled that countrf an<^ dispersed situation of the Inhabitants, it is out of my power to send you an exact Return of the number of Militia in this County—but by Number of the last returns made me by the Captains, we had 327 including officers, militia and j beiieve at f^is time we have about 300, and near one third of these are preparing to go into the Interiour parts of the State, and many others would follow their Example, but are unable to remove by Land having lost most of their Horses already, by the Savages: & the Ohio runs the wrong way. Length of The frontier of this County along the Ohio River is 277 miles by number of ^ computation, and the Inhabitants greatly dispersed & cooped up in small people killed Forts without any ammunition—Eighty four of the Inhabitants of this County have been killed and captured since last spring, and many more wounded—We are now so weakened in the most exposed parts of the County, by having so many men killed, and others removing to Lincoln for safety, that when any murders is done, we cannot pursue the Enemy without leaving the little Garrisons quite defenceless. Widows and The most distressed widows & orphans perhaps in the World make up Orphans a great part Of our Inhabitants. I expect I need not mention to you that the Regular Troops who have hitherto kept this County from destruction must mostly be discharged this Fall & Winter, having served out the time for which they were Policy of de- engaged—A great deal more might be said, concerning the dangerous CountrVad- situatlon of tne8e Countries, but I have not been informed whether Gov- vecated, &c. ernment think it absolutely necessary for the advantage of the Com- munity at.large, to defend this County at so considerable an expence as must be incurred thereby: and I beg leave therefore to offer your Excel- lency one or two reasons, why it may be of advantage to defend the Kentucky Country. It is now beyond a doubt that the attention of at least 6000 Savage Warriors is fixed on this spot, and who will not dis- turb any other part of the Continent as long as we maintain our Ground—But on the contrary, as soon as this Country is laid waste, they will immediately fall on the Inhabitants of Washington, Mont- gomery, Greenbrier &c, in short from South Carolina to Pennsylvania— I believe all the Counties on the west side of the Blue Ridge. were kept for many years, penned up in Forts by the Shawaneese, Mingoes, Dela- wares & a few of their Adherents; if so what will be the consequence when at least fifteen powerful nations are united and combined with those above mentioned, against about twelve hundred militia, dispersed over three very extensive Counties. Those nations have absolutely been hitherto kept off your back Settlements by the Inhabitants of Ken- tucky—Two or three thousand men in this Country would be sufficient to defend it, and effectually secure the back Settlements on New River & its waters, as well as those high up James Kiver & Roan Oke, but if
Page 531
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 631 this Country must brake up, perhaps twice that number will hardly be 1781. sufficient to secure so long & extensive a frontier—Other advantages October 6th might arise from carrying an Expedilion over the Ohio, besides securing the friendship of many Tribes of Indians who are as yet kept in sus- pence, and even some of those who have already taken up the Toma- hawk against us, are still wavering: but this will not be the case another season. My own knowledge of the danger which this Country is & will next Spring, be exposed to, has induced me to take the liberty of addressing your Excellency on that subject, which I hope you will excuse. I have the honour to be your Excellency's most ob't and very h'ble Serv't." COL: JAMES HENDRICKS TO COL: WM. DAVIES. October 8th "Dear Sir, I received yours of 25th ult: and have in consequence thereof Alexandria wrote to the County Lieutenants around me to send their cloathing, but none hath yet come to hand. I sincerely wish half a dozen at least of the different Kinds of Officers who neglect their duty was Hang'd, after which the remainder no doubt wou'd do better. I am constantly writing and sending expresses to the Commissioners and others of influence to send me down Provisions, all without effect— all that I can do is to assist with craft to get Flour from Geo: Town, where there is a good deal collected. I am told the Executive hath thoughts of supplying the French Fleet & troops with provisions. I wish it cou'd be accomplish'd in a proper manner. if they can get the Hard money to purchase a few Thousand Barrels of Flour & Head of Beeves to begin with untill these things can be collected by Taxation, it will do. on the contrary if dependance is placed on Seizing and collecting by Taxation it will not do. I can say without vanity, that I know the Sentiments of the People in the Northern Neck,* as well as any man in it, and from my acquaintance with every mill, know the quantity of flour that is now in it, better than any other person. God grant wise measures may be pursued—my dear friend use your influence to abolish this infernal Seizing Scheme. it serves no other purpose than to sour the minds of the People and discourage industry, which it hath already done in an eminent degree. I know all methods ought to be made use of in the present emergency, but we ought to look forward. the present Assembly hath it now in their Power to forever ruin us, or raise us up respectable again amongst our neighbors—repeal *The Northern Neck at this date embraced the Counties of Fairfax, P. William, Stafford, &c., to the foot of the Mountains, instead of the small peninsula between the Potomac and the Rappahannock, now known by this name.
Page 532
532 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. all Tender laws—Open our Ports—Call on the People for Heavy Taxes October 8th in real Specie or the actual exchange in Current money, and call for such Quantities of Specific Supplies as are wanting, and guard against their being wasted in the shameful manner they have been." ***** "If the Executive propose purchasing for the French, it must be done instantly—I have reason to think if I had the hard cash I cou'd give from the Counties above me, from one to Two Hundred Barrels pr: day." With much esteem I am D'r Sir Your ob't h'bl Servant. October 8th Thos: M. Kean Pros: of Congress, informs Gov: Nelson, that Brig: Philadelphia Gen'l Irwine will set out the day following to take command at Fort Pitt, and may require the aid of the Militia in the vicinity of that Post. He therefore encloses the Instructions given to that officer, with the hope that every support may be given him, in case of nccessity. October 8th CoL: J. SYME TO . "Dear Sir, Hockey Mills . Being oblig'd up here from Richmond, I sent your litre: to the officer Com'anding Cavalry at New Castle, the next Day. I Had a verbal an'r that Capt: Randolph would write you, and that He was not plundering me of all. I know not what he means by the word Plunder, or, whence it came, but of Taking my best Pastures, part of the small qnt: of Forage left me by the Marquis' Army &c &c &c'ra. I know not what is Damaging me, or indeed prejudicing me In the most sensible manner—I am just now told they are taking the Troughs out of my Stables—I shall go down there & wish to hear from you at that place in a Day or Two—Colo. Christian will not wait. I am Dear Sir, In haste Your mo: Obed: Serv't." October 8th Gov: NELSON TO D. JAMESON LT: GOVERNOR. "Sir, Camp before For some days after my last to you, our Troops were employed in making such things as are previously necessary to the opening of Trenches. On the evening of the 6th, we broke Ground at the Distance of 600 yards from the Enemy's works generally, though in some Places rather nearer. The night was favourable, and the men had so far covered themselves, before the Enemy discovered what .they were about, that although a heavy firing began about nine-o-clock, & continued with
Page 533
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 533 little Intermission till the morning, scarcely any Loss was sustained. 1781. The Fire was chiefly directed to the left where the French Troops were October 8th at work. Some Batteries, I expect will be opened to morrow. In Gloucester, the Duke do Lauzun, with the Horse of his Legion & some Militia Grenadiers, repulsed Tarleton at the Head of 600 men—Tarleton was dismounted & wounded, the commanding officer of his Infantry killed, and at least 30 of his men killed & wounded. The Duke's Loss in killed & wounded was about twelve. If Mr. Pierce has not set off for Camp before this reaches you, urge him to hasten down, as there is much confusion in his Department here. * * * * * * I am &c—." THOS: ANDERSON TO Cor.: DA VIES, by Mr. Christ: Hudson of Albemarle October 8th Co., who waits on him to recover, by an order, a fine "full Blood" Colt, three years old. lately impressed by "Capt: Thornton of the 3d V. R. L. Draggoons," and which can hardly be expected to do much service at such an age. Adds "I can assure you on my Honour that Mr. Hudson is a true Buckingham friend to our cause and has on all occasions acted very spiritedly, especially in turning out as a Volunteer, which he has done several times & served full tour of Duty, finding his own Horse & bearing his Expenses without fee or Reward & has not made any charge to the State, & more particularly when the Enemy were plundering up James River, he was of the utmost Service to the Quarter Master in saving his stores, as he was for several days riding & Reconnoit'g the Enemies Lines, while they were at Capt: Ware's Mill, and setting forth a nora- tion among the Inhabitants that 1200 Riflemen were on their march down & were to be at the Glebe in Albemarle that night (where Capt: Russel's stores were)—I say I am well convinced this was the Reason why they did not go up to the Glebe & destroy the stores there, for there was nothing ta prevent it, & that very night they heard of this news & moved off the next day. I don't doubt Sir, but you will think it hard to deprive such men as these of the Benefit of serving us" &c. * * * * I am with very great respect Yr: ob. Serv't." JAMES MADISON JNR: AND EDMUND RANDOLPH, DELEGATES TO Gov: October 9th NELSON. "Sir, When your Excellency assented to a weekly correspondence with Philadelphia us, we nattered ourselves with the prospect of being able to gratify those enquirers after Southern intelligence, to whom our situation would
Page 534
534 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. incline us to be communicative. We undergo a sensible mortification October 9th in being left dependant on uncertain reports for information of General Washington's progress. This mortification proceeds not from a wish to soothe our private curiosity. but from a conviction that the objects of our mission will be better answered: and injurious reports counteracted with effect, by the possession of authentic accounts. We therefore intreat your Excellency to give us a weekly intimation of military affairs in Virginia, altho' they should remain as they were at the date of the next preceding letter: assuring you that we shall continue to be punctual on our part. The decided measures which Holland has taken against Great Britain, drew from Mr. Adams the inclosed memorial.* There does not seem however, any ground to believe that his success will be immediate. It is impossible to expect that France, engaged as she is in expense, should maintain the American War out of her own treasury. Her advances for America have been generous, but not sufficient to overcome the necessity of the exertions of the different States. Every State has the same plea with Virginia, of being a creditor of the United States. Our hope therefore is, that whilst Virginia labours to furnish raw sup- plies, she will not forget the importance of fowarding to us as accurate an account as possible, of her disbursements for the Union. The report of a Committee of Congress appointed to consider the cessions of western territory made by Virginia, New York and Connec- ticut, has been brought into discussion at our instance. It declared in general terms, the inadmissibility of those cessions upon the conditions specified, fixed a day for ascertaining the boundaries, beyond which Congress would not guarantee, and concluded with a recommendation to lay out separate States in the ceded lands. After some debate it was recommitted. The Advocates for recommitment acted upon different motives: some intending thereby to open a door for a full and minute question of the territorial rights of these three states: whilst others, among whom we were, proposed that the subject should be handled merely upon the basis of several resolutions of Congress, passed with the express view of stifling all enquiries of right. We have attended the Committee for the great part of the three last days, which have been occupied by New York in the developement of her title. Her delegates will probably finish their pretensions to day. Connecticut will be concise. We shall deliver to the Committee written reasons for declining to enter into discussions of right. Your excellency need not apprehend that we shall weaken our title by the discovery of any ill-founded distrusts, or expose our candor to suspicion. We fore- warned the Delegates of New York and Connecticut of our scruples as to our authority to submit to an investigation of the right, and the Committee were reminded that their present procedure violated the assurances of Congress, contained in the resolutions abovementioned. *Not found.
Page 535
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 535 By the next post, we shall transmit a farther history of this transac- 1781. tion, together with a copy of our reasons. October 9th We have the honor to be, Sir, your excellency's mo: ob: Serv'ts." COL: WM. DAVIES TO Gov: NELSON, enclosing return of horses received October 9th by Major: Claiborn since the arrival of the Fleet. Reminds him of the Commissions to be signed, and begs him to enclose War Office to him as many as possible, there being several recommendations from the Courts—Will be happy to have his Instructions, as there is no Council to direct him. M. DE ST. JOHN TO . (French)—expressing at length his gratitude October 9th for the readiness with which his efforts to establish a Hospital for the French troops of the Army and Navy, particularly the kind offices rendered by Mr. Roy and Capt: King. The latter had been recommended by Genl: Washington, and a better Hampton selection could not have been made—Both of these gentlemen have been particularly kind, and Capt: King had pressed him to take a bed at his house and a place at his table, in the midst of the numerous inconve- niences incident to his arriving in a strange Country, &c. COL: II. E. LUTTERLOW TO Gov: NELSON. October 9th "Sir, I took the liberty to wait on your Excellency to state the case of Camp our wasting some corn fields. Hitherto the Forage masters of the Dif- ferent Brigades have collected fodder from the different farmers in the neighborhood of Camp. And upon the same footing I had engaged a field of corn, with the consent of our overseer belonging to one Maj: Southall, when this morning, my Teams were drove of by the said Mr. Southall, telling the Conductor that he had an order from your Excel- lency, that the field should belong to the French alone. And that Com- missioners were appointed to fix all the fields for our and the French Army. If this is the case, I shall be glad to know the Commissioners, and that our fields when allotted to me, as our horses are in a Starving condition for want of Fodder & Corn. The small Old Corn I brought on with our Teams is solely for the use of the Riding horses, and I must get a supply for the wagon horses every day." * * * have the honor to be your ExceFys most ob't Serv'nt."
Page 536
536 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Saml: Lyle enclosing to Col: Davies report of the Specific Tax for two October 9th years past—Since first of Oct:—he has sent upwards of Eight Thousand Rockbridge pounds of Flour to Richmond & has little now on hand. October 10th JAMES HAYES, TO HON: DAVID JAMESON, informing him he has sent by some wagons on their way to Richmond, copies of "the Laws and Journals of the last Session. Charlottes- "With the greatest difficulty" he has obtained a "copy of the Articles ville of War," also sent. October 10th Wm. Hay, Asst: Com: Agent informs Col: Davies, he has contracted Richmond with Mr. Boiseau for two thousand canteens, and requesting the exemp- tion for his three workmen. October 10th CHARLES WOMACK TO MR. ARCHIBALD BLAIR, enclosing a list of the negro slaves, belonging at the Public Tannery and Ropewalk. Those with the British, are as follows— '• Names. Age. Description. Warwick London 24 Well made, round face and yellow complexion. Jack Knight 32 Lusty, Round Shoulders & Dark" Cato 25. Slim & Brown Complexion Will 35. Black, Tall and very Talkative. Jacob. 22. Stout, well made & Bow Logged Jack Ambrose 30. Black, well made & pitted with S. Pox— Adam 20 Short & Thick—a little Deaf— Yorke 21 Black, short, & pitted w'th Small Pox- Jack 20 Yallovv & slim made— Charles 30 Yallow—very insinuating—Prop: of C. Thomas Davie — Yallow, bushy hair & well made— Daniel 24. Black, bow-legged & very peart. Daniel 30. Yallow, Surly Look & a shoe-maker. Jos: Mitchel 18 Dark & slim made— Eppee . 30. Black—a little bow-legged—" "The whole has had the Small Pox in May 1778." Now at the Public Tannery at Warwick, belonging to the State— Roger 28 Short, slim made and Black— Jack Portsmouth 35 Middle sized & yallow— Ambrose 30 Black & well made— Emanuel 26 Stout—well made & black. Charles 20 Yallow & slim Tom 30 Black—much troubled sores, ever since he was Enoculated in May 1778."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 537
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 537 PETER HOG TO Gov: NELSON. 1781. "Sir, October 10th 1 am honoured with yours by Mr. Woodrow, in answer to mine, Buckingham inclosing Claypoles petition, which I shuld not have addressed to the hon'ble Board, had I not been informed by report, that the Assembly by a special act for the purpose, had empowered the Executive to pardon such of the Insurgents as they should judge proper objects of clemency: this seemed in some measure confirmed by your Excellencies Letter to the County Lieutenant of hampshire, -for I am perswaded that the Assembly would have extended their Lenity to the petitioners as the most deserving, from their ready submission to the Laws of the Country; and had it come in contemplation, would no doubt have pointed out a mode which would have enabled your Excellency & the hon'ble Board to supercede the judiciary proceedings without any Embarrassment. And as I confide in your Excellencies Intentions of referring the matter to the Assembly, I make no doubt of their ready concurrence with the mercifull disposition of the Executive towards those deluded people: which with the success, we may in all humane probability, promise to our Arms, at this juncture, may have a happy Tendency to conciliate the inimical, and confirm the wavering. The alarming Depreciation of the. paper Emissions which at present threatens Distress to Individuals, and ruin to our cause, induces mo to mention the subject to your Excellency, and tho' I am sensible that it is the peculiar prerogative of the house of Delegates to regulate this important Branch of Legislation, yet, Sir, your Influence as an Indi- vidual of Fortune, and your rank as first Magistrate of tho State, adds weight to any matter which you may recommend, and will be better received than if it came from a private person. It is too obvious that no mode can be projected for raising the Value of our paper Currency on publick Faith, or publick Credite, which are both lost, from the calamitous Emergencies of our Affairs; and it is to be doubted if we have Men of Fortune and patriotism sufficient, to risque their private Estates to retrieve them, tho' this has been done by the Gentlemen of our Sister State of Maryland, nor could it, if effected here, would it answer the desirable end of retaining the smal proportion of Gold & Silver Coin, that is still in the State: for nothing less than a general medium of equal Credite and Currency thro' all the united States, can possibly answer this purpose. And therefore, it is to be wished that the plan of the national Bank, approved, as it is said, by Congress. was to be adopted by the Legislature of every State. for it is plain that a currency confined to the State, must eternally depreciate, since every person travelling or trading to the Northward, must give whatever Exchange the holders of Specie are pleased to demand for their coin, as that alone can answer the purposes of paying the Expenses 68
Page 538
538 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. of the Journey or making purchases; and from the Invasion of the October 10th Enemy, the most necessary articles of Salt & sugar, with all the other conveniences of Life, come at present from that Quarter. And, what is to be lamented, must continue in that channel for some time, as the few Vessels belonging to this State uncaptured, are not suf- ficient to import the Supplies requisite for the Consumption of the State. This, I think, is evidently proved by the rapid Depreciation of our States Emission, since the Bills of Congress that served as a genl. medium, have been called in to the northward. I would submit to the Legisla- ture as a certain means of acquiring Specie, an Act to tolerate, or encourage by every method their wisdom may point out, the Exporta- tion of provisions, particularly flour & Bread, to the ports of our Allies in the West Indies; as, from the extraordinary Crops in this Country, as well as in the neighbouring States, we can support our Army, and abundantly supply the Fleet & Army of our Allies, in whatever Quarter of America, or the West Indies they may carry on their Operations. I am sensible that supporting our Army in this State, with the article of flour, has been attended with some difficulty, but this has been owing to circumstances, rather than any scarcity; such as the large proportion of our militia called into service, which lessen'd the number of Labourers; the Destruction made by the Enemy of our 'merchant mills in the lower parts of the Country, with the flour & Grain that was on hand; and the particular Time between the old & new crops, which is commonly attended with a scarcity of flour, together with the remarkable dry season, has greatly contributed to the difficulty. And to remove the obstacle arising from the Danger of Captives, I apprehend, that if any Gentleman, or set of Gentlemen in Trade would engage in this usefull branch of commerce, & contract with the Agents of our Allies, they could procure at stated Times, a sufficient Escorte from their Fleet, both for the outward & inward bound. and if the Executive were to use their Influence with the french Admiral, this favour would be readily granted. I profess to know nothing of financing, but only mean to point out what appears to me feazible & practicable, which I submit to those whose province it is to carry it into Execution, but this much, I beg leave to observe, Since our paper Emissions has depreciated from 600 to 1000 for one, that it would be requisite for the Legislature to regulate the Taxation accordingly, and instead of receiving the Bills at the rate of 40 for one in Specie, to order them to be receiv'd at the aver- age rate of the present Depreciation. this, in my opinion, bids fairest for Keeping the present value of it, or at .least to prevent a total stag- nation as it has already stagnated in every County between this & potowmack, and even in many parts of all the Counties on this side of the blue ridge; but if Taxation was increased in proportion to Depre- ciation, those who now regard it entirely useless, which it really is for the purpose of purchasing on this side of the mountain, would be glad to receive it for what articles they had to sell, to enable them to pay ^
Page 539
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 530 their taxes. It may be objected, this would be inconsistent with the 1781. words on the face of the Bill, but for heaven's sake, let us no longer be October 10th Slaves to sound, and rather listen to Sense & the voice of Reason. besides it may be remarked that this is not a greater Inconsistency, than the Law, which enacts that the paper Bills shall be a legal Tender for the same Denomination of money due in Specie 7 years agoe, tho' the face of the bill says the holder shall only receive a fortieth part of the Denomination ten years hence. but whatever Inconsistencies the Exi- gency of our affairs may have occasioned our Legislatures to commit hitherto, it certainly can be no reason for pursuing the same Tract or persisting in a similar Conduct, when the Situation of Affairs will admit, nay -calls for an alteration. And surely if I can sell any Article of the Value of 20 shillgs. in Specie for £5 or £600 in paper Bills, I pay no more, nor am I heavier taxed, when I pay £600 of the paper Emissions, than if I was to pay 20 Shillings in Specie. Tho' in private Dealings & in every other respect, I would recommend it to leave the Value of our paper money at large, & of course to repeal the Tender law. If your patience can bear to give a reading to this long Epistle I hope your candour will regard it as intended for an Information of the State of the Currency on the frontiers & a Sensibility of the ruinous mischief that allready has, & must inevitably attend the further Depreciation of it. I have the honour to be, with real Esteem & the greatest respect, Your Excellencies most obedient & hum: Servt." COL: WM. DAVIES TO Gov. NELSON. October 10th "Sir, I thank your Excellency for your favour of the 8th. I wrote as War Office long ago as the 29th of last month for the coats, without buttons or hooks and eyes, as the troops, from the coolness of the weather, 1 was sensible, wanted them. The difficulty of transportation I suppose has prevented their arrival as yet, tho' I hourly expect them. I have been fortunate enough this morning to get buttons for all the coats we have, or shall have—I intended to have set off to Camp this week, but tho back militia have stole my horses, as well as those of every body else they can lay their hands on—The mischief those fellows have done, under pretence of rescuing horses from the enemy is really alarming to the country, and their return from Camp has more the appearance of an incursion of the enemy for plunder—I hope the town will soon be in your possession, as I presume they begin to feel by this time the efficacy of our fire. I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect your Excellency's most ob't Serv'nt."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 540
540 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. WM. ROSE K. P. J.* TO COL: WM. DAVIES. October 10th "Sir, On a motion made yesterday for a writ of Habeas, directed to me to have the Bodies of Geo: Gibson, Wm. Ball, Stephen Taylor, & Sacher Kellum, the 4 Eastern Shore men before the Judges of the Genl: Court this morning, on which I am to return the Cause of their Caption and Detention. I must therefore beg you will assist me, or these men Mr. Baker will certainly set at large. I shall acquaint the Court with their crimes previous to their setting: but doubt whether that will be effectual. I am, respectfully Sir. your most obedient Serv'nt." October 10th COLO: CHAS. DABNEY TO COL: WM. DAVIES—p. Sergt. Crump. "Dear Colo: Camp near We have drawn our first parralel round the Town of York York Town &t the distance of about five hundred yds:— Yesterday afternoon the American Battery of ten Guns was open'd on the Town. This mor'ng the French are to open a Battery of thirty Guns. The enemy have given us very little interruption in car- rying on our works. Not more than ten or twelve of our men has been killed. Our next parralel. which it is expected will be open'd in two or three days from this, will be within two hundred yds: of their works, then we may expect pretty warm work. Out of upwards of thirty six-months men that Knsign Boush has sent on to join me, but one has got to Camp. A number of them I am inform'd arc stop'd at Richmond, for different purposes, and some are inlisted in the State Legion. I have sent Serg't Crump to collect them and bring them on to Camp—pray let me hear when there is a probability of drawing clothing for the soldiers—they are very naked and are get'g sickly. I am Sir— Yr: obed't Serv't." October 10th Major Claiborne informs Col: Davies of the arrival of the cartridge Richmond boxes from Maryland—The wagons will return to Alexandria. October 10th WlLLIAM CHRISTIAN TO GOV: NELSON. "Sir, I had the Honour to receive your Letter, appointing me a commis- sioner for settling with the Officers, Commissarys &c in the Western *Keeper of the Public Jail.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 541
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 541 Country. I beg to be excused from acting in that Business, as it by no 1781. means suits me to go out in Time. October 10th Col: Arthur Campbell is to go to the Kentucky Country this Fall; per- haps he might be willing to Act in my stead—He is capable & if he will undertake it, you may rely upon his Integrity. I am yr: obed. hble Servt." MAJ: RCH: CLA!BORNE TO THE HONBLE J. AMBLER AND SAML: McDow- October 10th ELL MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL—acknowledging receipt of their enclosure, covering the letter of Sept 27th from Gov: Lee of Mary- land. "The wagons and teams mentioned were impressed by the clerk to Richmond the assistant Dept: Q. Master at Staunton. and fowarded to this place with Flour for the Army before York Town—Continues "I am eorry that the Gentleman exceeded his authority by taking the property of another State, as my instructions extended no farther than Virginia; as did his Excellency Governor Nelson's Warrant in consequence of which an impressment was made for wagons for the continent. I have given orders that the wagons, teams & Giers shall be immediately returned to their respective owners, and shall give such instructions throughout the department, as shall prevent everything of the Kind in future. I beg leave to assure you, Gentlemen, that it is my wish to have har- mony, and a good understanding Kept up in the point you recommend, and trust that you will communicate to his Excellency Governor Lee, that this, with every other matter which comes before me, in which any subject of the State of Maryland may be interested, shall be satisfacto- rily settled as far as I have it in my power. I think Gentlemen, if ever money was necessary to do justice, it is particularly so upon this occasion; as a discharge without a compensa- tion for the services they have performed, would subject the men to con- siderable expence in obtaining payment and leave a prejudice upon the minds of them, and those who might be interested in their favor. Will you be pleased therefore to grant a Warrant to me on the Treasurer of this State, for £27.600, to discharge the debt, to which sum their time and pay amounts. I have the honor to be with very great respect Gentlemen Your most obet Humble Servt.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 542
542 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JNQ: PIERCE TO Gov: NELSON. October 10th Richmond Enclosing a letter* from Capt: John Morton, "a Gentleman of char- acter & veracity in the County of Prince Edward," in regard to the con- duct "of Mr. Watkins"—concludes "I am sorry to find that such men as Mr. Watkins should hold a seat in our Legislature & hope some meas- ures may be adopted to call him to acct: for his proceedings." October 10th TIM: PICKERING TO Gov: NELSON. Camp Sending Mr. Henry Morris Quarter Master ut Wmsburg, to procure authority to secure more houses-for hospitals, "the sick are so increased," and the physicians having made demand for them. October 10th COL: THOS: NEWTON JNR: ToGov: NELSON. "Sir, Surry Co. Your Exc'ys of the 19th & 27th ulto: I received, & have paid due attention to them. The Consul receives the cattle &c'a & distributes them as he chooses, tho' I enquired after the ships in James River & found they had removed. the Consul looks on himself as Agent Vic- tualer for the fleet & transacts all matters relating to them. as such I have directed the supplies to be delivered' to him & to take his receipt for them." ****** "Colo: Godfrey has arrested several of the officers of the militia—I wrote to have the refugees taken up, those run off from York but am afraid they will be rather protected by too many who remained at Norfolk & Princess Ann, whilst the enemy were there & have never been punished for their behaviour. if some step is not taken to punish such men as have even taken up arms with the enemy, the whole of that Country will become a set of torys. Many of them now are living in affluence & have plenty of specie at command, claiming the privilege of paroles, whilst the good men who left their homes, are starving for want of necessaries, having no hard money to buy with, & the others do every thing in their power to prevent the paper from passing—I hope your Excellency will have time soon to look into these matters & punish those who deserve it. The time for laying in Pork &c now advances fast. Specie wou'd command large quantities at a very low price, if it is purchased soon, but if let alone it will be very high: the mode of impressing will ruin the country. all the spirits are now taken, and every thing else dimin- ishes so fast that I am afraid we shall not get supplies much longer: * Not found.
Page 543
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 543 indeed it is very hard on individuals who lie near the Army, to bear the 1781. burthen & have such prices fixed on what is taken from them as will October 10th not purchase one tenth of the same commodity from those who have not been distressed and have to spare—1 am quite tired out with com- plaints from the people about it, & have inform'd them that I expect the Assembly will take the matter into consideration & relieve. I pray your Excell'y to use your influence in it as the case is very hard. Coll: Pat- rick Henry still persists in entering the Cape Lands. I am afraid of some deficiency in the Law to prevent him. the French fleet now waters there & may wood if they choose. we may have the same case of our own some day, but if it becomes private property a heavy charge will be made for those things, which ought never to happen. besides we have £10.000 value in stone for the light house lying there, which will belong to the taker up of the land. I hope your Exc'y will excuse me for troubling you with matters of this kind at this time, but as it is of such consequence to keep these places for public uses, hope you'l pardon me. wishing you health & success I am Yr: Excellency's most ob't Humble Serv't." CAPT: A. BOHANNAN TO COL: DAVIES. October 10th Mr. Kennaday just returned from Irvine's, reports two wagon-loads of powder from Staunton* had arrived there, and is now on the way by water to Westham, the remainder at Point of Fork will be forwarded at once. The shells, shot, & files &c for the Traveling Forges have been sent by a vessel—To day another vessel will leave with small shot, two hundred muskets and the cartrid'o boxes from Annapolis. COL: JAS: HENDRICKS TO Gov: NELSON, informing him he is loading October llth some vessels sent him by Col: Pickering Q. M. Genl:, with six hundred galls: of spirits and one thousand barrels of flour, though he is sorry to say, he had collected most of these from the Q. Masters and Commis- saries of Maryland. Continues "The extraordinary dry season hath nearly stop'd all the Alexandria Mills" in my Vicinity, tho' I still think if the Commissioners wou'd exert themselves they might send down some flour. We have daily wagons coming to Town from the back Counties loaded with flour purchas'd by the French Agents, which shews that there is some of that article manu- factur'd, and surely we ought to have a little share. I hope the Com- missioners of Counties back of me, hath orders to send their flour to this place, as I have every necessary store for receiving, and whilst our Army is^ in its present situation it can be ship'd with the greatest facility."
Page 544
544 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. GEO: WEBB TO Gov: NELSON, in regard to the case of Rev: Mr. Lyon, October llth sentenced to five years imprisonment by the Court Martial of Acco- mac Co., and brought to this place by Executive Orders. Council It appeared proper to remove him from the neighborhood of the dis- (j am er afl-ectec[ at that time, but in as much as many of his County men wish to have his punishment mitigated, and as Col: Cropper recommends the same, it may be best at present to put him on parole, with proper security, "not to approach within forty miles of any British Post, and to be fortheoming on the future Order of the Board." Requests instruc- tions as soon as practicable. October llth SAML: DYER TO in regard to Capt: Russell's "making free with the Stores belonging to the State, that were sent to his post at New Glassgow." Albemarle Thinks it "very extraordinary that fine nuns thread should be suita- ble for making of Bags, especially when there was a considerable quantity of coarse, in the same package, that would have answer'd the purpose, that was not medled with." * * * * "There was a deficiency in the Stores of 3 lbs Tea & li lbs of nuns thread, instead of IJths lbs. tea & i Ib. thread." Expresses desire to collect "further proof respecting the affair," and thinks communication should be had with Capt: Russel, who lives in Pittsylvania near Pey- tonsburg, through Major Claiborne, that Post being under his direction. October llth DAVID Ross TO MR. ROBT. CREW, "care Col: Cropper, Acoomack." Camp before He had written to him from Point of Fork, and shall be glad to hear he has "secured a convenient passage" on his destined expedition. Has just heard he had appointed Mr. Custis his successor until furth'er orders. Knowing the great want of Salt, he trusts the ':most pointed directions" will be given to the Agent on the Eastern Shore that no measures be left untried by him to procure a plentiful supply there, and that it may also be gotten from abroad by himself—Continues—"The article of spirits is exceedingly wanted at this camp. J have not as yet heard of any having arrived from the Eastern Shore, in consequence of the former Orders given respecting that article. I hope there is however a consid- erable quantity collected and that it waits only for a Vessell to bring it here—Commodore Barren, who has the command of the Vessells, will send over one immediately to bring the spirits. It is extremely essentiell to the publick interest that there sh'd be a plentifull supply of spirits, corn & oats brought to this camp with all possible expedition. I must
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 545
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPE11S. 545 therefore intreat you to aid the Commissioners all in your power in pro- 1781. curing & sending foward the several articles above mentioned. October llth I have wrote to Comodore Barron to send two vessells that you may be fully accommodated with freight and I hope they will return loaded." * * "I must request that you give par- ticular directions, that all supplies sent to this camp during the Seige shall be directed to Colo. Richd. Morris or some other State Agent— this precaution is necessary, that the State may, on the delivery of them to the French Agents, or to the Continental Commissarys or Quarter Masters, get the proper vouchers" &c. A punctuality in correspondence is at all times very proper and essen- tially so at this time—You'll please to note the resources of these Coun- tys, and the articles that can best be spared. There is no news here at present—the operations of the seige has the most promising aspect at present & every thing goes on with the greatest harmony. nothing more will now be wanting, but a plentifull supply of provisions & Forage, which can easily be procured, if the people in general will only exert themselves in a moderate degree." M. M. MONBOS AND LUTIL TO Gov: PALMER, calling his attention to the October 12th case of the "Brig Bellows," Capt: Latouche, consigned to them by the Count do Grasse; which vessel having gone ashore upon Smith's Point, had been seized and her cargo of Rum &c impressed by Col: Kenner for the use of the State. They enclose the sworn statement of Capt: Latouche, and add "We Baltimore must beg leavo to observe, Col: Konner's behaviour to him was not such as could be expected from friends, from Allies & we could almost say from civilized people. the Press Master of the State of Virginia might with propriety perhaps press the property of the Inhabitants, but to dare to extend his press warrants to french property, to effects intended for the purchase of the needfull refreshments for the Fleet of his most Christian Majesty now defending your Liberty & property is an act we can attribute to nothing but the press Master's thoughtlessness & which we hope you'll take upon yourself to rectify & give for the future such orders, as in case of french vessells distress, will be sooner caleulated to the alleviating than increasing the same—We shall expect by return of Post your answer. We have the honor to be with respect your Excellency's most obedient & most humble Servants." 69
Page 546
546 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. GEORGE KELLY TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, October 12th Jn consequence of Mr. Newton's Illness, I am station'd here at his Norfolk request, and authorized to have the provision law carried into execu- tion. have accord'gly appointed Commissioners for that purpose." * * "I can have a number of cattle delivered in a short time provided there was any method fixed on by Count De Grasse for sending for and receiving them. it's totally out of my power to procure vessells to send them on board there being none here. the Commissioners of Prin- cess Anne County have deliver'd to the Chevalier Dunmore, the Consul, for account of the State, one Hundred & odd cattle, and would have deliver'd five or six hundred more before now, but the Chevalier would not receive them. he has always led us to believe that the whole trans- action of supplies must go Through his hands, that he must grant receipts for all. I shall endeavour, as soon as possible to go on board Count Dc Grasso in order to fix on some method for The delivery and receipt of cattle. in the interim, shall deliver cattle to any his most Christian Majesty's Officers, who will receive and grant receipts in favor of the State. I can have a number deliver'd shortly, provided they would send their boats to Lin Haven inlet, Sewell's point & Crany Island with persons authorized to grant receipts. I have, in consequence of receipt of yours, sent to the Commissioners of Norfolk, Princess Anno & that part of Nansemond below Suffolk, to Immediately collect what cattle the law requires, and to Transport them to or near the above places, into the most convenient pastures, and to give me notice accordingly. all my doubts are they will not be taken off before they will suffer, as the pas- tures are but sorry. no such thing as a whale boat here at present. Should any come here will send them up. there is no purchase can be effected here with paper currency. there has been very pletifull sup- plies of cattle & sheep from North Carolina drove down to Lin Haven Inlet for sale in such plenty that they have not been able to vend the whole. I am Sir, Your mo: obed: Serv't." October 12th WM. HANNAH TO Gov: NELSON, complaining of his having been detained six weeks, although his vessel came under Flag of Truce, from Lieut: Gonl: Earl Cornwallis, and a Passport from Comm: Symonds, with the negroes of Mr. Wormley and other Gentlemen: that the negroes had been delivered to their owners, and that he has not violated the rules of Flags. Urbanna His "vessel is almost ruined by the worm" and his expenses very great—Is persuaded he is detained under the supposition he came from New York, whereas it was from "Little York"—Begs therefore that orders be issued allowing him to depart.
Page 547
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 647 M. DE KIRWAN, A FRENCH CITIZEN, TO THE EXECUTIVE. 1781. October 12th Stating he has been called upon to pay taxes, altho' a mere sojourner Alexandria in the Country, passing from placo to place, and protesting against such a demand. DUKE DE CHOISY TO Gov: NELSON. October 13th "Sir, I received about 80 horses without any harness even without hal- Camp before ters, so that very few of them can be employed; I remitted them to the guard of the Americain Wagon master. I beseech you to consider that I have not a single Wagon to the transport of the baggage of the Infantry, hospital and subsistances. if it is possible to you to supply me with 6 wagons furnished with harncss and carters, it will be suffi- cient to the transport of the corps under my command. And I shall be very doutfull for this supply without which in the case of a Suden march the baggage of my corps shall stay on the spot. I am Sir, with great respect Your obedt and very humble Servant." CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO COL: DAVIS, informing him, he has sent down October 13th to Capt: Fowler "660 Regimental Coats, 611 cloth vests, 144-Brooches, 331 linnen overalls & 21 Plain cloth coats, which will answer for wait- ers or waggoners." Hopes the coats and vests may have buttons put on them before they Albemarle are sent to camp—Has 500 pair shoes on hand, and will have 350 shirts arrac s ready soon. "The Taylors set to work on Gen 1: Spots wood's Stable Jacketts" and 200 will be ready in two weeks—Is out of linnen which puts a stop to shirt making—Which will be a pity" as he has just got- ten the women "cleverly at work." * * * * COL: THOS: NEWTON TO Gov: NELSON. October 13th Mr. Kelly will pay due attention to Orders in his absence—He is Surry Co. about to proceed down in person and will use every effort to supply, "the Count & other officers amply with all necessaries." Hopes to hear ere long that "you have amused the Enemy in such a manner as to oblige them to submit at discretion." David Ross enclosing to Col: Cropper in Accomac, certain instructions October 13th for Mr. Robt Crew, in regard to collecting spirits, forage &c—Com: Bar- Camp before ron sends a vessel, to which dispatch will be given as soon as loaded. York
Page 548
548 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. October 14th "Dear Sir, Camp before Your favor of the 5th came to hand yesterday; about the same time the arrival of some more shot & shells at Trebells was announced. I immediately sent a Conductor to receive them. he informs me that they are contained in three vessells from Richmd.. sent by Mr. Frazer. amongst them are a number of 12 & 9 pound Ball, which were ncver requested; these I have directed to be sent back again—Capt: Bohan- nan is much out in his conjecture about the Vessell that arriv'd first w'th those articles. it came from the Ship-yard, sent by Mr. Munford at the request of Capt: Bowne as he went up—I think he must be very forgetfull of, or very whymsical in his arrangements. On my appointing Mr. Frazer to act at Richmd. Capt: Bohannan wrote to me very press- ingly to let him act under him at that post. informing me at the same time that he was about moving all his matters down toward that point. I immediately consented to it, since which 'till now, I thought Frazer had been acting for Bohannan—however as I cannot conceive any neces- sity I have for a person to act for me at Richmd., I fhall be glad of Mr. Frazer's services as an assistant to Mr. Reynolds in Gloucester. Capt: Bohannan being on the spot with the heads of Q. Ms' Departments in this State, I imagine he cannot be at any loss for the transportation of what mil: Stores I may call on him for. The Arms w'th the small balls, as mention'd in the have not yet arrived; great are the demands for Arms in Gloucester. 600 were requested the other day, when I could furnish but 50. the tiles have at last come to hand tho' badly sorted. I have fix'd up Gibbons in Wmsburg & one Jervis down here, & If I could raise a vice or two more, & a Rat tail & 3 round file or so, think I could shortly have all the damaged Arms repair'd. I am glad to hear the Cartridge Boxes have arrived. I hope they are leather ones. they never were more wanted. pray direct Capt: Bohannan to send the whole of them down. I have not wrote you since the open'g of our Batteries, which was on Teusday last the 9th, ever since which, we have been play'g on the Enemy ncar 60 cannon and mortars, day & night. Our approaches are now carried within 200 yds: of their works, where our second line of circumvallation is form'd; the Batteries from w'ch will open to morrow, and four S: Ships of the line are to come up to cooperate the first fair wind. within three days 'tis thought we shall have upwards of 100 pieces of ordinance directed against the Encmy by land within point blank shot. desertion increases from the enemy. 14 came out yester- day & bring accounts that a vast number are kill'd and wounded—Since getting so near neighbors our loss is much greater. we had near 40 kill'd & wounded the last 12 hours. they fire shells most furiously. My Cond: is return'd & says only two Vessells have yet arriv'd with shott & shells. where the third is we can't learn. I am D'r Sir, with the utmost respect your very H'ble Serv't."
Page 549
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 549 COL. ANTH: W. WHITE TO Gov: NELSON, enclosing an order from Genl: 1781. han!: Morgan to Thos: Massie. under authority of the Executive to purchase for his use a "valuable Gelding" to be paid for by the State. October 14th In consequence of which Mr. Massie writes "I have agreed with Ruffln's Colo: White for a Horse of His, named "Godolphin @ 35000 Ibs of Ferry Tob'o" upper Jas: River Warehouse, which is what Colo: White gave for the Horse"—As Colo: White is now ordered to the South he requests, that the 35000 pounds be paid to Mr. Wm. Claiborne, on or before April 1st next, as he has to meet certain payments about that time. T. MARSHALL TO HON: DAVID JAMESON, ESQ LT: GOVERNOR. October 14th "Sir, I had the honor to receive a letter from his Excellency the Gov'r some time ago, informing me of my appointment as Commissioner to examine and settle the Public acc'ts in the Western Country, & author- izing me to draw on the Treasury for the necessary sum of money to bear ray expenses while imploy'd in that business: and as I have before wrote to his Excellency that I am willing to accept of the appointment, I shall esteem it as a particular favor, if you will let mo know whether the other Commissioners are willing to go out on the business or not, as I make no doubt but they have inform'd your honorable Board with respect to that matter. and also to let me know whether I could be supplied with hard-money, Tobacco or Land warrants to bear my expenses while on the afores'd business, or not, as I am told no paper money will purchase nothing, & know it to be the case in this part of the Country. Your answer by the bearer, on this subject will be esteemed a very great favor by, Sir, Your most obedient serv't." RALPH WORMLEY TO Gov: NELSON. October 16th "Sir. In consequence to your Letter to my Son of the 14th of Sopt'r giving your permission to Land our negroes, they were Landed last Thursday, contrary to my opinion, as I wou'd have them continued on board the Flag 'till it was determined whether I was to keep them. The Vessell was very foul & the worms got into her. The Capt: wanted to clean her. Now Sir, this application Ts to you to know if I may pay the Captain his charge of Bringing them, for without your leave I shall not do it, to Incur any censure from you or the State. 1 heartily wish your health and happiness & am with the greatest Respect S'r, your most Obed't Serv't."
Page 550
550 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: WM. DAVIES. October 16th "Dear Sir, Camp before Whilst writing the Letter that incloses this last Evening, three attacks were made on some of the most advanc'd of the Enemy's works by the Marquis do Lafayette, Baron do Viomenil M. G. & Genl: Muhlenberg, and carried w'th some loss on our side, by wh. we aro possest of three very advantageous posts w'ch have in our near approaches annoy'd us much & gives us every advantage we would wish for over the enemy. every part of the Town and the Ferry lays exposed to the fire from those places. Batteries 'tis expected will be ready to play from them by to morrow morning. the first wind brings up the ships, after wh. the matter will be easily settled. Our loss in the affair is not yet ascertained. Colos: Jamit & Barber, and Major Barber are wounded. who are kill'd I have not heard. I am going to see & will write you more fully next time. Since setting Gibbons & Jervice to work on the arms, I have about 250 put in repair. Arm chests are much wanted, & hope no more arms will be sent from Richm'd without being in chests. I am in haste D'r Sir, yrs: Sincerely." October 16th MANN PAGE TO in reply, concerning the "Traveling Forges." Mannsfleld He has applied to Mr. Hunter, who contracted to have them prepared, and finds the workmen are engaged upon them. He will cause them to be sent down as soon as finished. October 16th ROBERT MORRIS TO GOV'R NELSON (marked "Private.") "Sir, Philadelphia I would willingly write you an official Letter by this Post, on the subject of supplies for the year 1782. But I must decline it until I can obtain the proper Estimates, which are now preparing. In the mean time, as I learn that your Legislature are now sitting, I write you this private Letter upon that Subject. My former public Letters will fully have stated my Ideas, as to present Demands on the existing Requisitions of Congress. I hope and expect that these Requisitions will be immediately complied with. It is my decided opinion, founded on the best observation I have been able to make, and the most accurate and extensive Information I could possibly obtain, that paper Emissions will no longer answer the Purpose of car- rying on this War: and Experience must by this time have convinced every dispassionate Observer, that specific supplies are at once burthen- some to the People, and almost Useless to Government.
Page 551
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 551 It is unnecessary to draw the conclusion which I am sure will strike 1781. your mind, that a revenue in hard money must be obtaincd. But 1 will October 16th observe to you, that the present moment is very favourable to that object, in your State. The Expence of the Sea and Land Force, there is not less than ten thousand Dollars daily in articles of Produce: Of conse- quence your People may receive it, if they please: and at the same time the use of foreign articles does not, as formerly, drain. them of their cash. It will bo wise to precede those articles, and by calling on the People for hard money, and at the same Time leaving them a free market, encourage their Industry, and facilitate the payment of Taxes. While the war is in your Country, the Expenses of it will be so diffus'd as to possess its Inhabitants of specie, and should it be happily removed to a Distance, your commerce will bring in Resources equal to your necessities. I take the Liberty to request that you will communicate these senti- ments to my worthy Friend Colo. Harrison, and pray you to believe me very sincerely Your Friend & Servant." Bail Bond, of Benj: Bronson & Harwood Burt, in the penalty of ten October 16th thousand, and five thousand pounds Virginia currency, severally, rocog- York Co. nizing them to appear before the Governor and Council, to answer the charge of Treason, &c. COLO. WM. RUSSEL TO COL: DAVIES, regretting his absence from town, October 16th but cannot follow him to camp. He has desired to communicate with him on the importance of prepar- Richmond ing a memorial to be presented to the next Assembly, in regard to the pro- posed allotment of lands to the Officers and men of the "Virginia Line." The proposition is of infinite importance to them, involving great advantages, which should not be disregarded—He has mentioned the subject to Genl: Scott and other Officers. They join him in the wish that he (Col D.) should prepare this memorial, at least by the 12th november next. He is persuaded Genl: Muhlenberg will lend his assist- ance by "collecting the sentiments of the gentlemen at Camp," and com- municating them. "By His Excellency Thomas Nelson, junior, Governor of the Common- October 16th wealth of Virginia—" "A Proclamation." Whereas the General Assembly of this State stood adjourned until the first day of this month, at which Time, a sufficient number of mem-
Page 552
552 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. hers did not altend for tho Dispatch of public Business, & the Exigen- October 16th cies of the Commonwealth require that our Assembly should be held as soon as may be, & a Doubt may arise whether the adjournment made by a less number of members than the rules of the Said Assembly require, may be valid; I do, by & with the Advice & Consent of the Council of State, issue this my Proclamation, summoning the General Assembly to meet at the Town of Richmond on the fifth Day of Novem- ber next. Given under my Hand & the Seal of the Commonwealth this 16th Day of October 1781, & in the Sixth Year of the Commonwealth. THOS. NELSON JR." October 17th GOV: NELSON TO "HONBLE G. WEBB. "Sir, Your letter of the llth accompanying several others from different or Persons, has been received. Mr. Jameson & myself are of opinion that Mr. Lyon may be permitted to reside in any Part of the upper Country at a greater Distance than twenty miles above Richmond, on giving responsible Security for his good Behaviour, & to be forth-coming on the future Order of the Board." * * * * "Bo so good as to have the Seal of the Commonwealth affixed to the enclosed Proclamation, & have a printed copy of it sent to the Delegates of every County & to each Senator. Since my last we took by Storm, two of the Enemy's Redoubts. The Loss on both sides was nearly equal, & did not exceed one hundred. Our Batteries are now playing on their Works at the Distance of about 200 Yards. By noon, I am informed we shall have seventy Pieces of heavy cannon planted against them, which must soon reduce them to Terms, unless they take a Flight to Gloucester, which may delay their capture a few Days. Yesterday morning, a little before Daybreak, they made a Saily, & got into one of our Batteries. They spiked 8 cannon, which were immediately unspiked, & Killed & wounded about 16 men. They were repulsed & suffered nearly the same Loss." I am &c. October 17th WM. CONSTABLE TO Gov: NELSON, introducing "Mr. Ridley of Mary- land" who goes to Virginia to take passage for France, where he is appointed Commercial Agent for his State. Philadelphia The approval of the Executive of Maryland, is sufficient evidence of his standing as a merchant.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 553
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 553 Thos: Newton Jnr., enclosing to Col: Davies, a list of "hands" 1781. employed in removing cannon. One piece gone, safely delivered at "Mr. October 18th Jerre Godwin's Landing about six miles below Suffolk on the mouth of South Quay the west branch, that Landing having better roads to it than to Suffolk." Requests a vessel be ordered down, as he will soon have several pieces ready to be taken in. A flat-bottomed boat the best. Many of the Gentlemen of the navy being unemployed, Suggests the propriety of putting them in charge of these vessels. He will use every economy and dispatch, and hopes to get all the guns down "in a fortnight." COLO. JOHN NASH TO COL: DAVIES, expressing great "sorrow" that October 19th the militia of the County "appear in such a naked situation." They had been "stript of their arms, which were left in the public Pr. Edward magazines & there destroyed—The clothing from the County ready. Ho has given no returns of recruits, because the County had been exempted from the draft by the Legislature—The Commissioners and assistants are very busy fowarding supplies, but adds "we wait impatiently to hear of the time when such supplies will be no longer necessary." ROBERT MORRIS TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. October 19th "Circular. Sir, I am now to address you on a subject of very great Importance. I have to detail some facts which will demand the most serious attention from every Legislature, and from every public officer in the the United States. It is my determination to administer the affairs entrusted to my Care, according to Plans which are founded in Sincerity and Truth. Convinced of the Folly of our Enemy, in supposing that any consid- erable Body of men in the United States are opposed to the Revolution, I am persuaded, that in Order to remove the greater part of our Diffi- Necessity of culties, the first proper Step, is to state them fully to the People. thro' removing 111 J ' false impres- their Representatives. It shall therefore be a Part of my study to pre- sions pare every Transaction for the public Eye, so that the meanest Indi- vidual may be, in due Time, informed of those affairs, in which as a free citizen he is interested. The various reports which have been circulated, the Publications in the several Gazettes, and even Letters from some who ought to have known better: all these things have conspired to infuse an opinion that every Power in Europe is favorable to us, that great sums of money are already advanced to us^and that still greater Candour may be obtained—Whatever may be the fate of my Administration, I • J J ways govern will never be subjected to the Reproach of Falsehood or Insincerity—I him
Page 554
554 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS 1781. therefore tuke the earliest moment in which I am permitted, to make October loth those communications which will give an Insight into our real situation. With respect to the Situation and Polities of Europe, it is neither my Business to detail them, nor am I in capacity to do it with Certainty. But this at least is certain, that the Disposition of the european Powers, however friendly, has heen too much relied on. As a Proof, I need only observe that not a single State has acknowledged our Independence, except Franco, altho' an alliance with that respectable Monarchy has now subsisted ncar four years. Yet that Monarchy is certainly the first in the world. It is in the closest connection with Spain. Spain has long been engaged in the war, and still longer solicited to form an 'Union upon the Basis of the Treaty with France. The armed neutrality which gave such splendid Hopes to many, has not yet produced the Benefits expected. I will not proceed on the Ground of Conjecture, nor is it necessary for me to dwell longer on our political state, with respect to foreign Powers. But as there is little Reason to expect, so I hope there is no American who would wish, an alliance with any Empire on Earth, untill they shall be so sensible of our Importance, as to treat on Princi- ples of ?]quality. The public opinion as to the conduct of other Princes and States, has greatly injured us by relaxing our Exertions. But the opinion, as to pecuniary aid has been still more pernicious. People have flattered themselves with a visionary Idea, that nothing more was necessary, than for Congress to send a Minister abroad. and that immediately he would obtain as much monoj', as he chose to ask for. That when he opened a Loan hundreds would run to see who should have the Honor of subscribing to it, and the like—but surely a moment's Reflection should have convinced every reasonable man, that without the clear Prospect of Repayment, people will not part with their Property. Have the Efforts to borrow in this country been so successful, as to ground any Hope from abroad? Or is it to be supposed that foreigners will interest themselves more in our Prosperity and safety than our own Citizens? Or can it be believed, that Credit shall be given abroad before solid Funds are provided at home? Or could it be immagined that the Disorders necessarily incident to a great Revolution would be con- sidered as a belter source of Trust and Confidence, than the Regularity and Consistency of antient Establishments? The Congress, conformably to the public wish, have appointed Minis- ters; requested grants and opened Loans. In Holland they got nothing. And in Spain but very little. Loans were expected from Individuals in Holland, but nothing of that sort has been, or probably will bo obtained— Loans were not expected in Spain, unless from the King and from him they have been solicited, with but little Success. The distresed situation of public affairs forced the Congress to draw Bills of Exchange on their Ministers. Some were drawn on France,
Page 555
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. some on Spain, and some on Holland. The first were honored and paid— 1781. The others were accepted, l>ut Recourse was finally had to tho Court of October 19th France for the Payment of those also. They were drawn at long Sight. the sales were slow; they were remit- ted from Time to Time, and every opportunity aitbrded the ministers of the United States to obtain the monies for discharging them, but in vain. Of consequence these Bills have been regularly referred to the Court of France for payment. And this has done us Injury, by anticipating the Aid which France has been disposed to afford us, and at the same Time has justly alarmed and greatly embarrassed tho French ministry. These things it appears necessary that you should know, and your Legislature will undoubtedly draw the proper Inferences. They will see how much has been suffered by delaying to call forth the Resources of our own Country, and relying on the empty Bubbles of Hope, instead of the solid Foundations of Revenue—They will I trust clearly see, that all their Hopes and Expectations are narrowed down to what France may give or lend. But here, as in other cases, Delusion takes place of reality, we flatter ourselves with ideal Prospects, and are only convinced of our Folly by the fatal crisis of national Distress. In order that you may clearly understand the succor afforded by France, I enclose an account extracted from a State lately furnished to Congress by the Min- ister Plenipotentiary to His most Christian Majesty. You will observe that his majesty granted to tho United States a subsidy for the current year of six million Livres—And on a represen- tation of our Distresses, ho was pleased to become security for a Loan to be opened on account in Holland. And when it appeared that there was little probability of obtaining any money then in season, he further agreed that the sum to be borrowed, should be advanced to us, in the first Instance from the Royal Treasury—Thus the Gift and the Loan together amount to sixteen million Livres; which would if in this Country, be equal to only two million nine hundred and sixty two thou- sand nine hundred and sixty two Dollars, altho' at the rate of estimating Dollars in France, it is there equal to three million and forty seven thousand six hundred and nineteen Dollars. But at the highest rate of Exchange, which has hitherto taken place, this sum, if drawn for, would have amounted to no more than two million, five hundred and sixty thousand Dollars—I have been thus particular with Respect to the amount of this sum, because the difference of Currencies very often tend to deceive those to whom their real value is not a familiar Subject of attention. The enclosed account is in Livres, and the two first articles contain the total of the Grant and Loan, amounting to sixteen million Livres— The Remainder contains the Deductions to be made—Tho two first articles whereof, amounting to two million three hundred Thousand Livres, is for the payment of the Bills drawn on France, Spain and Hol- land, which I have already mentioned: the Produce of the sales hereof
Page 556
556 CALENDAR OF STATE 1781. has been applied to the public service, long before my appointment. October 19th The next article being two million of Livros is appropriated to the Pay- ment of Interest Bills, wherefore no Part of it can be applied to other purposes—The Fourth Article I need say nothing of here. as it has long been in the mouths of everybody. The Fifth and Sixth Articles are for those stores which were laden on board four Transports, by order of Colo: Lawrence, three of which have safely arrived, and the other put back in Distress. The Seventh Article is in consequence of the Loss of that valuable ship the Marquis De la Fayette, which contained a great number of Public Stores, the replacing of which is necessary for the Army and its operations, and which will amount to that sum. The last article contains the amount of monies deposited to answer my drafts, which have been made from Time to Time, and the Produce appropriated to the Services of the current year. On the whole there remains a Bal- lance of three million and sixteen thousand four hundred and ninety nine Livres. This with the sum brought by Colo: Lawrence, may be considered as of the value of one million dollars, which is the utmost, for it would exceed that only by twenty one thousand five hundred and seventy four Dollars if it were now in this Country. Thus you see the extent of that pecuniary succor which has filled the minds of all with such teeming Expectations, is narrowed down to one million of Dollars. But by the best Accounts and Estimates I have been able to procure, this war has hitherto cost about twenty millions annually. I do indeed expect that the future Expenditures will be greatly curtailed; but it must be remembered that the most rigid econ- omy has its Bounds, and that it cannot exist without the punctual Per- formance of those Engagements on which the first steps towards it must depend. As soon as the proper Estimates for the next year can be made out the Demands upon them will be stated, and I shall shortly advertise for contracts, as the most effectual mode of husbanding our Resources—I feel it my duty however, to observe, that a note, this day sent to Congress of some of my principal Engagements for money, amounts to upwards of two hundred thousand Dollars. Yet the calls for it from every Quarter are incessant. I would gladly quit the subject of Foreign supplies and expectations here. but it is necessary that the States should know all; and I should not answer the views of Congress, if I did not add, that the Court of France place the Aid now afforded us among the Number of those extraordinary Efforts which cannot be repeated. The Declaration that no more pecuniary assistance can be afforded to us, is as plain as Lan- guage will admit of, and although applications on the subject, may, and probably will be made, by our ministers to the Court of Verseilles, yet surely no prudent man would form any reliance on such applications, in the Face of such a pointed and express assurance to the contrary, and especially when to every Request, a short answer can be made, by ask- ing what we have done for ourselves—Sir, I must speak to you most
Page 557
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 557 plainly. While we do nothing for ourselves, we cannot expect the 1781. assistance of others. October 19th This is a very painful subject to dwell upon, but a consideration of great magnitude remains behind, and sooncr or later, it must come foward. Prudence therefore bids us examine it now, and provide for it in Season. The neglect of funding the public debt, has introduced a Prac- tice of issuing Loan Office Certificates, for the Interest due on other Loan Office Certificates. This I have absolutely forbidden, nor will I ever consent to it. Such accumulation of Debt, while it distresses the Public, and destroys its credit, by no means relieves the unfortunate Individual who is a public creditor. For if Revenue is not provided, increasing the certificates would only lessen their value. This would be such a fraud, as would stamp our national character with indelible marks of Infamy, and render us the Reproach and contempt of all mankind. It is high time to releive ourselves from the Infamy we have already sustained, and to rescue and restore the national credit. This can only be done by solid Revenue. Disdaining therefore, these little timid arti- fices, which, while they postpone the moment of Difficulty, only increase the Danger and confirm the Ruin, I prefer the open Declaration to all, of what is to be expected, and from whence it is to be drawn. To the public creditors therefore, I say, that untill the States provide Revenues for Liquidating the principal and Interest of the public Debt, they can- not be paid; and to the States, I say, that they are bound, by every principle which is held sacred among men to make that Provision. I have gone thro' the Task which I proposed to myself, in writing your Excellency this Letter, which I pray you to communicate to the Legislature of your State. I hope the Congress will soon be enabled to transmit their Requisitions, and I shall endeavour that these be as mod- erate as possible. But I must pray that every man, whether in public or private Life, will seriously consider the Importance of complying with these Requisitions. It is not by the brilliant successes of war, the splendour of conquest, or the shouts of Victory, that a wise ministry are to be affected. The superiority of national Resources, is the sure Ground on which to hope for success; and that superior Resource steadily and perseveringly applied, must eventually obtain its Objects. It is for these reasons. that the Enemy have hoped every Thing from the Derangement of our Finances; and on the other Hand, as Iam well informed, it is from the Establishment of a National Bank, and the forming of contracts to supply our armies, that they have the greatest apprehensions. By the Bounty of the Almighty, we are placed in a situation where our future Fate depends on our present conduct. We may be happy or miserable as we please. If we do our Duty now, the war will soon be brought to a close. If not, it may last for many years, and what will then be its Termination, it is not in human wisdom to foresee.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 558
558 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Thoroughly convinced that the Enemy must ask Peace, whenever we October 19th are in a condition vigorously to prosecute the war; and that we shall be in that condition, whenever our affairs are reduced to Order, and our credit restored; and that for these purposes, nothing more is necessary than a proper system of Taxation, I cannot avoid expressing my senti- ments on the subject, in all the warmth with which they flow from my Heart. I hope ami pray that tht; Facts. I have stated, may meet tha.t calm attention which is due to their Importance, and that such measures may be taken as shall redound to the Honour and Interest of our Country. With all possible respect, I have the Honor to be, Sir Your Excellency's most obt & humbly Servant, &c &c. Octobfir 20th GOV: NELSON TO THE DELEGATES IN CONGRESS. "Gentlemen, Camp before It is with infinite Pleasure I congratulate you on the Reduc- tion of York & Gloucester, & the capture of the whole British Army under Lord Cornwallis. On the 17th at the Request of Lord Coruwal- lis, Hostilities ceased, & yesterday the Garrison of York, amounting to upwards of two thousand nine hundred Effectives, rank & file, marched out & grounded their arms. Their Sick are about seventeen hundred. The Garrison of Gloucester, & the men Killed during the Seige, are computed at near two thousand, so that the whole Loss sustained hy the Enemy on this Occasion, must be between 6 & 7000 men. This Blow, I think must be a decisive one, it being out of the Power of G. B. to replace such a number of good Troops. His Excellency Geul. Washington's Letter will inform you of the nature of the Capitulation, to which I must refer you, not having yet procured a copy of the articles. Your Favours of Sept: 4th & 9th have been received. The Interrup- tion in our correspondence, that is, on my Part, has proceeded from acci- dent partly. Letters being ready for the last Post, but through Hurry not sent to the office, 'till too late. I have the honor to be gentlemen &c."
Page 559
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 559 COL: ARTHUR CAMPBELL TO COL: DAVIES, sending return* of militia, 1781.' their arms and accoutrements. October 20th Adds "There are next to nothing done towards raising regular Washington recruits, or furnishing cloathing and provision for the army, owing in part to the sudden condemnation of the Continental money, and the neglect or refusal of government to pay the militia for their various ser- vices last year, together with the time and attention necessarily spent to have our landed claims adjusted. The Northern Savages annoys us a little, and we are not altogether clear of apprehensions of danger from a disaffected party among the Cherokees. I am Sir, with Respect Your most obedient Servant. JNO: SIMONS (British) TO Gov: NELSON. October 20th Sends a letter from Col: Washington who he has the pleasure to say On board a "was perfectly recovered of the wound he lately received in So. Carolina." Tr*f.f £t He has come with a Flag of Truce to explain to his Excellency why York Town vessels loaded with Tobacco for Charleston had been captured, notwith- standing they had permits to go—This cannot be allowed except under permits from Naval Officers. He will take occasion at some other time to explain more fully. COL: D. FISHER TO COL: DAVIES, &c—expressing his gratitude for the October 20th concern manifested for him, in his late illness, by Col: Davies, and is happy to inform him "his disorder is considerably abated." Before this reply shall have reached him, "the grand and important Grcenesville capture of L'd Cornwallis &c &c will have been announced at Rich- mond," and he offers his congratulations on the occasion, with the hope Cornwallis that this will lead to an honorable termination of the war. He Should agree to act with Col: Jones, in executing the clothing law, no matter whether it shall be determined it shall be executed by the two Counties Greenesville & Brunswick in conjunction, or not. He had How he was not been heretofore able to explain the circumstances of his capture, caPture° parole & exchange &c—Some time since, he had ordered a small Post to be established at Hicks' Ford—sent videttes out northward, and towards Halifax, who regularly reported to him at that place. He had removed his valuables away, and slept from hip home so as not to run risk of capture: but upon returning prematurely on one occasion, he and * Not found.
Page 560
560 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. another gentleman were captured by Colo: Symes and a party with October 20th him"—He was forced to decide upon being paroled or being carried off— Col. Symes, This condition of things remained, until he had seen the terms of the Cartel signed by Capt: Cornwallis on his Lordship's behalf, & Col: Car- Capt. Corn- rington on Gen: Greene's, together with the agreement made "between Col Caprine- tho two Commissioners of Prisoners,—respecting the exchange of the ton 'militia"—By the terms of this, all the militia taken in the Southern Department, on both sides, were to be exchanged for each other &c. Considering himself embraced by these terms he had resumed the duties of his office, but having been informed by a friend that the northern Limits of the boundary of the Southern Department extended "to the line between partmcn" °" Carolina & Virginia only," he became uneasy, and now desires to know whether this information be correct or not. He apologizes for the trouble he had given Col: Davies in his frequent correspondence on this and other subjects, but has been the more tempted to do so, because his "letters were fraught with a benevolence uncommon to be met with in letters of business" &c. October 20th GOV: NELSON TO LD: CORNWALLIS. "My Lord, Camp before I have been informed that a number of the Refugees from k this State & also negroes are attempting to make their Escape, by get- ting on board the Bonnetta Sloop of war. As they will endeavour to be concealed from your Lordship's notice till the vessel sails, I have thought it necessary to make this Communication: to you, that you may take measures to prevent the State & Individuals from sustaining an Injury of this nature." October 20th BRIG: G. WEEDON TO Gov: NELSON. "D'rSir, Camp I am honored with yours of last night, and have given direc- Sewelrs fton9 respecting the negroes and Refugees, and would request to know what are to be done with them after they are seperated, as there will be no guards here. I also would be glad j'our Excellency would give some General directions respecting the sick and wounded that will be left here belonging to the British; of whom not less than 1500 will remain— Colo: West's Regiment from Fairfax will take charge of the prisoners that march as far as Fredericksburg, when he is to deliver them over to Genl: Lawson: I have ordered him to store his arms at that place, and would be glad to know how you would have the other arms disposed off. Are they to go to the Different Counties, or are they to be left here in the hands of the Conductor? I have the honor to be with high esteem Yr: Excellencies most ob. Serv't.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 561
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 561 P. S. I am very certain many of the negroes are secreted on board 1781. the vessels—I observed yesterday several waiting on the shore to be set October 20th on Board, and immediately sent Sentinels all along the Beach which report that many come down to get off. G. W." Gov: NELSON TO GENL: WEEDON. October 2lst "Sir, Your Favour of this morning, I have received. The Refugees you Camp before have taken may be sent over here & also the negroes, whose masters ""' live south of York River: and you will be pleased to direct some Person to give Passes to such as belong to the north side that they may imme- diately return to their owners. What we shall finally do with the sick & wounded Prisoners, I have not yet determined. For the present I shall order them to be guarded by the militia of the County. All the Arms, except the Guard Troops are to be delivered to the Conductor of Military Stores—What you observe respecting Negroes secreting them- selves on board the Vessels, I had been before informed of & had directed all the Vessels to be searched. Since writing the above I have thought it proper that the Refugees be paroled, except such as are notorious offenders. You will therefore oblige the least attrocious offenders to appear before the Governor & Council at Richmond on the 20th Nov:—the others you will send here." Gov: NELSON TO LORD CORNWALLIS. October 21st My Lord, I have received your verbal message respecting two Citizens Camp before of this State, the Rev'd Wm. Andrews & the Rev: Mr. Harrison, who York joined the British Army after its arrival here & who are now delivered up into the Hands of the civil Power. The Laws of this Country have fixed the mode of proceeding against Persons guilty of such Conduct, & we are ignorant of any Power which has a right to supercede their Force. By these Laws enacted by their own Representatives, they shall be fairly & impartially tried, & they must abide their Sentence—I am informed that Lieut: Col: Simooe has refused to deliver up a certain Christopher Robinson, who now bears a Commission in his Corps, but who deserted from the actual service of the State. The Articles of Capitulation cannot justify this Detention, & I shall by no means acquiesce in it. It is my wish to treat the men whom the Fortune of War has put into our Power, with that civility which (their situation claims) & it would give me Pain to be constrained in any Instance, to act in a different manner. 71
Page 562
562 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Your Lordship, in the case under consideration has, I imagine the October 21st Power of preventing it, & I flatter myself you will at once see the Pro- priety of exercising this Power. I hav &c. October 21st Gov: NELSON TO Gov: LEE, of Maryland. "Sir, Camp before When I wrote yesterday I forgot to observe to you, that the militia or of this State have Orders to conduct the British Prisoners, allotted for Frederick Town, only to the Borders of your State. Your Excellency will therefore be pleased to make the necessary Preparations for their Reception. I am not so well acquainted with the Geography of the upper Country, as to be able to inform you at what Ferry they will cross; but they will be marched by the most direct Route from Win- chester to Frederick Town. I have &c." October 21st COL: JOHN TODD TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. "May it please your Excellency," Lexington, I expect you will, long before this ^' reaches you, have an acct. of our proceedings in this Country, by Letters from Genl: Clarke sent by Major Crittenden. After so much assistance given to our Country by Government to enable us to act either offensively or defensively: after so much money expended up on the Western Fron- tiers, I feel desirous & anxious to remove any censures that our little Country may possibly labour under in the opinion of your Excellency & the world. I do not pretend to know, to whom the failure in the intended Expedition is owing, but the officers & men of these counties have persevered in rendering all possible assistance. By Letters from your Excellency's predecessor we were led to expect an early Expedition. 500 men with canoes &c were required from these Counties to be at the Falls by March last. The men required were drafted & set apart for the Expedition & the canoes chiefly made. during the course of the spring & summer the. Brails necessarily decreased. At a meeting of the Field Officers at Louisville summoned on Genl: Clarke's arrival the beginning of September, we found the strength of the j.hree Counties to amount to only 760 men. We offered the General two thirds of them, if he chose to go on an Expedition, but rather advised him to proceed in garrisoning the Ohio upwards, agree- ably to a recommendation of the Assembly, or at least to attempt nothing more than a small Expedition up the Miami. it was our opinion, if but one Garrison sd. be built, it sh'd be at the mouth of Ken- tucky as the most valuable post. if there sh'd be afterwards troops to
Page 563
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 563 spare, another sh'd be at the mouth of Licking opposite the big Miami, 1781. at Lawrence's Creek or Limestone Run: but we seemed unanimous that October 21st the mouth of Kentucky, in a war with the Western & Lake Indians, was a post of the utmost consequence. The sentiments of Genl: Clarke were different from ours in this Respect. He imagined the Falls to be a Post of the first Importance, being as he always expressed it, the Key of the Country. As I wish to see military service always properly husbanded, I beg leave to offer a few reasons to your Excellency, to shew that keeping our principal post at the Falls is injudiciously wasting of our strength. 1st. The situation of the Mouth of Kentucky is more in the Road of the Enemy in their war Excursions to any part of this Country, than any part of the Ohio below that place, a few Settlements in Jefferson County only excepted. 2ndly. The River Kentucky wd. afford a ready and cheap transporta- tion of provisions which so abound in the upper Settlements, whereas if the main army staid at the Falls, an out-post at the Mouth of Kentucky wd. always kept close in Garrison, & being in continual terror could afford no protection towards transporting the provisions & rather be a trap for the exposed watermen. 3dly. The Mouth of Kentucky must be much healthier than the Falls, being free from the stagnated pools which overspread the flat lands near the Falls & which every year kill or incapacitate for service great num- bers of our Soldiers. To say that the Falls is the Key to this Country, seems to me unin- telligible. It is a strong Rapid, which may in an age of commerce, be a considerable obstruction to the navigator, but as we have no Trade, we neither need, nor have any keys to Trade. If it be understood in a Mil- itary sense, I think it a mistaken appellation, as the Enemy can & do pass with as little molestation just above the Falls & just below the Falls, as they could on any other part of the River. On parting with Genl: Clarke we expected to furnish assistance in building the Garrison at the Mouth of Kentucky from the Militia, but expected it to be built principally by the Regulars & wholly garrisoned by them, since which a Requisition has come to Colo: Logan and myself to furnish Tools & build the Garrison, and afterwards defend it by men drawn from the Body of our militia until he sh'd have Leisure to relieve them, which we are satisfied wd. not happen in any short time. On consulting with Col: Logan we concluded to defer building the Garrison, because we had no intrinching Tools, no professed Engineers, no money & we conceived it to belong to men who draw constant pay to garrison it. The result of our consultation we sent to the General, with a promise to lay the matter before your Excellency or the General Assembly. If the State had no Troops on pay, we should have no cause to remonstrate, but when they have Troops, and those Troops kept in the more interior & secure posts: when so much has already been
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 564
564 CALENDAR OF STATE 1781. expended: to augment the Expence by putting the militia on duty at a October 21st place distant from 60 to 120 miles from home, we conceive to be impoli- tick & contrary to the opinion of your Excellency, to whom we submit the matter. A Recommendation for Justices will be handed your Excellency by our delegates, also for several militia officers. If it is not inconsistant with the practice, I would wish for a few Blank Commissions to be sent to the Court. Owing to so great a distance from the Seat of Govern- ment, our officers loose generally half a year in the date of their com- missions. I have the honor to be, with the greatest Respect— Your Excellency's, most ob't & very h'ble Serv't." October 21st GOV: NELSON TO "THE COMMISSARY AT FREDERICKSBURG." "Sir, Camp before This Day the British Prisoners were marched off from York. In or about seven or eight Days they will pass through Fredericksburg. They will there draw some Days Provisions, which you will therefore have ready to be delivered to them. The number of men will be little short of six thousand." October 21st JNO: TODD JNR: AND PATTERSON TO Gov: NELSON. Lexington, There are not magistrates enough in the County to hold a Court. Kv- They recommended certain persons last April, but now request that Nath'l Hart, Wm. Bennet & Riehd. Young be omitted, because they have left the County—Suggests that Capt: J. Constant, be put on the Com- mission—he is known to Major Swearingin, the Fayette Delegate. October 21st COLO. AUTH. THORNTON TO GOV: NELSON. Gloucester On his way to that place he was taken ill, consequently did not arrive until Wednesday evening—Has been two days trying to see him, but "the French General positively forbid my crossing over to York, tho! I informed him I had particular business with you"—Requests directions as to his proceeding "to the collecting the Grain, Fother & Hay &c." concludes, "permit me to congratulate your Excellency on the happy end of the Seige & beleive me to be with the greatest Esteem."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 565
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 565 CHAS: DICK TO COL: WM. DAVIES. 1781. October 22d He is anxious to Know whether the Factory is to be supported—This Frederic'sb'g cannot be done without money, a moderate supply of which may answer the purpose and thus be of benefit to the State. Has already sent a return of the arms, made, repaired & received during the last month, but cannot expect much to be done in future—concludes, "the workmen leave me to job it about to get a little cash to cloth themselves and sup- port their Familys; besides, the Beef they are obliged to eat is little better than carrion, which they will not put up with, being never used to such before. We got it as the Commissary's creatures will please to deliver it; That Department wants much to be looked into." M. DE TARL£, TO Gov: NELSON. October 23d "Sir, The reasons which induced your Excellency to undertake the sup- Williamsb'g plies of provisions for the Army on their Arrival in this State no longer existing, I wish you to lay open the markets, and permit the Peeple to sell freely to the Army. the Count de Rochambeau intends to have of every Kind of Provisions in magazines, so that he may be able to march at the shortest notice to any point, when it may be necessary. I shall direct my Agents, Messrs. Wadsworth & Carter to make purchases of your Agents of such Provisions & Forage as they may have to dispose of, and they will Always prefer them, at the same time I do not expect my Agents to be restrained from making such Purchases of others as 1 shall direct, as it will be impossible to execute the duties of my Office and assure the service of the Army under any restraints. experience has taught and the world are convinced that open markitts and free Lib- erty to individuals to sell, are the only sure means of supplying an Army, and tho' temporary regulations may be at some times usefull, in General, restraining the Subject and preventing his disposeing of his property in his own way, causes a withholding, and often real scarcity. I am con- vinced that the marketts will be well supplied, when your Excellency shall make it Known that the Army of France will purchase with ready money such things as they want of those who bring them to market, and that no interruption will be given to them by impress or Seizure. I have the honor to be Your Excellency's mo: Obt & hble Servant."
Page 566
666 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: CHAS. DABNEY TO COL: DAVIES. October 24th "Dear Col: Camp near The State Troops being almost naked, I have sent Capt: or Brown to you with a Return of tho Regmt. to draw clothing for them. I do not expect to draw any thing more for the six months' men than shoes—without them they will not be able to render any service to the State. I am Sir, Yr: obedient Servt." October 26th EPH: BLAINE, COM: GENL: OF PURCHASES, TO Gov: NELSON. York Town The bearer Mr. Jackson is the Commissary of Issues to attend the Prisoners, and has letters to Maj: Foray th requesting that some one may be appointed to make provision for them at the places of their destina- tion—He now requests that Orders may be issued to "the County Com- missarys" to furnish tho necessary supplies, until measures can be taken for their permanent support. October 26th CHRIS: CALVERT TO South Quay Having had no copy of Laws for twelve months, desires information upon certain matters—viz— "Duty on Goods. Do on Tobacco. The Inspectors wish to know how they are to act respecting Depreci- ation. What the Na. Officer is to receive for taking list of Seamen to be returned to the War office—I daily expect some lime Juice & by first opportunity will get your opinion on it. When is the duty payable by the Importers?" October 26th THOS: ANDERSON DEP: C. PROVISIONS, TO COL: DAVIES. ****** Buckingham Having heard a "Magazine of Provisions" is to be established in that part of the County, he will be glad to become "Director of the Post." The Houses at Irving's will do for this purpose, being convenient to all the Posts on the River, to Charlottesville, Barracks, Staunton, New Lon- don, and to the Southern Army, there being direct roads "immediately from the Store" to all those places. There is an abundance of timber to make barrels for the salted meats—It would be well to have canoes
Page 567
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 567 built and kept there to transport stores down the River, and to collect 1781. forage, of which there is an abundance near the landings—In addition October 26th to this, should the lately captured prisoners be lodged either at Char- lottesville or Staunton, they could be supplied, being 30 miles from the former and 40 from the latter place—He is the more anxious to secure this position "as the Comm'r for a County has so much busiuess in riding" that he cannot stand it, and has already requested the Com: Genl: to appoint another in his place. W. FONTAINE TO . October 26th l< Dear Sir, Major Penn gives me an opportunity, the first I have met with, Richmond since the glorious event of congratulating you on the surrender of York, which I do with all imaginable cordiality. I had the happiness to see that British Army which so lately spread dismay & desolation thro' all our Country, march forth on the 20th instant, at 3-o-clock, thro' our whole army, drawn up in two lines, at about twenty yards distance, & return disrobed of all their terrors, so humbled & so struck at the appear- ance of our Troops, that their knees seemed to tremble, and you could not see a platoon that marched in any order. Such a noble figure did our army make, that I scarce know which drew my attention most. You could not have heard a whisper or seen the least motion throughout our whole line, but every countenance was erect, & expressed a serene cheerfulness. Cornwallis pretended to be ill, & imposed the mortifying duty of leading forth the captives on General -O'Hara. Their own officers acknowledged them to be the flower of the British troops, yet 1 do not think they at all exceeded in appearance our own, or the French. The latter, you may be assured are very different from the ideas formerly inculeated in us, of a people living on frogs & coarse vegetables. Finer troops I never saw. His Lordship's defence, I think, was rather feeble—His surrender was eight or ten days sooner than the most san- guine expected, tho' his force & resources were much greater than we conceived. He had at least a fortnight's provisions, & 1000 barrels of powder left, beside a magazine, that 'tis supposed was blown up with design during tho negotiation for tho surrender. Tho whole of tho prisoners of war amount to 6,800, exclusive of sailors and marines, which with the shipping belong to the French, & the refugees, merchants & followers of their army. Tho shipping of every sort is about seventy sail, tho' a great many are sunk. Of brass ordnance we have taken eighty odd—of iron 120—muskets, 7313 fit for service, beside a great number in unopened boxes & of old arms. Of horse about 300 accou- tred: there must be more horse accoutrements, but I have not seen a par- ticular return from Gloucester whore tho horse lay. The military chest amounts to only 800 guineas. Merchants' stores are subject to the pre-
Page 568
568 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. emption of our army at a reasonable price for such articles as suit October 26th them; the remainder they are allowed three months to effect the sale of, then are to give their parole and clear out. Tories are subject to be treated by our laws. The 20th of next month has been appointed for that purpose. A small proportion of officers are to remain with the prisoners, the rest are to be paroled to New-York. A flag ship is allowed .Cornwallis, to carry him to New York, thence I believe he goes home. His flag ship is not to be searched—The officers retain their side arms & baggage & the soldiers their knapsacks. They marched out with drums muffled & colors furled & crossed. All property taken from inhab- itants by the British is liable to be claimed by them. In consequence Master Tarleton met with a most severe mortification, the day before yesterday. The Hero was prancing thro' the streets of York on a very fine, elegant horse, and was met by a spirited young fellow of the country, who stopped him, challenged the horse, & ordered him instantly to dismount. Tarleton halted & paused awhile thro' confusion, then told the lad, if it was his horse, he supposed he must be given up, but insisted to ride him some distance out of town to dine with a French officer. This was more, however, than Mr. Giles was disposed to indulge him in, having been forced, when he & his horse were taken, to travel good part of a night on foot at the point of a bayonet—he therefore refused to trust him out of his sight & made him dismount in the midst of the street crowded with spectators. Many such instances have since happened on the road. The people who have been insulted, abused, nay, ruined by them, give them no quarter—I have not seen the articles of capitulation, but have given you the substance, as well as I can recollect from such as have read them. We are surely to have a garrison at York,—whether French or Ameri- can was not known, when I left York, the day before yesterday—Some troops are to go to the Southward. 'Tis supposed the French fleet & most of their troops will go to the West Indies—Tho' all is conjecture & will probably remain so to all, but the Count de Grasse & Gen: Washington. The General had been aboard the Admiral for some days past, as I came away something of consequence I suspect, was projecting between them. The troops at Portsmouth are levelling, to prevent the British taking post there. Nothing certain of a British fleet. They have lost, 'tis said, Bengali & Madras in the East Indies, by the powerful exertions of Hyder Ali, in favour of the French. Cornwallis, I am well assured, pre- vious to his surrender, acknowledged to the Secretary, that the Capture of his Army would put an end to the war. The same sentiment was expressed to me by two of his officers, & I learn from an intelligent inhabitant of York, generally prevailed among them. That General Lesly with all the crew, perished in the passage from Wilmington to Charles Town, in the Blonde Frigate in ore est omnium. I certainly embark for Europe the soonest a passage can be had, per- haps three or four weeks hence, tho' I believe I shall be forced to take
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 569
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 569 the West Indies in the way & probably may winter there. My love to 1781. my good sisters & families. My best respects to Mr. Armstead & all my October 26th relations and friends in your country—Farewell—farewell! The good Doctor, Parson Cole & all—I have commissioned a gentleman, to get Mr. Holmes a hat from York. Mrs. Walker has recovered her two negroes, & my mother her one. The French fleet & all our troops are under sailing & marching orders. If Major Holston is with you, let him know Mr. Burrows from his state has his servant that he wrote about. I enclose two yards of ribbon for my Sister Sarah & two for Sister Mary, or in her absence, little Bess.—trophies from York—Had the stores been open, I would have dealt more largely, tho' they are strictly guarded, & general orders against any thing being sold 'till the Army is supplied—All health & happiness to you and yours, & all with you. Your affectionate friend & Servant. &c &c. Jos: HOLMES* TO COL: WM. DAVIES. October 26th "Dear Sir, I have this day Officially received information that five & Winchester twenty Hundred of the prisoners lately captured at York are allotted to be sent to this Place, and a sufficient Guard to be furnished from the Counties, Frederick, Berkeley, Hampshire, and Shannandoh, which can not consist of much less than 350 men—the Governour wrote Colo. John Smith on the Subject of Procuring the Guard, and giving all the assist- ance he possibly could in tho procuring provisions, but as he is not in the County, that business falls upon Colo. David Kennedy & myself—as the calls of my Office as Commissary of Pris'rs will require me to be cheifly on the spot, I have determined to take the command of the Guard, should it be agreeable to the Executive, and have made bold to trouble you to communicate the matter to them, which will much oblige, Sir, Your most obt. Hble Servt. COL: Jos: HOLMES TO Gov: NELSON. October 26th His letter to Col: John Smith relative to providing quarters for the Winchester Prisoners to be sent to that place had been shewn to him. The Bar- racks he had built last spring ncar Winchester will hold with conve- nience about eight hundred men only, and it will be impossible to have cabins built for twenty-five hundred by the people in tho neighborhood *Col: Holmes was on the 1st November following, appointed to the Command of this guard. 72
Page 570
570 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. in as much as the workmen have never been paid for the cabins already October 26th erected—He suggests, as the most eligible way, that the Prisoners be made to build them, themselves. October 26th Wm. McCraw, A. D. Q. Master, enters complaint against John Buck- Peytonsburg ley Com: of Prov: for Pittsylvania, as being "a clog to every branch of public business" depending on him. October 27th OLIVER POLLOCK TO Gov: NELSON, expressing his great surprise and mortification that his Bills on the State of Virginia, drawn in favor of Mr. Daniel Clark, for the large sums advanced by himself, and by which alone the Troops and Military Posts in the Western Country had been supported, and that region thereby conquered and secured, had been dishonored on the ground that he (Pollock) was not the accredited Agent of the State. New Orleans Sets forth the distressed state of his family in consequence of these advances—Is constrained however to make every effort to recover his dues, in view of the ruin in which he and his creditors must be involved, unless ho can succeed. October 29th COL: THOS: NEWTON TO COL: DAVIES, making enquiry as to where to send the cannon, now removing from South Quay to Nansemond River. Norfolk If they are to go up Jas: River large open flats will do, but if up the Bay decked vessels will be necessary—They will all be at the Landing shortly, as he has ordered "three more carriages and 20 oxen"—Hopes not to be Kept long from his home in town, where ho desires to enjoy himself as formerly, and wishes not to put the State to any greater expence than shall be necessary to finish this work. October 30th Col: John Jones, "most heartily" congratulates the Governor "on our Brunswick late glorious success at York." Under the late Orders ho has kept one <-'°' fourth of the militia of the County constantly in the field, but has lately heard that his Excellency had since ordered their discharge, except seventy five; not having rec'd any instructions since the siege of York, he feels obliged to trouble his Excellency for information on this subject; whether he is to send any more men, to what place, and in what num- bers.
Page 571
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 571 JNO: SWANN TO COL: DAVIES, informing him, that there is a large 1781. quantity of "seconds & shorts on hand," which for want of barrels October 30th could not be sent down, and lying in bulk so long is spoiled; also some flour hid while the Enemy was up, got wet and damaged. Recommends it all be sold—Col: White's Regiment of Dragoons had Powhatan nsumed a large quantity of flour he sent' enemy were threatening his neighborhood. consumed a large quantity of flour he sent "over James River when the °' Colo: Charles T. Lewis, enclosing "Return of clothing, ammunition October 31st & arms"—Regrets the clothing "fell into the hands of the British." Albemarle DAVID Ross TO THE GOVERNOR. October 3Ut "Sir, It was not untill yesterday that General orders were issued for York opening the stores—each officer in the army is to receive £20's worth of goods. I thought it was your Excellency's sentiments then, that the State officers (not upon Continental Estab'mt) should be placed upon the same footing, and in consequence of what passed between you & Genl: Wash- ington at parting. I am now purchasing as many necessaries as will put them on the same footing with the rest of the army. I cannot take upon myself to deliver these Goods without your orders. The officers are very anxious to take them here, as it will save them much trouble I shall be much obliged to you for your directions upon this point. I find among the traders here some men who are really objects of compassion, and 'tis from motives of humanity that I trouble your Excellency about them, long convinced that they are inoffensive in their conduct—One of them, a Mr. Hustle lived long iu this County & left it ab: 20 yrs: ago—His misfortunes in course of this War has reduced him to Bankruptcy. he wishes to have his parole extended into the county where he formerly lived & has some property. A Mr. Snodgrass is in similar circumstances—two or three others are sick. the others I will say nothing for—If your Excellency will be pleased to extend the paroles of these unfortunate people I shall esteem it a favour—By the inclosed letter* you'll see Genl: Washington's senti- ments relative to it. I find Mr. Newton has furnished but little value to the French Fleet. Mr. Morris has not delivered much to the Agents of the Army—I am like to be much distressed to pay for the two ships I purchased. *Not found.
Page 572
572 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. The French Fleet are all hurry & confusion, geting ready to go out. October 31st The British Fleet are off the Capes 26. Sail of the line, 10 frigates, with some transports having on board 5,000 troops. I write this in utmost haste & have only time to add, that I am with the greatest respect, Your most humbl. Servant." October 31st WM. CHRISTIAN Comm'r encloses to Col: Wm. Davies, list of estray horses, with valuation thereof—viz. Charles City "One sorrel horse taken from a negroe—16 years old—praised to £600 One sorrel do: from John Harwood—praised to £4000." October — SAML: JONES, A. Q. master enclosing to David Jameson, the aggregate amount of Cash paid, under orders of Gov: Nelson for special purposes from Aug: 5th to Oct: 20th—1781—viz £1.614.209— October — "The Reply of the British Merchants and Traders, that are within the Garrisons of York and Gloucester, to the proposals made by Colo: Tim Pickering, Quarter Master General, for the purchase of such articles of merchandize, as may be wanted for the use of the Allied Army." "The Allied Army agreeable to the Articles of Capitulation, is undoubtedly to have the preemption of the Goods and Merchandize within the Garrisons of York and Gloucester; but untill the quantity and quality proposed to be taken, is known; as well as the mode of furnishing that quantity, we cannot with propriety establish any rule, by which to fix a general price. If all the goods on hand are taken, one hundred pr: cent Sterling on the invoices exhibited will be accepted—but if only a part is wanted, as by that means our goods will be dissorted, a higher advance will be expected. The goods purchased in America, and where there is no Sterling invoice, shall be extended in Sterling by two persons, mutually chosen for that purpose. Our Situation requires that the payment should be immediate and in Specie at the rate of twenty one Shillings Sterg. pr: Guinea, or four shillings and BIX pence Sterling a Spanish Dollar, but if it is found incon- venient to pay in Specie, we will accept payment in Virginia Tobacco at the following prices viz: For what is inspected at the warehouses on upper James & York rivers, twenty Shillings Sterling per hundred, and
Page 573
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 573 for what is inspected on Rappahannock, above Port Royal, and on Potow- 1781. mack above Aquia Creek, at the rate of Sixteen Shillings Sterling pr: October — Hundred, provided it is merchantable, and of the present and last inspec- tions, to be- delivered at York Town, in the course of six months with Interest, at the rate of five pr: cent: pr: Annum, from the day of sale, and liberty to transport the Same, under the sanction of a Flag of truce to New York, from whence we presume vessels must be sent to carry it off. Certificates shall be granted by persons, duly authorized to each Trader, for the Goods he shall furnish, entitling him to receive payment, as above mentioned. Should the transaction not be compleated, before the time allowed the British merchants to remain in the United States, expires; or should any of them incline to leave the States after the delivery of their Goods, they shall be allowed to appoint Attornies in fact, to negotiate the said business for them, who shall have power & authority to transact the same to the full extent & meaning of this Contract; and permission should also be granted for some of them to return with the Vessels that are to receive the Tobacco. In behalf of the British merchants in the Garrisons of York and Gloucester. JAMES ROBINSON DAVID TELFAIR— JOHN McCULLOCH JOHN LICKLY." (Copy.) JNO: PIERCE TO THE GOVERNOR. Novem'r lst Having never been informed as to where the Army will winter, or whether it will remain in Virginia, he is at a loss how to proceed, in regard to the large amounts of provisions on hand. The lateness of the season will require that the beeves be Killed and Salted, if salt can be gotten, especially as the Continental service will probably want no more alive. He therefore requests instructions on this head, and whether he is to send provisions to Winchester for the Pris- oners there.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 574
574 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: FRANCIS TAYLOR TO COL: WM. DAVIES, in reply to his of the 10th Novem'r 1st August, not received until "some time last month," and giving the information, "that the soldiers of the late Regt. of Guards were enlisted, Some to Guard the Convention prisoners during their stay in Virginia, others only for their stay in Albemarle, and some for lim- ited terms. Orange Co. The last of them were discharged at Watkins' Ferry the 9th June, where the Prisoners crossed into Maryland." "As to the return of Arms, The Q. Master accounts that 423 were sent to Colo. Muter at Richmond last Fall. 162 left at Barracks when we marched & 150 Returned to the Q. Master at Winchester & I believe were put into the hands of drafts." A few carried off by deserters, and some lost by carelessness of soldiers. Novem'r 1st James Price informs Col: Davies, there "are near three hundred stand Staunton of old muskets in Colo. Sampson Mathews' cellar." put there by Capt Bohannan in June last—They will be ruined by the rust unless removed. (Circular.) Novem'r 2d JOHN PlERCE COMR. STATE OF VA. TO COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. "Sir, Richmond It is absolutely necessary that returns shuld be made by the Com- missioners, as soon as the present month expires. You will therefore prepare your Accts. from the 8th of Sept: to the end of the present month and send to me as soon as possible, after the expiration thereof. Mr. John Brown also requests you will make an immediate return to him, of your proceedings before the 8th of Sept:—I herewith send you a proper plan for your returns, one of which is for the receivables, and the other for the deliveries—Seperate from these, you will send your cash acct., attended with the vouchers for the delivery of the provisions & ca. collected by you. You will also send an acct. of the claims, if any, for assistants, Cart or Waggon hire, Flour Barrels &c, in order that pro- vision may be made, to discharge the same, as soon as possible, and must intreat you not to fail making your returns agreeable to this requisition, so that I may be able to make timely returns to the Board of Auditors. You will distinguish the Specifick Grain in your returns. I am, Sir, your most obt."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 575
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 575 Col: G. Carrington, makes return to Col: Davies of the military stores, 1781. recruits and clothing of the County—Incomplete, because Colo. Skip- Novem'r 2d with who rec'd part of the articles was absent in the service, and could Cumberland not supply the items—"There are two delinquents, one for a pr: of shoes, who is dead, however they will be collected, the other for two pr: stockings, for which a prosecution is commenced, and am in hopes of recovering the stockings soon." CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Novem'r 2d "Dear Sir, I have collected all the Arms &c left by the militia at this York Town place and Seawells in Gloucester. these at the latter place are without a guard, deposited in a Dairy, and have been waiting impatiently for orders what to do with them." * * * * * . * "The captured arms are now on their way to Richmond—Hoping that you will be speedy in your determination, I am Dear Sir Your mo: ob. Servant. P. S. The number of arms are 2000 at the forementioned places— Capt: Bowne has gone up with the escort to the prisoners, and a con- ductor to each division, to dispose of the arms &c—as he may be directed." COL: THOS: NEWTON JNR: TO Gov: NELSON, AT RICHMOND. Novem'r 2d He has offered to sell all the cattle collected by the Commissioners, to Norfolk the French Agent for their Fleet, but they decline taking any more— Asks for instructions what to do with them as they "are wasting daily & expect many will die—he has sold some "too poor to be eaten"— Continues, "Many cattle were brought in here & sold by the refugees which (I) have taken from the purchasers & added to the publick stock. I am not certain whether it was right, but am sure it was justice, as it encouraged the refugees to plunder and bring them in, having a ready sale. Will your Excely: be pleased to give directions that they be taken by the Commiss'rs & either sold for the benefit of the publick, or let them be made use of by the troops stationed here. the horses also left by the Enemy will perish if they are not sold, if they were disposed of as they are taken they wou'd bring something to the public, but now they are pastured & will starve—all too poor for present uses."
Page 576
576 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CHAS. DICK TO COL: DA VIES. Novem'r 2d "Sir, Frederic'sb'g *I received your favour of the 27th Octo'r, and am sorry matters are so deranged that no money is to be had. there is nothing almost, but what may be done with it, and at reasonable Rates, but without, It is very Difficult—I have however got some workmen and others, still to trust mo, giving them an absolute assurance, they shall not be put off with certificates. Altho' our late Success has been great, we neverthe- less shou'd be prepared for the Thieves in case they come again. I received an Order of the 21st Sopt'r to deliver all the Repair'd arms to Genl: Spotswood's Q'r Master. I am happy he has not call'd for one musket yet, as a number of men and Horses have been Screen'd from military services by that Cloud Cap'd Legion, in the Time of our greatest distress." ****** have the pleasure to be with the greatest respect Sir, you most obed., H'ble Servant." Novem'r 2d PETITION OF WM. SHORT TO THE EXECUTIVE to be examined for a License to Practice Law—with certificates from Thos: Jefferson and Geo: Wythe respectively, that they have examined the said Wm. Short, "at the desire of the Executive," and report that he is fully qual- ified &c. Mr. Wythe says "From an intimate acquaintance of some standing with Mr. W. Short, and from several exercises I have heard him perform, I am fully persuaded, and accordingly report it, as my opinion, that he is duly qualified to practice the law as an Attorney." Novem'r 3d COL: G. CARRiNGTON JNR:, informs Col: Davies, that under the 2 pr: ct: Tax, about 300 lbs Hemp remains on hand unsold. Cumberland The Comm'rs will be obliged for instructions, how to dispose of it,— ®°' there being a sufficiency of money raised to pay the bounties of the soldiers in the County. Novem'r 3d COL: JAMES BARBOUR TO THE EXECUTIVE, desiring to know whether the orders requiring one fourth the militia to be kept in the field are still in force. CulpeperCo. He has had no instructions since he ': march'd the last detachment" from his County to York, or since the surrender of Cornwallis, and awaits further instructions before the 10th of Nov: when another fourth are ordered to meet.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 577
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 577 MAJOR J. NELSON TO Gov: NELSON—af'OffleyHo:" 1781. i< r» t Novem'r 3d "Dear Sir, Your Indisposition, when I was at your house the other Day, prevented my mentioning to you many things, relative to my Corps, the situation of which at present is truly distressing: The men of which it is composed, are chiefly Recruits & naked as they generally are, this being the Time when they should receive their Winter Clothing; add to this, the general want of Clokes & Blankets, without which they must starve at Winchester: but the cause of my uneasiness for them princi- pally arises from the appearance off the Small-Pox, in the natural way: two of the men were left very ill below, with it—three have broke out since they came up, & many others have the symptoms of it, so I fear we shall not only spread that Disorder along the Road, but probably loose many valuable men. The Gleeb House, near Hanover Town, at which we are stationed is so detached from any other Plantation, that I shall put all the sick men at it, and with your approbation will have those who have not had it, inoculated." * * * "I am Dear Sir, Yr: afft: kinsman." CAPT: NATH'L TERRY, K)TH VA. REGT. TO COL: WM. DAVIES, praying for Novem'r 4th his pay, not having had "a farthing of his wages since Nov'r 1779. Is "a prisoner and a suffering soldier." COL: J. SYME informs Col: Davies, that Colo: Edmonds, in charge of Novem'r 4th prisoners from York had left two hundred & forty of them disabled, in New Castle the County, with orders to him to furnish a guard over them to Win- chester. But ho is unable to get arms or ammunition for the guard, or scarcely a wagon,—ox-carts must be used—was not aware, before this, how completely the people had given up their arms for the army—These have not been returned since the surrender at York. ROB'T ANDREWS, SEC'Y, TO THE GOV'R. Novem'r 6th Ordering John Scott Esq'r of Albemarle to discontinue collecting Bichmond wheat &c—to prepare for public use what he has on hand, unless the People will consent to take it back. He will cease making contracts for any more grain or flour. 73
Page 578
578 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. DAVID JAMESON TO Gov: NELSON. Novem'r 6th "D'r Sir, York Agreeable to your desire, and at the request of Gen: Washington, I wrote to the Comd'g Officer of Gloucester County, the 31st ult: for 300 militia to take charge of such of the British in Glou'r Town as were able to march to Fred'sburg: At the same time I desired Maj: Clai- borne to make use of the powers given him, by you and impress all the River Craft & their hands, in Pamunkey and Mattapony to come imme- diately to Gloucester, to transport such of the sick & wounded as could not travel by Land to Todds—And wrote to the Com'd'g Officers of King William & King & Queen to furnish such a number of their militia as Mr. Claiborne's Agents should ask for as guards to the vessels, not exceeding twenty from each County. On the 3d inst: Genl: Washington found it convenient to put such of the prisoners as could then travel under guard of a Regt. of Regulars. & they marched that day for Fredbg: as you will see by the Gonl's let- ter w'th—None of the Flats or other Vessels have yet appeared, which I am very sorry for. Count Rochambault is anxious to get the sick away. that he may send part of his Troops to Gloucester—And I think it right before the French Fleet leaves the Bay, lest some British ships shuld then make a visit to York River. I should have been at Richmond by this time had I not waited to see the sick & wounded moved—I now fear the business will take up too much time, and wish a quarter master, or some person prop- erly authorized may be sent immediately to attend to it. I imagine you will give directions to the Commissary to lay in provs. at Todds for the Sick & the Guards, and give every other order you may think neces- sary on the occasion. To-morrow the Comm'y of Prisoners is to report how many will in a day or two, be able to march—If that number is small, as I fear it will, I shall discharge the militia, ordered to assemble in Gloucester, and shall then set out for Richmond—I have the honor to be, with the highest respect & esteem Yr: Excellency's mo: obt Servant." Novem'r 6th JOSEPH HOLMES DEP: COM: GENL op PRISONERS TO COL: DA VIES, in reply to his of the 12th ult: just received. Winchester He has never received a prisoner from Major Rose, answering the description given,—and only 125 altogether, British and Hessians, and two S. Carolina Loyalists—About thirty Tories on their mareh had escaped—He had had also a considerable number of North Carolina militia who had been in the service of the enemy—About twenty of them died
Page 579
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 579 at that place, and the remainder were sent with the Cowpen Prisoners 1781. to Lancaster in Pennsylvania. Novem'r 6th The Prisoners taken at York, allotted to Winchester had arrived the previous Evening—Concludes "I am much Harrased by the Officers to find them Quarters at the Expence of the U. States—this I have refused them, as I find by enquiring at some Officers of ours that was Prisrs. in Charles Town, that they were oblig'd to find their own Quarters—those who could not get into the Barracks. the number of Pris'rs is about 21 hundred, exclusive of 40 officers that are now here for the purpose of witnessing the treatment of the Privates—it will require 100 Cabbins more than is built—I could have them cheifly done by the Prisrs., could tools and waggons be furnished. that seems to be impossible, unless I can do it at my own expence, as no person here will Trust the Public with a shilling's worth, and paper moncy has no Kind of circulation in this side the blue ridge. About 1000 of the Prisoners are oblig'd to camp out. I wish the Executive would take the matter into their considera- tion—Excuse this hasty scrawl and believe me to be, with the greatest respect Sir, Yr: most ob't, most H'blo Serv't." CIRCULAR, SENT BY ORDER "TO GEN: LAVTSON, COL: R. H. LEE, & COL: Novem'r 6th BARBOUR." "Sir, There being no longer a necessity for making use of extraordinary Richmond means for the Subsistence of the Army, the Governor has directed mo to express to you his acknowledgments for the assistance you have given to the Public, at a Time when it was much wanted & also to inform you that the common method of obtaining supplies, arc sufficient to answer all Purposes. He requests the Favour of you to make him acquainted with the different Articles collected under your Directions, not yet delivered. By Order &c R. A—" To GENL: WEEDON— Novem'r 6th "Sir, It being thought proper that ye British Sick, left in Gloucester Richmond should be immediately removed as high up as Frederickshurg, the Gov- ernor requests the Favour of you to have suitable Houses provided in that Place for their Reception. I am Sir &c R. A—"
Page 580
580 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. GEO: WEBB TO COL: DAVIES. Novem'r 6th "Sir, Council Representation has been made by some Gentlemen of the Assembly, am er ^&t & considerable number of the British prisoners lately captured at York, are roving at large about the County of Hanover, to the great prejudice and annoyance of the citizens, and that twenty or more of them (invalids) are left in an open barn within two miles of the Hospital at Hanover Town, without a guard or necessary provision made for them; The members present earnestly request Colo: Da vies to take such measures as he shall judge best for remedying those evils and the future safe keeping the prisoners of war, untill they shall be delivered at Win- chester. I am Sir, (Copy) Your obed't Servant." Novem'r 6th CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. York He has been impatiently waiting for orders, as to how he shall dispose Garrison Qf tke arms left by the disbanded militia—has them all collected at Jos: Seawells in Gloucester—The Governor left without giving him any orders, and the memorandum given to Mr. Andrews who followed his Excellency having as yet received no attention, he is urgent in desiring some instructions should be given him at once—He is particularly desirous to be removed from that place where he is not allowed to draw forage &c., and the paper money being "ruinously depreciated," he is unable to meet his necessary expences—Is disposed to issue these arms to the neighboring Counties which are "entirely destitute,'' but will await further instructions by return of Mr. Frazer the bearer of this. Novem'r 6th COL: CHRISTIAN FEBIGER TO COL: DAVIES. "D'rColo: Cumberland On my arrival here, I received your very obliging Favour Old C. H. tlateci W'msburg and have perused it with attention. I must confess candidly, that my opinion with Respect to the conduct both of the State and the Line differs very little from yours—Ignorance, Indolence and Ingratitude compose the greatest part of their Caractcrs—But still we are party concern'd and something must be done—in the first place, I think I have it from very good authority, that another reduction of Corps in the Army is soon intended, and therefore I shall by no means push a new arrangement at present, especially as it might essentially injure us to gett at Squabling at a Time when we ought to be most
Page 581
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. unanimous in our united efforts to obtain Justice done us by the State 1781. at the present meeting of the Legislature—I grant there is a large Novem'r 6th number of our officers displeas'd with the arrangement as it stands, and many of them blames you: But there is a much larger number that would be perfectly satisfied as it is—The original first, makes more noise than any one else. Be this as it may, I would even consent to do busi- ness with R—ss—11 to keep all quiet, untill our present Busincss is over. I wish I had it in my power to confer personally with you on the subject, however the most essential points I conceive to be these— 1st. That a memorial or a Petition be drawn up in Behalf of the Line, pointing out to the State the original Establishment of the Army, the Pay we were promis'd, what we have received, and what we, in conse- quence, on a settlement would be entitled to. 2ndly. A Request, that a Committee or Auditors be immediately appointed, vested with full powers to make a final and conclusive settle- ment with each Individual Officer and Soldier of the Line for what sums of Pay and Depreciation or Pay and Subsistence may be due to each Respectively, granting them certificates on State Security, for the same, payable at some certain period either in money or Tobacco and bearing Interest from the day of Settlement. 3dly. That the sd. Committee or Auditors be also vested with full powers to settle our accounts of clothing upon just & lawful principles agreeable to Resolutions of Congress and Acts of Assembly. N. B—in the above cases Reference might be had to the conduct of other States on the same subject—I sent in a number of materials last year, which are now in possession of Colo: Towles. 4thly. That Commissioners compos'd of Officers on the part of the Line, and others on the part of the State, be immediately appointed to proceed to the Back Country to lay off the promis'd Lands, according to Act of Assembly, and that proper Warrants, with authenticated Sur- veyors Certificates of Surveys be made out for each respective Tract of Land, transferrablo or saleable at the option of the holder, if an Officer, as also of the Soldier, if sign'd by some Field Officer of the Line. N. B—To prevent Imposition on the poor soldiers, some Restriction might be put on the sale of their Depreciation notes—The above I con- ceive the most essential points we must push for—I am sure there are many others of much Importance, that I do not at present recollect or probably know anything at all about—this moreover might be left to those who undertake the Transaction of the Business—Grayson, Wood, Davies & Towles would make a fine Committee. Mathews might be added, as also Russell, on account of their Influence with the back members. on my leaving Camp at York, I mett Capt: Fowler on his way with cloathing for the Detachment under Colo: Gaskins. I, previous to this
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 582
582 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. obtained orders from head Quarters for the Detachment to march to Novem'r 6th this place, and here to be equipt, together with the Troops present, pre- vious to their marching to the Southward—in consequence I directed Capt: Fowler to return with the cloathing without breaking bulk—All that has arrived is 400 Coats, 198 vests 270 pair of Linnen overalls & 176 Hatts—the coats may probably be sufficient as the Detach'ts will be about 400, the Bullance of the other Articles mentioned you will sec, & of shirts, shoes & Blanketts we are almost totally destitute—I am now taking an exact Return of every Article of Cloathing in the mcns' pos- session, whether public or private, from which an exact Return of actual wants shall be transmitted in a few Days—If Peyton can furnish us with some Lead, Needles and Thread I will have Buttons put on tlio Cloaths—For want of Tools and a little Whiskey, our Barracks comes on very slow. for want of a Physician, (Doctor Linn refusing to serve any longer) medicines and proper nourishment, our sick suffer & must die—I have wrote Doctor Willson—expect but poor encouragement from that quarter. Are not County Commissioners empowered, if they please to be at the Trouble, to procure us in Lieu of Beef, provided the Ballance of value is exactly obscrv'd, Lamb, mutton, pork, or veal, and instead of flour, Potatoes, Turnips &c, much more suitable on several occasions than poor Beef, Bread Salt & cold water alone? I wish Pearce could do something for us, as great complaints are lodg'd every Day. Mrs. Febiger, who is at my elbow desires to be remembered to you, in the most friendly manner and wishes the happiness of seeing you in this quarter—I am with the greatest esteem & affection, D'r Colo: you most obed. & h'ble serv't." Novem'r 6th COL: C. FEBIGER TO COL: DAVIES. "D'r Colonel, Cumberland Yours of the 31st of October came to hand late last evening Old 0. H. and lt is now cun(iie light—I am perpetually perplex'd with some Busi- ncss or other—The cloathing I received by Major Poulson I sent you an account of, in mine of the 6th instant. * * * * "I had, previous to the Receipt of yours of the 31st 8bre (sensible of the great neglect, both of officers and men with respect to the preserva- tion of their cloaths, and from the shamefull and unmilitary appearance of this sd. Detachment, whom I believe you saw at York) called for an Exact Return of every Article of clothing in the men's possession, a general abstract of which you have inclos'd, from which together with the Returns of the new foriu'd Battallion, Capt: Parkers' company of old Soldiers & Ragsdale's Artillery, you will see how far we are deficient of what is really nccessary to equip those men for the Field. I am 1
Page 583
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 583 taught by Experience that without the greatest Attention paid to the 1781. Preservation of Soldiers cloaths (particularly Virginians) they will be Novem'r 6th always dirty, if not naked. This Attention has been wanting in Colo. Gaskins and his officers. About the 18th of Juno last I took command of this Department. they were then pretty well off for Blanketts & Shirts. though not more than id had Blanketts. At Holt's Forgo, 100 of the likeliest & best equipp'd men were drafted for Colo. White's cavalry & on the 18th or 20th of July, I was again ordered uwixy from the Detachment. I can- not say I left it with Reluctance, first as 100 of the best men were taken away and 2ndly because there were not above three Officers in whom I could place any Degree of Confidence. however I left them in tolerable order, and never saw them again untill at York, when I assure you I pitied the men, and damn'd the O , a very few only excepted, among whom was poor Alex'r Parker with the Remains of Charlestown, ho ready to resign, and the men ready to run away for fear of stinking with Indolence and Filth—hard duty excepted—on the 2nd instant Major John Poulson of the 8th Va. Regt. arriv'd with the Remainder of the Detachment with as much apparent Importance, But as much real Insignificance as you can conceive—four companies entirely without Officers—Capt: Warmau, Capt: Lovely, Mr. Lewis and Mr. Jordan Harris at the head of the others. I have enquir'd what is become of the late large supply of shirts—they say that only one has been deliver'd to each man, and as they had no, other when that was roceiv'd it is worn out—what is become of all your Blanketts—what we have not gott are lost—Pray how are they lost—I dont know, I have only lately joined the Detachment, Colo Gaskins and Major Willis must know best. Pray Capt. how do you account for the loss—Upon my shoul I dont know, Capt. Such, & Lt: Such was with the Company then in Fact where there is a Deficiencj' no one was present, when it happen'd—however I grant that the shirts &c are wore out—But what has become of the 420 Blanketts appears to me very mysterious—they pretend to account for them thus, they say that on the original Distri- bution, every Officer receiv'd one or more—White's men carried off 100— the men who were left at Williamsburg under command of Capt: Lamb and whose Times expire on 31st December next, had one each. the Remainder they suppose they have, except a few, that the Soldiers have either lost, or otherwise dispos'd of—in short, my Dear Sir, Such has been the confusion among them; that really it is impossible to gett any exact Information of any thing from any of them. It took them upwards of four Days to finish the Simple Returns I demanded from them. and when I gott them. they were so ill and incor- rectly made, that it took Capt: Scott and myself two Days more to digest them, and now it is with Difficulty we can account for the men, much more for their cloathing and other necessarys." * * "I have now gott the men properly arrang'd
Page 584
584 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. and si tolerable Officer putt at the head of each company, and Posey at Novem'r 6th the head of the whole, and I think, if we had them once more equipt we would keep them so; But my Distresses are not to end here, for Behold, "the Small Pox is brought up from York"—Six men have already broke out in the natural way, and no doubt every man who has not had it. will take it in the same manner, which might be attended with the most dangerous consequences. I have therefore determin'd to inoculate, however ill provided with Surgeon, medicines or every other necessary—there is nothing in our Favour, But the Season—upwards of 150 men have not had the Disorder. I have about 14 good hutts finish'd; these I have ordered to be immediately clean'd out fitted in the best manner for their Reception—the Residue of the men must continue in Tents, untill we can finish Hutts—G—d confound the Q. Mrs.. we have neather Axes, Iron, or Steel, neither can we get any—I have wrote up all my paper to no purpose. Genl: Washington seemed anxious that those men should be immediately sent to the Southward. But what can I do—to send them unequip'd and with the small pox breaking out among them daily, I thought would be madness. if I knew where his Excellency was, I would write him as also Genl: Greene—I fear censure, though conscious I deserve none." * * * * llth Nov.- "Parker's men arc furlough'd untill the 15th Day of December next agreeable to a promise made them by the Marquis la Fayette when they joined the Army on their landing at James Town in their then distress'd situation." * * * * * "Whilst I am writing, your Favour of the 7th is handed me by Mr. Patillo but no answer to mine of the 6th which I sent by him. I am very much surprised that no officers are to be found at the Rendezvous on the Southside of the River. Thweat, I am sure is at Petersburgh— Garvin Miller I believe is also there—Tom Parker is sick at home. Capt: John Stith for Prince Edward, and indeed every officer appointed for Rendezvous, has received Duplicate, and very pointed orders to repair to their respective Stations and Lt: Worsham is now on his way to receive Recruiting Instructions for the same place—Reid, I should suppose is well fix'd at New London and Conway is with him." * * * * * "I meet with great difficulties in getting Letters sent to different parts of the Country, and when sent they are generally a great while on the way, indeed I apprehend they often miscarry. from Major Poulson, (who is in that and other Respects a c—rs—d F—1) having given unlimited furloughs to most of the Officers that were out this summer, I shall be putt to great inconvenience to gett a sett of Officers collected again. yet as the Inoculation will take up some time, I will endeavour to gett a sett of the old officers collected who know and will do their Duty. Overton has shurk'd about too much
Page 585
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 585 this Summer, his Company has been shamefully neglected—I have given 1781. it to Capt: Joseph Scott Jun'r who was desirous of command, and seems Novem'r 6th very attentive. We have not a sufficiency of arms and accoutrements, the Detach- ments having foolishly given up their spare arms in Camp." * * * "My dear Sir, I am continually pestering you—Could not Pearce be ordered to make one bold push for a hhd. of molasses and a Tierce of Rice as also a Cask of Vinegar, three very essential articles for the Small Pox—had we even the Molasses and Vinegar, I would substitute homini and meal for Rice. do send for Pearce and try him. it is shamefull that the poor naked men are working here every day in the cold, and not a Drop of Liquor of any kind—in short we are Des- titute of everything and I cannot think of continuing in this situation long lett what will, be the consequence—I shall write to Doct'r Willson again, for a Surgeon and medicines and so continue to pester him untill I obtain some Relief. I am extremely sorry to hear you say, if you continue in the same mind, you will never appear in any public Business. when the whole Line are concern'd again I hope you would persist, and beg you to alter your mind for once, and become one of a Committee to represent our grievances and see Justice done us this setting of the Legislature, for if it is now neglected, we may forever after hold our Tongues—a violent Rheumatism in my head and Limbs, added to a dangerous Consumption in my purse, as also the necessary Business of this post puts it out of my power to attend as I proposed." * * . * "I am confident a considerable number of officers will attend—among the Rest I am told Russell will—he is fond of the Back Woods and will be serviceable in getting the Lands survej''d and.properly divided." * * "I am fearfull Wood can't be brought below the Ridge and should he not attend, and you not act, by G—d we are gone—as for our General Officers, they never did us any good yett." * * * * "Do pray my Dear Sir exert yourself in this Business—if you will' not be one of the Committee, assist the Committee—I this moment received an Express from Genl: St. Clair ordering all the men at this post to march to Taylor's Ferry—God Almighty knows we are in a pretty Trim to putt men under march—I have wrote the General, and wish you would see him—I have referred him to you for particulars." * * * * * * am with unfeigned Regard my dear Colo. Yours affectionately."
Page 586
586 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Rev: John Lyon petitions the Executive to be allowed to return to Novem'r 6th his home, subject to the orders of the Gov: and Council, to appear when- Richmond over called before them. Novem'r 6th COL: ED: CARRiNGTON TO Gov: NELSON at Richmond. York Capt: Singleton will explain at length the object of his visit. But he begs leave to recommend to his Excellency's attention the difficulties of removing the stores from that place—Vessels cannot be gotten on account of the great demand for them in the embarkation of troops Northward. "These valuable stores are in great danger, as the way round to James River from York may soon be exposed to the enemy. Major Claiborne has been directed to forward every vessel that can possibly be gotten by impress or otherwise for this purpose. Concludes—"The situation in which Genl: St. Clair's Troops have left this place, with respect to waggons & Teams, will I am affraid, drive us to the disagreeable measure of supplying him by impressment to get them along." ***** I have Honor to be, with much respect, & esteem, yr: Excellency's mo: aff." Novem'r 7th Major R. Claiborne encloses to the Governor, letter from Mr. McCraw Richmond Dep: Q. M. urgently setting forth the want of transportation, on account of which the Southern Army is suffering much, especially for salt—also from Col: Ed: Carrington at York, calling for the means of removing the captured stores from York—and asking for the ballance of funds due "the Continent" by the State of Va. as he is seriously in want of money. Novem'r 7th COL: GEO: SKILLEN TO COL: WM. DAVIES—Sending report of the draft in that County. Botetourt Co Suggests the wisdom of postponing the enlistment of the eighteen- months' men, until those called for in the Counties who have refused to enroll shall have been gotten out, least those in his County "should copy the Example "—He had ordered 4he fourth part of the militia to march, but hearing of the "agreeable news of the capture of Cornwallis" had required them to hold themselves in readiness until further Orders—Has not been able to prevail upon any one to act as recruiting officer, because they say nothing can be done with the paper money.
Page 587
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 687 JAMES MADISON JN'R, EDM: RANDOLPH, & Jos: JONES TO Gov: NELSON. 1781. "Sir, For the present week we have nothing particular to communicate: Novem'r 7th the state of the discussion of the cession of Virginia not yet being pre- pared: We shall therefore postpone any further observations on this head, intending to accompany our next information with an account of the quota of money assigned to Virginia by the late resolution of Con- gress. We beg leave to acknowledge your Excellency's favor of the 20th of October by the last post. 'Wo have the honor to be Sir, with great esteem, yr: Excellency's mo: ob. Servants." CHAS. STEWABT, COM'Y GEN: ISSUES, AND EPH: BLAINE C. G. PROVISIONS, Novem'r 8th TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Sir, We arc honor'd by the rec't of your favour of the 1st Instant, and York Town are perfectly convinced of the very great Exertions of this Government to supply our own Army, as well as that of our good Allies, and of the distress that always has, and must attend collections of this kind—the only consolation to the sufibrers at present, is that the principal object for which such supplies were exacted, is compleatly accomplished & the peace of the State restored thereby. The uncommon Exertions of the Executive of this State and Mary- land during the seige, threw into Camp a surplus of Beef Cattle—there are quite a sufficiency now on hand to support our Army, and the Pris- oners in this State for one month to come. We have made the most proper Distribution of them in our power, but the scarcity of salt may frustrate our Intentions, unless the State can speedily procure, and order to Fredericksb'g 400 Bus: to Winchester 600, and to Williamsburg the like quantity. We must intreat you will urge these Deposits that the cattle may be killed before Winter sets in— We think that sending such Cattle as are collecting in the Counties near Winchester, directly to that place, would be of singular advantage and a great saving, for at that place we presume the Prisoncrs will continue for a considerable space. We shall order a supply of Provisions to Fredericksburg and leave a present support at Williamsb'g & this place, for the use of the Prisoners & Sick of both Armies that remain in this quarter, and shall instruct Major Forsyth, Deputy Commissary General of Purchases, and Mr. Rob- inson, Superintend^ Commissary of Issues for this State, to keep the Board of war and Executive Authority fully informed at all times of the
Page 588
588 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. state of the magazines, that no future wants may arise, and of Conseq'e Novem'r 8th no Exactions be made, but what the public Interests require. We would also beg leave to mention to you that the season is now at hand in which the State ought to lay up their magazine of Salt Pro- visions required by Congress, therefore make not the least doubt, but your Executive will adopt measures to procure as much salt Beef & Pork as their situation will admit of. We are with much personal esteem— your most Ob't H'ble Serv'ts." Novem'r 8th THOMAS DURIE DEP: COM: PRISONERS TO COL: DAVIES. "Sir, ****** York Town "I know it is the desire of the Commander in Chief, and it is the most earnest wish of myself, that the captivity of Prisoners should be as sup- portable, as the present circumstances of our affairs will permit, and their exchange as speedy as may be for the public good; but at present it is impracticable—to alleviate the distresses of the Prisoners now at Richmond, and that they may become more comfortable provided, I would request the favor of you to order them to Winchester, to be placed under the direction of the Commissary of Prisoners at that place." * * * * * "With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Sir, your mo: obed: & mo: Hum: Serv't." Novem'r 8th J. WADSWORTH TO COLO: STEWART & EPH: ELAINE. York He wants all the flour he can get for the French Troops, and prefers paying for it, delivered at or near the North River. The cattle are not such as can be received by the French Army. This matter had been referred to the Governor of the State, who had assured him they should have as good cattle as could be gotten, but Mr. Grant had declared they should not be "picked even by the Governor himself or any other orders but Genl: Washington's." They were not then received at all. Of one hundred and fifty rec'd for the navy, five or six had died of distemper, "and many others were so poor and small they would not take the pains to carry them on board—We have now five hundred large oxen on hand and we cannot receive any of yours untill these are gone, unless we have the orders of Genl: Rochambeau, or the Intendant of the Army of France in writing." ***** "Gents, your humble Serv't."
Page 589
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 589 JOHN KEARNES TO Gov: NELSON, requesting. on behalf of the Rev: Mr. . 1781. Andrews, that he be not required to appear before the Council at Novem'r 8th Richmond until the Spring. The condition of his family is distressing, and he will answer for his Portsmouth good conduct until that time—He proposes opening a school for the sup- port of his family, which must doubtless be also of great advantage to that part of the Country. TIMOTHY PICKERING Q. M. G.—TO Gov: NELSON. Novem'r 8th "Sir, On my arrival here, I found the American sick in a suffering con- Williamsb'g dition; and I fear it will not be in my power to yield them adequate releif—Wood & straw are most wanted at present, and the means of pro- curing them are hardly attainable—The extraordinary demand for upwards of fifty teams to transport military & other stores to the South- ern Army & the death of our working oxen, have rendered it impossi- ble to leave a competent number of teams at this post for the supply of the hospital. Unfortunately too, the subalterns command of Continental troops, which I requested might be stationed here for the service of the hos- pital, were withdrawn when the camp broke up, and the sick are left to shift for themselves—Doct Treat informs me that there are three large rooms at the palace destitute of fire places; and the sick cannot remain in them unless stoves can be procured—Mr. Holt thinks thoge formerly belonging to the palace were removed to Richmond—As I know not where to procure any, and these rooms are essential for our sick, I request your Excellency will be so kind as to cause the palace stoves to be sent hither as quick as possible, as the sick have already suffered by the cold." ***** "I was going on to the Northward, without any expectation of a deten- tion at this place; but the prospects in regard to the sick were so des- perate, I could not consent to proceed, while there was a chance that any applications or exertions of mine could procure them relief; my anxiety to attain which has compelled me to trouble your Excellency with this letter. I have the honour to be with very great respect, Sir, Your most ob. Servant."
Page 590
590 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: John PRyok To Col: DAVIEs. Novem'r 8th “Dear Sir, + + × + +: gº “I made every effort in my power to regain the property of this State, arrison taken at this place, but all in vain, it is deem'd the property of the United States, the large mortars and Brass cannon Genl: Knox seem'd to contract an affection for these I imagine will go to the Eastward. the small arms & smaller sized cannon are to be left in this State, sub- ject to the use of our militia, in case of Invasion—Jones has them in charge, and by orders is sending them to Richmond—I have about 900 muskets in this place, about the same number in Gloucester & some 3 or 400 in Wmsburg.” × -k + + “Unless there was a State Q. Master or some one empower'd to pro- cure Wessels, I shall never be able to get those cannon mention'd by Colo. Newton up, (I suppose to Richmond) you never mention'd where.” + >k >k × >k “I hope by Mr. Frazer to have every necessary order what to do, which shall be done If possible, tho' am afraid I shall not be able to move shortly without hard money.” I am with great respect & esteem Dr. Sir, your mo: obt.” Novem'r 9th E. H. Moseley Jnr. encloses to the Governor, a commission under Pr. Anne Co order of court, for the appointment of a sheriff, there being no such officer in the County. Novem'r 9th Colo. JoHN Bott To Col: DAvies, giving state of the County; militia, arms &c and clothing collected. Chesterfield The County almost defenceless for want of arms, and only three men Co. of the late draft are delivered, “the draught being put off under the Suspending Act.” The Delinquents in furnishing the clothing required are numerous, viz—John Archer of “the Hundred,” George Woodson, Richd. Braugh, Archer Bass, Thos. Cheatham, John Mayo, Wm. Scott, Anderson Brit- ton, Francis Lockett, Ralph C. Anderson, Blackman Moseley, Henry Archer, John Randolph, Robt. Elam, Archibald Carey Esqr, Daniel Weisegar, James Lyle, John B. Forsee, Benj: Branch, Isham Cheatham and many others.
Page 591
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 591 CAPT: JOHN PRYOB TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. "Dear Sir, Novem'r 9th 1 wrote you yesterday by Mr. Kemp in answer to yours of York the 2nd" * * * "I am pretty certain Garrison that Colvard the Conductor who went to Winchester, will not continue, and what will become of the arms there I know not." * * * * "As Capt: Bowne's attractions are pretty much about this place, I shall leave him to send up the Arms &c from this place, Gloster & Wmsburg. I will send a conductor down to Colo. Newton to assist in getting up the cannon you mention. Unless there is some civil or Continental Authority in this quarter, a certain Kind of Government may be adopted, that we shall find difficult to shake off—a word to the wise, * * * I am with great respect— Dr. Sir, your mo: obt. Servt." THOS: NEWTON JNR: TO COL: DAVIES. Nov'r 10th "Sir, I wrote you from S. Quay & Norfolk informing the progress we Siirry had made in removing the cannon. have been much retarded by the slow movements of Some Carry logs, Steers &c from Princess Ann County. the officers there seems afraid to do their duty & I think if some spirited steps are not taken & examples made of the tories there, this Country will neither got taxes or any thing else from them. Murder is committed there & goes unpunished, tho' the justices know the persons who did it—I do not wish to persecute, but if examples are not now made of Several who have actually been in arms with the British, every person will find it their interest to be tories, as they can then make money on both sides & too many in the lower parts lean that way. Eight guns are now down & hope soon to get the remainder to the landing. shall be much obliged, if you'd inform me whether any ves- sels will be down soon to take them off—Flatts will suit best, as we can better put them on board & they will be easier taken out again. I am, Sir Your most obt. Hble Servt." THOS: LEWIS TO Gov: NELSON. Nov'r 10th "May it please your Excellency, The death of our very worthy County Lieut: whose vigilance & spirited good conduct in the discharge of his military duty, & every other department he acted in, is not only a loss
Page 592
592 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. to this County, but to the common cause we arc all engaged in. It is Nov'r 10th highly necessary that his place be supplyed by a new appointment. Colo. Benj: Harrison now stands foremost in the military list. his repu- tation as a soldier is inferiour to none. the repeat'd commands of our militia that he has conducted with resolution & Prudence, leaves this without a doubt, besides the right of seniority. he stands fair in the Estimation of his County, a matter of no Small Importance in appoint- ments of this Kind, nor can his Principles in favor of Independence be called in.Question. Your Excellency will be pleased to pardon the liberty I take as a private person, of mentioning this person to you, to fill the place of his deceased friend Colo: Danl: Smith—be assured Sir, if I thought^therc was another man in the County fitter for that end, I should not have troubled you with my sentiments respecting Colo: Harrison. Tho' destitute of the Glaze of fortune, I am sure you respect such a character. but enough of this—Permit mo Sir, to congratulate you on that reverse of Fortune that hath put us in possession of so many of our enemies—the Pleasure I take in that very interesting event is greatly heightened by its taking place under your administration. An administration that I most ardently (wish) may be crowned with many such Qvents in every part of the United States where our enemies are to be found & terminating in hap- piness to your self & country—Be assured Sir, that I am with the greatest deference & respect, your Excellency's most obedient & very h'ble Serv't." Nov'r 10th CARTER PAGE TO COL: MEADE 2ND STATE LEGION, enclosing "Return*" of the Legion "as it stands," as accurately as consistent with the fact that there are no officers present to account for their men. Goode's He has received a supply of Provisions & Forage, so that his "situa- Bridge yon ig ratner mOre comfortable." Asks whether there is any probability of their being armed, clothed, "or in any other manner rendered respect- able, which is by no means the case at present." Nov'r 10th COL: THOS: NEWTON JNR: TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Surry do. I wrote your Ex'cy from Norfolk & then inclosed a copy of the Consul's Letter, since which have his receipt for 163 head Cattle valued at 2329 5-6 Dollars specie. another receipt for three for the ardent & a third for fifteen more, valued at 225 dollars. these are all I have as yet return'd me. a large number of cattle are now collected which have directed to be taken care of in the best manner this season admits-off. *Not found.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 593
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 593 they are fed & in good pastures. many remain yet uncollected, as we 1781. did not know what to do with them, but have informed the Commissary Nov'r 10th they are still to be taken: shall be exceedingly obliged for your direc- tions how to proceed. have ordered Coll: Dabney's Regt: to be supplied with what they want, but they will grow poor in a short time & unfit for use, unless more troops are to go down, then they may answer as long as they are good. I hope yr: Ex'cy will not forget the affair of the Cape Lands. if they are taken up this Country will sorely repent allowing it. they are survey'd, but left the shores & Cape points out. The owners may Effectually stop fishing, as they will have it in their power to prevent the fishermen from shelter in bad weather. The'Tories & Refugees below are still unpunished, to the great disat- isfaction of the well affected. many of them were in arms plundering & now live in affluence while those who were engaged in their Country's service are ruin'd—I would not wish to persecute, but if some examples are not made, the incouragement is too great for many to withstand the temptation. too many of the justices below were of the party to bring delinquents to account, but I hope some steps will be taken, to call the whole to trial by impartial men. it is really horrid to think that a man (one of our best soldiers) shou'd be taken out of a justice's house & murder'd, the justice knowing the persons & they never call'd to any account for it. This matter has caused several other murders, as the friends revenge the death of their relations & acquaintances on both sides (whig & Tory.) I shou'd have waited on yr: Excellency, but have not got well enough yet to travel, tho' I hope soon to recover as I am now in a fair way. Coll: Godfrey desired me to ask what was to be done with tho parole men who refuses to act. he says they are very hurtful to the militia & occasions much disturbance in the minds of the well affected. Eight cannon from S. Quay are down, six miles below Suffolk & hope soon to make a finish of the whole. what with riding after the Com- missa'ys & Cannon, I have almost wore myself and horses out, but I do not repent of it, as I think it is the duty of every citizen to lend his assistance when call'd on. If any witnessis are wanting against the refugees from below, who are at Richmond, Coll: Godfrey will send them up on notice. I beg your Ex'cy will excuse me for troubling you with many things I have mentioned, but the situation of the lower parts require it. I am yr: most Ob't H'blo Serv'nt." 75
Page 594
594 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COLO. ARMAND* (MARQUIS DE LA ROUERIE) TO GOVERNOR OF VIROA. Nov'r llth Bs. Richmond The Commander in Cheif having ordered me to take quarters with my legion in some convenient places on James river, but mainly at Char- lottesvillo, where I am to remain untill the number of men and borses are recruited, eompleated. & have acquired the necessary consistance to appear in the field, & having order from Congress & the Commander in Cheif to recruit in the thirteen United States at large, I have thought it was my duty to apply to your Excellency for the purpose of giving more force to these orders, foward my wishes & enable me to proceed on in obedience to the commands of Congress & the Commander in Cheif, without interfering with the laws of the State & what measures your Excellency might have already taken to favorize & encourage the recruit- ing of men for the army in the State of Virginia. as I am entirely short of waggons & might have occasion, as well on the road, as in quarters to be in a temporary want of some, I request an order to impress waggons for short times. I am now in the particu- lar want of one to transport from fredericksburg to Charlotteville some necessary articles to the cavallery, which were left at the former place last summer by one of my Officers. in the purpose to save money to the country the Commander in cheif desired me to pick out of the horses taken on the enemy at York, those which could do for mounting dragoons, or could be exchanged when in better order for better horses. I was unhappy when I went to see them, to find that the militia & other peoples had taken & carryed the best of them & on which the Commander in cheif depended on for remounting the cavallery—the general seeing how much deceived he was in his expectations, gave. me an order the 26th Octobre, by which he authorize me to propose the most advisable measures to recover all horses which have become public property by the capitulation of the 19th & that may be found in the army or elsewhere. I know that many of these horses are amongst the inhabitants in this State. I request your Excellency would authorize me to take up all such horses, accordingly to the order of the commander in cheif. it may be that some of them are now with their former owners, but they are not less the property of the public, having been taken on the enemy by the sword & the loss of many life acting for the public. their turn- ing to be the property of the public is much more authorized by the use they are intended to, which is to serve the public. Some allowance might be made afterwards to their former owners, but whatsoever price may be fined for that purpose, it will not be equal to the same necessary for the purchasing new horses & whatsoever disagreable this step may * Bears Impression of Seal in wax; floral and other devices in theexergon, a scutch- eon, bearing a Bar-Pexter with three crescents, surmounted by a crown.
Page 595
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 595 be to those who had recovered their horses, it will be a great deal more 1781. disagreable to the people, if for want of them it become necessary to Nov'r llth impress new horses for remounting the cavallery. I have the honour to be with respect, Your Excellency's the most hble obt. Servt." Expressing his regret that Mr. Gooter Nov'r llth COL: JOHN CROPPER TO has been obliged to decline the agency for supplying the Troops with provisions, because the salary, "four thousand pounds of Tobacco" or the value in paper money" was not sufficient to support him. Indeed this pay amounts really to nothing; it "will not feed the man's wife." In addition to this they have never been furnished over in that County with the Laws in regard to collections &c., hence they are always behind hand, and will in a short time become entirely lawless. Ready money is absolutely necessary—Heretofore he has paid the "carters and shallop-men," out of the public money, but "a man had rather have five shillings in ready money for his service than an order or an account to be carried to Richmond for five pounds," and "the depreciation has been so rapid, that before a man could get his money it was of no value." And "one hard dollar will purchase more than one thousand of the best State paper in circulation." Concludes—"Mr. Pierce'sletters & appoint- ments for Accomack and Northampton are both in my hands; no per- son will accept of them without higher wages." Accomac Co. COL: JOHN CROPPER TO COL: DAVIES, repeating the above in substance Nov'r llth and expressing his great regret that so valuable a man as Mr. Gooter cannot be retained in the service of the State, for want of proper pay. His withdrawal puts the Troops in a very disagreeable situation, Accomack indeed when he leaves they will be dispersed in as much as they are in need of everything. "no cleaths, no provisions, no money, no arms, no ammunition, no necessaries, no anything"—Continues "Great Exertions have been made by Capt: Parker & myself to put a military appearance on those men, but for want of resources not in our power, it cannot be done—Virginia would never want soldiers, was proper encouragement given, and she never will have sufficient to make one good regiment of regulars upon the plans heretofore framed—why does she not disband every man that cannot be properly equipt & supported? why is she so impolitic as to draft & drag her usefull citizens from their helpless con- nections, to starve, either for cloaths or provisions? when 1000 soldiers properly appointed & supported are more valuable, and much more cred- itable than 100.000 ragged, half-starved wretches." * * * *
Page 596
596 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. "Inclosed I send you a letter* from Lord Cornwallis to Gen: Clinton Nov'r llth which was sent from York Town for N. York by a Mr. Gordon Murray (mate of the brigantine "Defiance" of the Q. M. General's Department) and seven sailors in a small boat, armed with one swivel & nine muskets: they called at Metompkin on the seabord of this county, for provisions, and were captured by the militia of my neighborhood, after a chase of three or four leagues to sea: the militia has a small whale boat & four canoes—The sailors being partly Americans, and having a great desire seemingly to sail from the port of Philadelphia, after several days imprisonment, I gave them all passes (except the Captain & one Eng- lishman) for that place, letting only two go together, and keeping the others ignorant of their destination for some time after. I took upon myself to exchange Mr. Murray for a iisefull sea-Captain of this shore taken prisoner at St. Eustatia, James Powell." * * * * "Captain Parker set off a few days ago for Richmond, in quest of cloaths, blankets & arms for his Company, in which I wish him success, and beg you'll answer thi* letter by him. In great haste I am Dear Colonel with Sincere Esteem, Yr: most hble Servt. P. S.—Captain Parramore, commander of the troop of horse just now applies to me in the name of that corps (that they may be of no further public expenco, as there is no great call for their service at this time) for leave to disperse, and muster periodically as the other militia com- panies—I granted their request, complimented them for their service, and must ever do them the justice to say, that they are young gentle- men of as much persevering virtue as I was ever acquainted with." as before, J. C. Nov'r 12th . MAJ: R. CLAIBORNE TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Sir, Richmond I received your favor of the 10th, the day it was written, and gave such advice as I considered would be most effectual—but the depart- ment is so destitute of means that I am apprehensive but little can be done. Where there is no inducement, you know how heartlessly people go to work, and how difficult it is to get others to part with their property." I have the honor to be very Sincerely, Sir, Your obt. hblo Servant." * Not found.
Page 597
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 597 R. ANDREWS (SECT'Y TO THE GOVERNOR) TO MR. PIERCE. 1781. "Sir, Nov'r 13th Yesterday I received a Letter from Mr. Livingston, who acted as Richmond Agent for the Marquis St. Simon's Army, until Count Roebambeuu arrived, wherein he informs me, that from the blunders of Garrett, Col: Blane Commy. Genl. of Purchases for the Continent, claims Payment for the Provisions furnished by Garret to the French army, alledging that all Provisions, so soon as received by Garrett were Continental Property—It is probable that Garret has kept his Books in such a man- ner as to make it a matter of doubt whether in any Instance he acted as your Agent; but if you can satisfy Col: Blane that he did, that you instructed him to receive for you, & to keep a distinct account of what be furnished to the French Army, which you can by your Letter of Sept: 8th, a Copy of which I herewith send you, Col: Blane will cer- tainly relinquish his claim for Payment; for to take an advantage of the mistakes of an inferior Agent, from whatever motives they might have proceeded, is not the Part of a man capable of conducting the Busincss of a Continent. Col: Blane must be sensible, it was enough for this State to advance to the Continent, all the supplies necessary for the American Army, & that it could not be expected that it would also lend to the Continent, Provisions which the Continent was to sell to the French Army for ready Moncy. If this Government, eager to supply every want of the combined Armies, should have neglected Regularity in the conveyance of its sup- plies; if anxious that the various necessaries should be furnished, it should not have been sufficiently attentive to the Hands into which they were delivered, this conduct ought not to be converted to its Prejudice, but it should rather be regarded as meriting all the Indulgence & assist- ance which could with propriety be granted—Col: Pickering was of this opinion, when he delivered to the State Agent Mr. Morris, the Receipts he had taken from the French Agents, for Forage & charged the State with so much Forage—Col: Stewart Commy. Genl. of Issues, thought in the same manner, when he advanced to the State Agent Provisions for the use of the French Army; And Col Blane when he perfectly understands this affair, will likewise acknowledge that the State alone is entitled to Payment for those Provisions which the State furnished to the French Army. The Gentlemen of the Council to whom I commu- nicated Mr. Livingston's Letter, advise that you consult with Mr. Ross on this Business. I am &c." Wm. McCraw, Dep: Q. M. gives information of the irregular conduct Nov'r 13th of Capt: Thos: Smith of Henry- Co. and Capt: John Buckley of Pittsyl- Peytonsburg
Page 598
598 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. vania in taking, without authority a barrel of brandy, arbitrarily from Nov'r 13th Mose Wilson waggoner, on his way from Prince Edward Co. House— also, reporting the like conduct on the part of Jesse Herd, D. Com: Provision Law, and Capt Martin for unlawful seizure of six barrels of Salt, belonging to "the Continent." Nov'r 14th COL: WM. FLEMING TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Botetourt Co The inclosed* address'd to me as a member of Council, I think necessary to transmit to your Excellency, as it contains some greivance complained of. I am very sensible Government has great reason to apprehend impositions and fraud in almost every department in that Country (Western), cheifly owing to persons imployed in behalf of the State, who are at too great distance from the notice of their superiours, to be immediately caled to account for their misconduct, turn their views too much to their private interest—Great sums have been advanced for provisions, great quantities have been purchased, and great quantities by negligence have been lost—Capt: Todd, who will deliver this to your Excellency, informs me, only half of the horses purchased & paid for by the State in this quarter, On account of General Clark have been deliv- ered. I hope the Commissioners appointed to settle and adjust these accounts, will have sufficient powers given them to discriminate the guilty from the innocent—that the latter may not suffer for the faults of the former—My sincere attachment to the Commonwealth will I hope excuse my mentioning the above—Give me leave to congratulate your Excellency, on the happy capture of Genl: Cornwallis & his forces in Virginia, and beleive me with great respect, Your Excellenc's most obt. Hble Servt." Nov'r 14th THOMAS DURIE, DEP: COM: PRISONERS, TO LT: Gov: JAMESON. "Sir, Williamsb'g I have the honor to inform you that 350 men (of the sick prisoners of war) marched from Gloucester on the 9th instant for Todd's bridge, and the day following about 260 embark'd in boats, and proceeded up the river to the same place, carrying the baggage of the former—the remaining able to transport by water (160) I expect moved last evening or early this morning—from this you will be able to judge the necessary Provision to be made, and the number of Teams that it will require to convey their Baggage &c by land wholly to Fredericksburgh or other- wise to Hobb's-hole and from thence by water. * Not found.
Page 599
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 599 I am now on my way to the Northward, and should be glad that the means may be furnish'd to foward these Prisoners as early as possible. The Prisoners now remaining at Gloucester, unadvisable to remove exceed 500, and for the present will be secured by Guards from the detachment of French Troops to be station'd at that place. Should any of them recover so as to be transported without endan- gering their lives, I could wish that orders be given to the County Lieu- tenant to remove them when their cases will admit, under a proper escort to Fredericksburg (and agreable to His Excellency Gen: Wash- ington's Instructions to me) where they can be better provided for, and fowarded to Winchester or Fort Frederick to their respective Regiments or Corps, when more recovered—&c. ***** have the honor to be with the greatest respect Your mo: obed: & mo Hble Servt." 1781. Nov'r 14th WM. HAY ASST: COMMERCIAL AGENT—TO COL: DA VIES. Nov'r 16th "Sir, In consequence of an Order of Council, directing that the Hemp Richmond collected should be paid to the Commercial Agent, circular letters were sent to all the Counties where we supposed Hemp would be paid in Taxes, requesting a Return to be made to this Office—few or none have been made, owing I presume to the late distracted state of our Affairs—r- We have sent on a considerable Quantity to Philadelphia, but as the Price is too low there, to admit of Land Carriage, I have declined send- ing any more at present—Altho at present we have no immediate Demand for Hemp, yet I consider it as a good Fund & would advise that it should not be sold, especially as there is money enough collected to answer the purposes of the Act of Assmby— Should the Assembly think proper to advise the continuing of a Pub- lic Rope Work, the Hemp will be wanted for that Purpose & I mention this as another reason against selling at present. I am very respectfully, Sir, Your most Hble Servt." COL: WM. DAVIES TO HON: D. JAMESON IN COUNCIL. Nov'r 16th "Sir, The transportation of the cannon from below to a place of security War Office is an object of great importance. With much difficulty they have been brought from the waters of Carolina to James River, but unless removed, are more insecure than ever. There are in the whole near 30 iron 18 and 24 pounders, and of a very excellent quality. I beg leave to repre-
Page 600
600 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. sent to you that we have no other method of bringing them up, but by Nov'r 16th water, and we can procure no other vessels but our own, nor indeed is there any necessity for employing any others in this business. Our own vessels are all in readiness, except some slight repairs, for the finishing of which some small quantity of tar is necessary, tho' not more than a barrel at tho utmost—We cannot procure this quantity under some time unless we obtain it from Mr. Brown, who will not part with it upon any other terms than for specie, of which the State has none to pay. I beg therefore the directions of Government respecting this man's refusal, and wish to have instructions whether the quarter master may not be directed to seize one barrel of Brown's tar, with an assurance of replac- ing it in Kind & quantity in a fortnight at farthest or on paying him the current price at the time of taking it—I know of no other method to ensure the removal of the cannon, and I therefore submit the matter to your decision and direction. I have the honor to be, with utmost respectful esteem— Your most obt. Servt." Nov'r 16th COL: WM. DAVIES TO LT: Gov: JAMESON—giving report of the condi- tion of the Q. Master's Department at Staunton, sent to him. Richmond Only four Artificers at-work, two of them negroes—three black-smiths and a saddler—One "sick of palsy" and one wheelwright poisoned, "the rest all run away," had-timber for sixty waggons, but has so shrunken as to be useless—"Not a grain of Forage" can be gotten, not a wagoner, nor Hostler at the Post—"The "invalid horses" must be sent to Penn's Ordinary or die, there being corn laid up for them on the other side the mountain—Indeed the situation of the Q. M. General's Office in the entire State is so depressed, that unless he has speedy releif from the North, "all communication and busincss must stop in a few days"—He has at this moment dispatches of importance to "be conveyed without loss of time," but for want of money, cannot employ an Express. The material gathered at Staunton should be sold to prevent its entire loss, and the same state of things applies to a number of wagons and harness at Charlottesville. Col: Baylor has made demand for men to fit up Stables at Petersburg for "the horse of his Regiment," but he has not the means to assist him—The Quarter Master at Fredericksburg also, is called upon for wagons to transport Provisions to the Southern Army but finds it impos- sible to do so—He enumerates these things as evidence of the real state of things, and that he may receive directions accordingly.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 601
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 601 FOST. CRUTCHFIELD TO COL: JOHN SYME. "Sir, I waited on you on monday last, but you was gone to Richmond, to inform you that there are a party of British prisoners left at this place to the amount of 157 men—they are part of the last division that passed, but how they came to be left, I can't inform you. most of them are hearty Fellows, and able to march—there is no officer with them nor no guard. So that they are rambling all over the neighbourhood, and I do expect many of them will get off—therefore I hope you will take it into consideration, as they are committing all manner of Depre- dations. I am Sir, Yr: Hbl Servt." 1781. Nov'r 16th Hanover Town WM. REYNOLDS TO Gov: NELSON at Richmond. "Dr. Sir, The french troops march'd in 13th inst: and have taken pos- session of part of some, and the whole of most of the houses in this Town. Some of the Inhabitants arc turn'd out and others with their familys confin'd to a room, a situation little better than a prison. Mr. Mitchell could not obtain part of your house on your order. Mr. Powell let his family have two rooms at his house, but the Count Viomini, who commands at this place turn'd them out of one. The inhabitants in this Neck are plunder'd and some of them left destitute of the necessary of life. corn—It gives me real concern to say our friends seem disposed to make the situation of the people more miserable than the British left them. I fear from some expressions they make use of that they have been prejudiced against us in this part of the country. they think us disaffected, & that they have a right to enjoy what they captur'd. I am • afraid you will receive letters on this disagreeable subject from the other Towns, for I am told our situation is not singular. Indeed my friend, this part of the Country merits the attention of the Executive, the situation of the people (distress'd you know suffi- ciently before) is enough to excite the compassion of the most unfeeling. judge then my situation. Complaints hourly and without the power of remedy, and unless some measure is adopted to convince these Gentle- men that they were sent to assist, not to distress us, we in this part of the country may bid adieu to liberty, property and every thing dear to man. the civil power is done away, and a lock is no bar to the curiosity of a petty officer. the wisdom of your hon'ble Board, will I trust sug- gest some method to alleviate our distresses and free us from this second Tyranny. Yr: Excellency is well acquainted with my attachment to the French nation & therefore cannot suppose I would wish to exagger- ate matters. two of my children being very Sick, and the present dis- Nov'r 16th York 76
Page 602
602 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Nov’r 16th Novºr 16th Northum- berland Co. Nov'r 16th Cumberland Old C. H. tress'd State of my family and constituents prevent my attending a sum- mons from the House of delegates. I have the honour to be yr: Excellency's most obedient Servit.” CoL: Thos: GAskins to making report of his collections under Act of Ass: of 1780. The wagon and team cost “25,000 lbs of crop Tobacco, and was sent to Fredericksburg, afterwards to Gloucester Camp—All the muskets, bayonets &c, 120 in number were left there. The fatigues of his Office too great, being almost worn out in the service, and ruined, having had two dwelling houses burnt at different places, and most of his furniture, inclines him to resign his commission. He has on hand a large supply of salt, after having supplied the Commissarys and militia with what they need–Having no vessels in which to transport it, he urges the importance of removing it at once, to save it from destruction. CoL: CHRIs: FEBIGER 2ND WA. REGT: To Gov: NELson. “Sir, Agreeable to my Letters of the 11th instant, to the honorable Major Genl: St. Clair and to Colo: Davies Commissioner at War, I had, in consequence of the Small Pox breaking out in the natural way among the Troops at this post, and having upwards of 150 who have never had it, concluded to inocculate the whole, and was making every necessary preparation for that purpose, and had in Fact inoculated Ensign Quarles, when finding no more break out for a few Days, and being destitute, both of medicines and other necessary nourishment proper for the men, I thought it best to wait at least a few Days to see if the Contagion would stop being ill prepared and the Inhabitants extreamly uneasy. I had however in consequence of a Letter from Col: Davies of the 6th October last prevailed on Doctor Cole to undertake the Inoculation and finding the necessary medicines for the purpose, when Colo: Mosby call'd on me with the enclosed Memorial, sign'd by himself and a num- ber of the Inhabitants of the County, informing me also that Mr. Smith County Commissioner declin'd officiating for fear of the Infection, and that the Inhabitants at large would lay the blame entirely on me, should any misfortune happen to themselves and Familys, indeed he sd. that if we inoculated, they would withold all Supplies and cease all communica- tion with us. he spoke also of loaded guns, and in Fact made use of some very imprudent Expressions. All those Threats however would not have had the least weight with me in pursuing a step which I thought essentially necessary for the
Page 603
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 603 good of the service, especially when another man is discover'd this morn- 1781. ing, who has been broke out for several Days, and still continued in his Nov'r 16th Tent among others who never had it, untill the Pock is fill'd and turn'd, was it not for incurring universal censure among a sett of men, with whom I have not the least Acquaintance, and among whom it is highly probable 1 must continue for some time. I therefore thought it my Duty, previous to proceeding any further in the matter, to report my situation to your Excellency and to receive your Instructions on the subject, which may at least justify my Conduct in the Eyes of the people in the vicinity of the Post—On the 6th instant two men broke out, on the 7th & 8th four more—I had these removed into Tents at some considerable Distance from the Camp and have taken every Precaution possible to prevent its spreading and was in some hopes that it might stop, untill this morning, when the case of the man above- mentioned was reported to me, and shuld the men who have not had it, be march'd Southward without Inoculation, I am confident that the greatest Part, if not all would catch it gradually and be left on the Road. By which means the whole country through which they march would be infected, whereas hero but a few are in danger. I have comfortable hutts sufficient to receive the whole—Doctor Cole will undertake the Business and four weeks would accomplish it—I have Beef and Bread enough to last that Time, and Colo. Davies has promis'd me his assistance with a few extra necessarys,—a few Gallons of molas- ses, Vinegar and Spirits, and a little Brown Sugar would be sufficient— But those Articles might probably be got easier, lower down—the peo- ple about Richmond & Manchester has been inoculated, and my officers inform me that there is a number of houses empty at Manchester. Your Excellency might probably direct that the men shall be march'd there for Inoculation and return when recover'd to be equip'd and march'd to the Southward. Your Excellency will pardon my suggesting the above, my Feelings for the people in this Quarter, who are almost as ill provided as ourselves, the probability of Recruits coming to the Station daily, who might catch the Disorder from the infected hutts, Should we inocculate in them, is my only Inducement—General St. Clair has positively order'd every well man to be immediately equipp'd & march'd under a Field Officer to join him—I am now taking steps accordingly and hope to have them ready in a few days—After request- ing the Favour of your Excellency's Commands by the Return of the Express, I have the honor to be, with every sentiment of Respect Your Excellency's most Obedient and most humble Servant.
Page 604
604 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Memorial. Nov'r 16th "To Colo. Christian Febiger Commdt. at the Barracks near Cumberland O. Ct. House": "Sir, We the subscribers, inhabitants of this county, take leave to Repre- sent to you the bad Effect it will have on them and their families, should your orders for Innoculating the Troops take place. 1st It will be almost impossible to Keep the Infected within their Quarters, the conse- quence of which will be, that our slaves will from them catch the conta- gion in the natural way, from whence the whole 1'amily will be Infected, and many valuable lives lost. which might otherwise have been pre- served—2ndly was it our will, we have not the power to Innoculate our families for want of medicine, and other conveniences—therefore it would be the hight of absurdity for any Inhabitants to attempt it— 3dly. The Distemper of itself has stopt in camp, not one man having Broke out Since 11th Instant. And- it may be presumed no more will, without your adhering to your first Orders, which we most Earnestly Request you to Rescind—which will oblige in the greatest Degree your most Obedt., H. Servts, L. MOSBY, RO. MOSBY WM. SMITH RICH: RADFORD JNO: SWANN EDWD. MUMFORD EDMUND LOGWOOD BENJ: MOSBY LITTY. MOSBY JNR. JACOB McGEHEE JOHN LOWE JNR: HANS STEGER JOHN BAUGH. JO: LIGON SETH LIGON HUGH WOODSON GEO: RADFORD FRA: E. HARRIS DANIEL HIX JAS: TAYLOR ROB: CARDIN JAS: MADDOX WM. MOSS ROBT. HUGHES JNO: STRATTON JESSE HIX STEPHEN HIX JOHN NETHERLAND SR. SAML: STEGER CHAS: POVALL JOHN LIGON WILL STRATTON." Nov'r 16th PAT: LOCKHART TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Botetourt Co Sometime about the first of April last, Jack, a negroe the property of Mr. Stephen May of this County was apprehended by me upon sus- picion of an Insurrection, Felony &c—Upon Trial, he was convicted of Two considerable Robberies, of attempting to procure Ratsbane to poison Capt: Madison & Major Quirk, also of Engaging & Enlisting sev-
Page 605
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 606 oral negroes to Raise in Arms & Join the British, the said Jack to be 1781. their Captain—for which crimes he was condemned to be Hanged & a Nov'r 16th certain day appointed for his Execution—Two days before he was to be Executed, by neglect of the Jailor or Guard, he Escaped, and it is noto- rious, that since that time he has for the most part been employed, maintained & Harboured by his master & his master's brother David May (altho' Stephen May is both Sub-Sheriff & Jailor) and now is going at large, behaving in the most Insolent & Daring manner—Sometimes armed with a gun, Pistol &c—And as I have been informed Threatening Revenge upon those that apprehended him & the witnesses—I have been . mostly from here since this affair, happened, but as well as I remember, at our July court, I applied to the Court to have him apprehended and Executed—The Court seemed at a Loss to Know what to do. even divi- ded in their opinions & in fact nothing was donc. From Pregnant circumstances, there is good reason to believe that both before & after his condemnation he hath Broke the Goal of this county, let out a number of Deserters & Several Tories; also have been inform'd that when he was the property of David May, ho attempted to Kill several white People (some of this Mr. May told me) also have been credibly Informed, that before he was brought into this State, that he was several times tried for his life in N. Carolina—There has been so many Instances of Tories, money makers & others Escaping the Pun- ishment their crimes deserved, that really a Person hath very little encouragement to Exert themselves to bring any of them to Justice. it has been frequently the case, that after their Escape they have threat- ened to burn the Houses or take the lives of those who had been active in apprehending them. I am informed that Stephen and David May & some others hath got a Petition to present to your Excellency in order to obtain a Pardon for him &c." * * * "I could wish the Interference of the Executive in the Premises, so that the court of this County should have such Directions as would cause them to have this negro apprehended & executed agreeable to the Sentence of the Court that tried him, otherwise I think the Example of his Escaping may be attended with Bad consequences." I would have sent to the Clerk's Office & enclosed your Excellency a Copy of the Records, but as David May is the clerk, hath reason to beleive notice would be given the negroe to Fly, or perhaps do something worse—I would beg leave to refer your Excellency to John Breckenridge Esqr, a member of the Assembly from this county who perhaps can Illustrate the matter, he living in that neighborhood & may perhaps have a genl: knowledge of the Transactions. I am your Excellency's mo: obt. Hble. Servt."
Page 606
606 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: EPH: ELAINE, C. G. PROVISIONS, TO GOVR. NELSON. Nov'r 16th "Sir, Frederic'sb'g I intended doing myself the honor of waiting upon you at Han- over, but upon coming there, found you were gone to Richmond. My hurry to the Northward prevented my going to that place, in order to have communicated many matters relative to the present and future specific supplies required from your State; and to have fixed upon some plann for the disposal of the Public cattle which are now upou hand at Williamsburgh. the assessments of the cattle which were collected in 'this State, was for the use of the Allied Army.—there remains now upon hand, two thousand three hundred head, half of which are not fit for use—I made application to the Commander in cheif, who told me he wou'd make application to Count Rochambeau, to order the receival of their proportion of such as were fit to Kill—Since his departure from York Town I made application to the french agents and requested them to appoint some person to receive their proportion, but this they have refused, as you will see by the inclosed, which was their Answer to Col: Stewart and myself—as those Cattle were collected for the Special use of both armies, I think it exceeding hard they shou'd remain a charge to the State and Continent, which they now are, as we have no Troops there to make use of them, and numbers are dying with the distemper. I have adopted every possible plann for the disposal of such as are fit for use, and have directed Major Forsyth to wait upon your Excellency and Council and take such directions as you are pleased to give for the disposal of those which are too poor to Kill—Seven hundred and fifty of the best are now upon their way to this place and Winchester, and if not immediately slaughtered, will be unfit for use. there is salt to answer the purpose here, but not a bushel at Winchester—you will please to give directions upon this head, and Order an immediate deposite at that place, where in my opinion, all the cattle yet upon hand and fit for slaughter, ought to be sent and salted up in .bulk for the use of the Prisoners. the Season is now at hand, in which magazines of Salt Provisions ought to be laid up for the use of the Continent. the requisitions of Congress upon your State is very large—have therefore to request your Excellency and Council to press this business with your Executive, that measures may be taken, in due time to procure the Salt Provisions required, particularly the Pork. the want of proper magazines of this necessary article, has ever been an injury to the summer supplies of our army, and being fed entirely upon fresh beef, and often of a very ordi- nary quality, has been the causes of fluxes, and many other diseases, which are very injurious to the soldiery. Colonel Stewart and me have wrote your board of war, upon the same subject, and hope it will meet with your approbation and theirs. I have the honor to be, with the greatest Respect Your Excellency's Most Obedt. and most Hble Servant."
Page 607
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 607 SURGEON MATHEW POPE TO COL: DAVIES, recommending the discharge 1781. of one James Maiden a soldier drafted, who had served three years in Nov'r 16th the Army and by a "hurt occasioned his present unhappy complaint" "a very bad rupture." Adds "Unless some mode is fallen upon to prevent it & we should Richmond stand in need of more Drafts, we shall have blind men sent for soldiers." COL: THOS: BARBOUR reports to Col: Davies, the condition of the mili- Nov'r 17th tia, arms &c in that County. The people badly armed, because the men ordered into service were Orange Co. required to carry their arms, but not allowed to bring thi-m back. All the clothing required had been collected and delivered to Col: Fowler's Orders—The county has furnished its full quota, viz 37, upon the last draft for the Continent—But two had absconded, and ope he recom- mends be discharged, as being "insane" and very poor "with a house full of small children." Thos: Durie, Com: of Prisoners, informs the Governor that four bun- Nov'r 17th dred prisoners arrived the day before at Todd's Bridge, and the remain- Frederic'sb'g der in Boats hourly expected—From that place most of them will be able to march to Fredericksburg—Upwards of one hundred were left at Williamsburg, and as it will be impossible to provide for them there, they are ordered to Hanover Co. House, and thence to this place. DAVID Ross TO COL: DAVIES. Nov'r 17th "Sir, I have just now received the letter from Col: Martin, which you York did me the honor to write, and I am trying to get the Indians furnished with some articles, but most of the goods are gone from the Stores, and I shall not be able to accommodate them fully 'till they return to Wil- liamsburg. I have been at much pains to please them. I carried them down to the River with an intention to carry them on board one of the Ships of War, but it was not in my power to get a boat—Considering the risque of getting the Small Pox, I shall send them away in the morning, after furnishing Col: Martin with money for their expences—he says he's in debt on the road for his expences coming down. Captain Villebrun of the Romulus, who was left here by the Count de Grasse to transact the business of the navy, has given me all the trouble that was in his power. the Ships I purchased for the State, were
Page 608
608 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. kept down at the Fleet, untill they plundered them of a vast quantity Nov'r 17th of valuable stores, in short I have had more trouble with this transac- tion than I ever had in my life—I have got the ships in possession, in order to carry up the remains of the Continental Army, at General Washington's earnest request—The ships were kept from me so long, that there was neither sailors, officers or materials to be procured. Expecting that we should be able to pick up some British Tars, with whom there w'd be no danger, whilst the soldiers were on board I wrote to Colo. Dabney to furnish two officers & 40 men for the safety of the ships on their return. this application was with the approbation of Major Genl: Lincoln, who also wrote to Colo. Dabney. I sh'd not have taken this liberty, had there been time to have sent to Richmond, but the ships came up one day, & the Continental Troops hurried on board the next day, hands, water wood &c &c were to be got in the utmost hurry— there is one of the ships sailed this afternoon, the other will sail tomor- row—Colo. Dabney's men have not yet appeared. The French Troops are going into Winter Quarters as fast as they can get houses, I dare say there is a necessity for their taking up all the room they've hitherto done, but the people are far from being satisfied—there is a degree of harshness in a soldier's coming & taking a man's house, that our people have not been used to, nor can they put up with it quietly. Perhaps it would have been more agreable to the people & more consistent with our Constitution that the civil magistrate had appropriated Quarters for the Troops—it may be prudent to begin by times, to exert the authority of the civil power, which cannot fail to make peopfe respected by the military, although there has been some murmoring & perhaps some instances of insolence, which will be the case where there is an army. I should certainly do the French Army great injustice, if I did not say they are a sett of very orderly men. I have no doubt, but that in a lit- tle time, things will go on smoothly, 'tis not impossible, but they may have come here with the same prejudices the Northern Troops did at first. I hope to get away from this place in a few days now, at which I shall be extremely happy. I have the Honor to be, with great Respect, Your most humb Servant." Nov'r 17th Maj: R. Claibornc, orders that all the horses "that can in a reasonable time be recruited "as soon as they shall have consumed the forage col- lected in the Counties to which they were sent, should be dispersed among the inhabitants, under proper contracts, to be nursed, and put in order for service as soon as possible"—Those not worth this expence to be sold to pay for keeping the others.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 609
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 609 COLO. C. FEBIOER TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. "Dear Colonel, Nov'r 17th The officers at this Station, understanding a Detachment Cumberland is shortly to march from here to the Southward—Beg leave previous to such a step being put in execution; to lay before you their Incapacity for undertaking such an expedition, circumstanced as they are at Pres- ent—You are truly sensible, wo are destitute of Cash (and it may with equal propriety be said, we have had none for two and some for three years past, except some small sums of State money, which from its depreciated State, was of very little account or advantage) either to dis- charge our little debts here, or to subsist us on so long a march; not to mention that sickness and other contingencies, may when to the South- ward, reduce an officer without money to assist him, to the most deplora- ble state of despondency. We are truly destitute of cloathing, having barely sufficient to sup- port us against the inclemencies of a Winter Campaign, nor has each officer a Blankett—It may be said, that part of us will receive twenty pounds worth of cloathing, the part who are privileged to receive that, are much the fewest of those who will be destin'd to march with the Detachment, it being granted only to such as were in the Trenches during the Seige of York, and even those (the Cloathing now arriv'd) receive not more than fourteen pounds worth V. Currency, and that Summer cloathing, not one yard of cloath being in the assortment, so that but very few of the Officers who are to march with the Detachment will reap any advantage from this supply. These circumstances being strictly considered, every humane feeling person must necessarily suppose that it would be the greatest impru- dence in us to throw ourselves away, and possibly risque our Reputation on so precarious an event. We wish to render our Country every ser- vice in our power. We have done it, tho' with the loss of health and fortune, and are still agreed and ready to march upon the shortest notice to any the most distant part, for her releif and advantage, if sup- ply'd in any Suitable manner, but we cannot in justice to ourselves, under such circumstances yeild the submission and pursue the same schemes now, when there is not the same necessity as heretofore, but must observe to our Rulers, how ungenerously, nay how inhumanely they have treated us. Let them cast their eyes on our Sister States to the Northward, and see how amply they have provided for those brave officers who have fought their Battles, and endured with perseverance, the innumerable hardships attendant OH the military Proffesion—Then let them draw a line, by which they will see that the Ballance of ill usage and neglect has fallen with unmercifull weight on the shoulders of the Officers of the Continental Line of this State in a manyfold pro- portion to that of the sufferings of the Officers of any other State in the Union. 77
Page 610
610 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Permit us therefore, Dear Colonel, to make this single observation to Nov'r 17th you, an observation we are sensible must give you pain, and which no officer who knows Colo. Febiger would willingly do. That we will, and are unanimously resolved, unless Redused, to resign our Commissions rather than march to so great a distance and so unhealthy a climate in the Situation, and under the circumstances we now are. We must have our pay, and that in such money as will not only purchase us necessa- rys here, but where we are going; which the paper of this State will not do, scarce worth the carrying here, and worth less to the South. It gives us sincere joy when we think our Independence is so firmly fixed, that we can retire without doing any essential injury to our Coun- try, and that the consciousness of our having well done our duty will chear us in our Sollitudes, and render to the citizen that heartfelt Satis- faction, which he experienced whilst in the Army fighting for the Liber- ties of his Country. We return you every mark of our Acknowledgements and thankful- ness, for the very obliging manner'in which you have at all times attempted to (have) justice done us; and the regret we shall feel when obliged to quit the service will be that we left the Gentleman and Offi- cer, whom we wOuld at all times willingly serve under. except there- fore Dr. Colonel, our warmest wishes for your health and happiness, and beleive us to be with sincere Regard, Your most obedient Servants— Signed in Behalf of the Officers at the Station. THOMAS POSEY L: Col: 4th Va. Regt JOHN POULSON Major 5th V. Regt SAML: FINLEY Major 1st Regt: ALEXDR. PARKER Capt: 2nd Regt: JOSEPH SCOTT Capt 1st Regt: A true Copy of the original presented me CHRISTIAN FEBIGER Col: 2nd Va. Regt: & Comd. Genl: Rend:" Nov'r 18th HENBY SKIPWITH Co. LIEUT: TO Gov: NELSON. Cumberland Recommending that a new arrangement be allowed in laying off the Co. County, before any draft of the militia be attempted, in as much as since the orders under the Act of Assembly of 1780, so many men have died, emigrated and come of age, that no fair and equal draft can otherwise be made.
Page 611
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 611 COL: C. FEBIGER TO COL: DAVIES, acknowledging receipts of the 12th 1781. & 14th insts. Nov'r 18th Genl: St. Clair has positively ordered all the well men to march imme- Cumberland diately—He will arrange and clothe them the next day, but has no offi- cers, as there are not enough at the Station to supply four companies— Has arms enough, but wants much Knapsacks, canteens, camp Kettles and narrow axes, also wagon-gear—He will apply to Major Claiborne for these things. COL: WILL: WISHART TO Gov: NELSON. Nov'r 18th "May it please your Excellency, My infirm and precarious state of Pr. Anne Co Health is such that I find myself very unequal in bodily Abilities to the Task of performing the various services which necessarily devolve on a County Lieutenant. I assure your Excellency that 1 never failed to obey the commands of the Executive, but with all possible Diligence with the greatest chearfulness, attended the Business whilst Health and strength would admit." * * * * "Hoping that your Excellency will conceive the cause of my applying for a Resignation sufficient, doubt not but you'll readily accept of my Commission inclosed, that some other man able and as willing may be appointed"— ***** "Should have troubled your Excellency with this, Some Time ago, had it not been that I was determined to seek vengeance on the Refu- gees and Tories of this County (thro' whose means many Friends to the Country, with myself became sufferers) which, thank God, with the assistance of Colo. Dabney, have pretty well effected. I am, With the greatest Respect Yr: Excellency's mo: obed: hum Servt." W. ARMSTEAD TO . Nov'r 19th "Sir, Some days ago Doct: Pope, being in want of Sugar &c, for the Monday Hospital, I made application to the Quarter Master for a waggon to morning bring a quantity of those Articles from Mr. Ross' store to the Publick Store, but without success, this was the case for three or four several days; thus the matter remained untill yesterday, when I was informed you came by the publick store & barely upon hearing Doct: Pope men- tion his want of the sugar, immediately with warmth, charged it upon my neglect, with other insinuations equally inapplicable to me. this
Page 612
612 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Sir, is a state of my conduct which may be established past contradic- Nov'r 19th tion. from this, I am willing to appeal to the common sense of any man (who has not already given his opinion') whether I have not done every thing which upon this occasion my duty required; if so t hen your treatment of me was unjust & malicious; to my feelings nothing is more corroding than reflections of this cast, except the disagreeable altercations they sometimes produce, had this therefore been the only instance, which proved your readiness to censure me, I might have endeavoured to sup- press communicating to you my dissatisfaction at it; but as I am per- suaded no just occasion of blaming me will pass unused, so I am deter- mined not passively to suffer any unjust ones to be used to that end; I forbear several remarks, which the present occasion strongly suggests, hoping that your observations of yesterday, might not result from that temper towards me which I suspected. the Sugar &c are this morning bro: up. I am with due respect Sir, Yr': obed: Servt." Nov'r 19th COL: ED: CARRINGTON TO Gov: NELSON, drawing attention to the wishes expressed by Genl: Washington, that a depot of Arms and Mil: Stores should be established at Westham. or if houses could not be procured there, at Richmond. Richmond He has waited several days to confer more at length with his Excel- lency on this subject, but the movements of Genl: St. Clair's Division, require his immediate departure. Capt: Singleton who is left to carry out the arrangement for this deposite will give his Excellency every assist- ance and information in the matter—His first need will be a guard and detail of men, which he trusts will be at once furnished—He will not attempt any further suggestions, as his Excellency is possessed of Genl: Washington's views, and is well aware of the wants of the Country. Nov'r 19th CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO COL: DAVIES. Albemarle He has sent his wagon down with the "Stable Jacketts, Felt Hatts, Barracks Over-alls, & what black Stocks" he has—the leather stocks not ready for want of blacking—He has drawn a quantity of "Blue & red cloth from Mr. Dyer's Store" and is having it made into coats for the Infantry. There is a quantity of "Green & white" at the same place, which is to be reserved for the "State Cavalry"—If there is any Linnen at Rich- * mond fit for soldiers' shirts, it should be sent-up at' once—Desires to be furnished with "the uniform of the Different Regiments" as soon as pos- 4 Bible, so that the cloth may be made up accordingly—Wants buttons, as he dislikes issuing clothing without them.
Page 613
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 613 Asks how he is to be paid his salary and what it is fixed at? Is he to 1781. apply to the State or Continent—Capt: John Tebbs should be paid for Nov'r 19th his services as his Assistant, without whom he could not have gotten along in his business, but apprehends he will be obliged to reward him out of his own pay. All the pay he himself has drawn since acting in the Department, is "20.000 Dollars" rec'd last march, a sum that will not defray the traveling expences of one who has had to move as he has done since that time. Some person should have been appointed to continue with the South- ern Army to receive and iesue the clothing sent to the Soldiers of the Virginia Line, and he should -have gone himself, having no power to appoint any one, but that his services were more valuable where he has been acting—After Christmas however, he intends to make "the Army his Station." COL: JOSIAH PARKER TO HON: MR. JAMESON. Nov'r 19th "The Rev: Mr. Andrews the bearer of this has some time since joined Smithfleld, the British Army, from political added to religious principles; was taken I- of at York, paroled & now waits on your board for tryal. When he first came to Virginia my Father's house received him. there I was first honor'd with his acquaintance. he lived in this neighbourhood some time, and ever has supported the character of a worthy clergyman. Although he has actually followed the Enemy and served in his office with them. he has never deviated from the principles of a christian & humane man—ever attentive to the calls of our distressed prisoners, he has even interested himself so far as to receive abuse from his repeated applications in their behalf. Mrs. Andrews is a bigot in favor of Ameri- can Independence. She has been abused by the British Army & rather than remain with them, she quited Portsmouth long before the British Army left it. Any inconveniences Mr. Andrews may labour under from his attention to the Enemy, may add to the distresses of his wife & fam- ily—indeed I am convinced that was he again liberated and with the Enemy, his attention & services to our unfortunate prisioners, would exceed any services he cou'd render the Enemy Your useing your influ- ence in his favor, will probably releive a distressed family and send a man who has never done amiss, except in differing in opinion from us. with respectful sentiments, I have the honor to be, Dr. Sir, Your obedient Servt." Capt: H. Young informs Col: Davies, he has procured a quantity of Nov'r 19th leather for equipping Colo. Baylor's Regiment, but "it wants currying" and "Parks refuses to do it," unless he is paid in specie.
Page 614
614 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR RICH: CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES. Nov'r 30th Richmond Expresses his regret at not being able to furnish the Hospitals with stoves or wood. The stoves and pipes were destroyed by the Enemy when they got to Richmond, and now the workmen are so busy in refit- ting "the 3d Regiment of Horse" for the field, that there is no possi- bility of repairing them at present. Accordingly all he can do, is to direct the Dep: Q. Master at Wtnsburg to have the public stores brought from York Town, and the officer at Fredericksburg to send pipes from from Hunter's Works—Coal will be sent from Richmond, in lieu of wood. He has not a wagan to spare, all being needed for the Southern Army. Recommends getting oxen and carts left at York, but fears this will prove a "poor shift" as the cattle had "horrid times at the seige"— Concludes—" Sorry am I that your agents are in similar situation with those of the Quarter Master General. Where there is no inducement, there is little or no ambition—for from long experience with a number of public agents, I have found that where there is not proper means to carry on the business, and a tolerable prospect for compensation, few act with alacrity." ***** "I have written to the Assistant Deputy Q. Master at this post, to pay immediate attention to the situation of the cattle, both as to their being dispersed, and in want of feed." Nov'r 20th Ba1DGER HAYNIE TO Gov: NELSON, informing him the twenty hhds: of Rum, impressed by Ed: Walden, belonging to the French Prize driven ashore at Smith's Point, and stored in his Commissary house at North'd Court House, by order of Col: Winder Kenner, is still there. Northum- Desires instructions in regard to it, As the French have not sent for it land he imagines they are not in want of Rum. Nov'r 20th J. MADISON JNR: ED: RANDOLPH & JAS: JONES, DELEGATES TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Philadelphia Our Letter of the 17th by Capt: Irish contains those communica- tions which would otherwise have been the subject of this weeks corres- pondence. We have now to acknowledge the receipt of Mr. Andrews' Letter of the 9th conveying to us the disagreeable information of your Excellen- cies indisposition, from which however, he gives us reason to hope you will be soon recovered, and able to repair to Richmond—The requests contained in his Letter respecting the Guard and provisions furnished by the State for the security and support of the British prisoners at Winchester, shall
Page 615
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 615 be attended to and answered as soon as it is in our power. We are 1781. informed the British fleet have all returned to the Hook, the Troops Nov'r 20th landed on Staten Island, and that sixteen of the ships of war are to repair to the W. Indies, the others to continue at N. York. Wo are respectfully, Sir, Yr: most obedt Servts." JONATHAN PARK TO COL: DAVIES giving reasons why he cannot get Nov'r 20th boots & shoes made. There is no leather tanned fit for cavalry boots, it having been all Richmond destroyed by the Enemy. He will make every exertion however, and if Capt: Young will furnish the oil & Tallow, at the rate of one pint oil to each side and 3J lbs Tallow to tho Gall: of oil, with the usual pay" in Specie or raw Hides," the leather shall be curried immediately. ALEX: MARTIN, LT: GOV'R, TO Gov: NELSON. Nov'r 20th "Sir, I did myself the Honour in my last to inform your Excellency of Salem, N. 0. the capture of Governor Burke, and of the Government of this State devolving on me, as Speaker of the Senate for- the Time being; and therein took occasion to mention the great necessity this State was in for want of Lead, but have not yet been favoured with any Answer from your Excellency—Permit me Sir, again to repeat my Solicitations for that article, so essentially necessary in our military Operations against the Enemy. Our militia are in the Field against a British Post in this State, which we flatter ourselves to reduce in Time, but are ill served with ammunition. The Conductor of the mines, I am informed has Instructions to issue no Lead to any person, but by your express Orders. Please then Sir, to issue your Orders to him to supply this State with two Tons of Lead, and that he deliver the same to such person I shall intrust for that Pur- pose, and for the Payment thereof, I hereby pledge the Faith of the State. I have the Honour to be with the highest Respect and Esteem Your Excellency's Most obedient, humble Servant." JOHN HICKMAN Co. LIEUT: TO COL: DAVIES. Nov'r 21st He has rec'd his order for fifty of the militia to act as guard to the King Wm. Prisoners to Fredericksburg, but he has neither arms or ammunition —
Page 616
616 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Most of the men in the County have been in the service, since Genl: Nov'r 21st Leslie's first invasion of the State, and he prefers they be excused, but if they must be had, order the Arms &. ammunition, and the number needed shall be had. Nov'r 2lst CAPT: THOS: PARKER TO COL: DA VIES. "Dr. Sir, Accomack I am informed by some gentlemen from Camp that neither your letter (respecting this command) nor mine, reached the Marquis, by which means my situation has been very disagreeable having been furnished by Colo. Cropper the County Lieutenant, with only a few old arms without accoutrements, and a very small quantity of ammunition. This is therefore to request the favor of your transmitting me the neces- sary instructions concerning my command, and an order for such arti- cles as are contained by the enclosed return." * * * * "Arms, accoutrements and ammunition, I expect arc at York, & prob- ably British clothing, which would suit as well here as any Kind, if the soldiers may be allowed to wear them, Being detached from the Army I don't suppose it could be attended with any bad consequence. they are very bare & I fear other Kind continues very scarce. There are now two Lieuts. here, Sarborough & Coverly, and I think I shall have occa- sion for one more. as I expect to have upwards of a hundred men & business enough for them before long. Northampton has not raised its quota of men & the County Lieut: gives me as a reason that he has no orders to do it, and appears to think I have not a right to call on him for them, or any thing else to be fur- nished by that County. I wish therefore to have something respecting these things in my instructions, and am Sir, with due respect & Esteem Your most Obedt & very Humble Servant." Nov'r 21st DAVID Ross TO Gov: NELSON. York Town He is informed "that the British Prisoners at Gloucester are left without a guard & without proper provision being made for their accom- modation and support"—those in health are strolling about and making their escape: the sick suffering for many things—He knew not who is in charge of that department—At the instance of the Count Viomenil in command at York, he sends Capt. Eddins to lay this matter before the Executive. He hopes to finish his business and leave for Richmond the next day. Finds such great difficulty in getting sailors in Virginia to man the ships, that he will be obliged to order one there to the head of Elk or Baltimore. Capt: Maxwell goes up to engage the men & may take com- mand of one himself.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 617
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 617 CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Col: Armand has applied to him for a supply of shoos, and to repaira "number of Boots for his cavalry, indeed his demands increase, but shall not be allowed unless under positive orders. Requests instructions in this matter as his requests will increase with the indulgences ho receives from the State. The Tailors are all idle for want of thread; and he is much annoyed that so much delay shuld be occasioned by so small a matter, especially as timely notice had been given to Mr. Armstead, of the want of this important article. Regrets he had not written himself to Mr. Hay or Mr. Ross. Expresses great anxiety at not receiving "the boot-leggs" ordered. Cannot a supply of leather be gotten at the Warwick Tannery, as the Cavalry are much in want of them. 1781. Nov'r 22d Albemarle Barracks DAVID Ross TO COL: DA VIES. "Sir, I take the liberty of addressing you on a subject which, tho' out of the line of my Department, is nonc the less interesting to tho publick weal & requires your interference. I was informed yesterday that tho British Prisoners at Gloucester were in a very disagreeable situation—the sick & wounded in want of every necessary—those that are recovered, allowed to go at largo & to make their escape. no American Officer nor Guard to take any notice of them, nor any Commissary of Prisoners. Upon this information, I requested the favour of Capt: Eddins to go over the River & see tho real situation of matters £ to make such temporary arrangements as the nature of the case required—this he informs me is done & confirms the above representation, which I dare say justiffies my sending an express, and giving you the trouble of this letter." * * * * I have the Honor to be, with great Respect Your most hum: Serv't." Nov'r 22d York LIEUT: STEPHEN SOUTHALL TO HON: DAVID JAMESON. Nov'r 22d He was ordered to this Post. to take command of a Company of Artil- Cumberland lery. but has not his commission—Has made several ineffectual efforts to get it, and cannot "think of marching without it"—He was appointed 1st Lieut: in the IstRegt: Continental Artillery on January 28th 1781— Col: Harrison in Richmond will corroborate this statement. Old C. H. 78
Page 618
618 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Nov'r 22d Ayletts Reuben Turner informs Major Claiborne, he has made every effort to remove tho sick Prisoners from Todd's Bridge—All have now gone except about one hundred—The difficulty in procuring wagons has delayed their removal—Had he known the character of the business. he would ncver have undertaken it, for he is opposed to taking his neigh- bor's cart and team by force, and paying him nothing for it—concludes— "Any kind of business that I can do for my country without infringing on the rights of my countrymen I am willing to undertake, but no other." Hanover Town Nov'r 22d Doct: G. Wilson writes to Col: Davies, that a party of British Pris- oncrs have been brought to New Castle a few days before, by some French officers, who left them there. They are now at that place, about two hundred in number—In regard to their behavior, he has heard of no complaints against them; perhaps it may have been in the eountry through which they had been allowed to pass without guards over them Nov'r 22d JAS: HUNTER TO COL: O. TOWLES. Dear Sir, Stafford Co. "I design to be at Richmond next week, when I hope to have the pleasure of seeing & confering with you & shall think myself happy if thro' your & Col: Davies means, my works can be any way serviceable to the State, mean time I thank you for your attention & good offices for their safety during the Invasion, & for the assistance of some Draught artificers you was pleased to send there to forward the stores for the Southern Army. Since the Assembly extended the like indulgence to my workmen as those employed in the Public Factories, I have resumed the manufactory of small arms—Workmen are puting the machinary for grind'g & boring &c. in order, & artificers collecting, which may be improved to the benefit of the State (and myself, am hitherto a consid- erable sufferer) but I trust thro' Col: Davies, will be put on such a foot- ing, as I may receive something solid to pay wages & buy Provisions (my own being deliver'd the Public) & to pay the first cost of the mate- rials wanted, if my labour & propt. is with held. Be pleased to inform him, that in consequence of his orders, one trav- eling Forge w'th its utensils & Harness complete, has been ready for some weeks & notice given Mr. Young the D. Q. M. to send for it. & I have also in hand a Thousand Horseman's Swords, to the pattern for- warded from Genl: Greene's Army by order of Colo: Washington— there are also about 500 Bridle Bits & a number of curry combs &c., of which I shall be more particular when I see my manager & communicate when I see you at Rich'nd. On the whole I shall be ready to do every-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 619
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 619 thing in my power to answer the views of the Com'rs of War Office, if 1781. the Assembly will stipulate a certain & proper paym't. Nov'r 22d in haste, I am with real Regard & Esteem D'r Sr. yr. most obed't Serv't." CAPT: H. YOUNG TO COL: DAVIES. Nov'r 22d "Dr. Sir, Be pleased to hear what Capt: Thompson has to say relative Richmond the state of our little Navy, and let me entreat you once more to lay before the Council my distressed situation for the want of two Barrels of Tar. Mr. Hay will have nothing to do with the matter. I have offer'd Brown (who is the only person that has Tar) his price in specie, or two barrels of Tar for one, both of which offers he has refused. Our waggons can't run for the want of Tar. I am yr. Obt. Hble. servant." Wm. Hay, Asst: Commercial Agent, certifies, that he has bought of Nov'r 22d Mr. Alex: Nelson fifty-six barrels of Alum salt, containing two hundred Richmond and ten bushels, "at the rate of two hundred pounds of Tobacco", and for the barrels, at the "rate of seven shillings & three pence specie, Vir- ginia money." MAJOR CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES, expressing his great concern at the Nov'r 23d condition of the Sick and other prisoners, at Ayletts, and at Hanover Co. House. He should go in person to look after them, but that the duties of his Richmond Office will not permit it. He is urging the Agents in the different Departments to render their accounts and returns as promptly as pos- sible. A large quantity of Clothing, Spirits and medicine, is ready to be transported to the Southern Army from Richmond by way of Peytons- burg in Pittsylvania Co., and Col: Carrington has been urging their dis- patch, but he is utterly at a loss what to do for want of wagons. Capt Young to whom he has applied can afford him no assistance. The last six wagons and teams intended solely for the use of the Post at Rich- mond, have been sent to transport the stores for Genl: St. Clair's Troops.
Page 620
620 CALENDAR OF.STATE PAPERS. 1781. COL: CHAS. DABNEY TO Co1, DAVIES, in regard to recruiting his Regi- Nov'r 24th ment. Portsmouth Hopes the "Assembly" will fall on some steps to fill it up"—the rais- ing men with paper money entirely at an end at present, but thinks it can be done, by giving a bounty of five or six pounds in specie pr: man. Under all the difficulties, he has enlisted upwards of thirty men for the War, since August last. Nov'r 24th J. PRENTIS TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Williamsb'g At the request of the Common Hall of this City, I am to inform your Excellency, that a number of Persons who were formerly residents of this Town, and who joined the British Army, have, since Lord Corn- wallis' Reduction, returned here; and are at this time, quietly enjoying the privileges and advantages of good citizens, which we cannot con- ceive they are entitled to. I have inclosed a List of such of them as can be recollected at present, and have no doubt but that some mode will be adopted by the Executive to enquire into this matter. I am with every sentiment of Esteem & Respect Yr: Excellency's most ob't S'vt. "Jacob Williams Joseph Thompson Henry Drake Watson Benj. Bucktrout James Hubard jnr: Wm. Hill James Ross" Nov'r 26th CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Dear Sir, Hanover I have provided a Vessel and sent Mr. Reynolds down for the Town Arms in Glostre, York, Wmsburg and other places, with directions to store them at New Castle, which place is more convenient to Rich'nd than this, and much less inconvenient, on Account of Navigation. Capt: Bowne I have requested to go immediately down after the can- non at the Western branch, and to have them bro't up as soon as possi- ble to Richmond, and am now on my way to reconnoitre the situation of the cannon at Taylor's Ferry & Hanover Co. Ho:— As the necessity for Conductors ceases, I shall discontinue them, those I have already discontinued are Mr. Maupin, Mr. Davios, & Mr. Frazer, giving them certificates for their time of service &e— j
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 621
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 621 So soon as I see into the probability of getting these cannon out of the 1781. River & moving them, 1 shall come over and have some serious conver- Nov'r 26th sation on the subject of the proposals you did me the honor to make me, when I was last at Richm'd. I do imagine that an entire new fabrication of the System had better take place, and upon such principles as will ensure the faithful execution of the business by those who will engage in it— I am D'r Sir, With the highest Esteem & Respect Your most ob. Servant." CAPT: A. BOHANNAN TO HON: WM. DAVIES. Nov'r 26th He regrets that leave of absence of his Assistant, Mr. Kenaday, puts Richmond it out of his power to settle his accounts at the last of the month, but is quite willing his pay shall cease at that time—He has sent to Mr. Jordan, his assistant "sit Irvins", for an inventory of all the stores in that part of the State, to be ready by the end of the month—Concludes "I have to return you my warmest thanks for the particular attention you have paid to my interest & convenience. The interest of the State has been the particular object of my attention, and your approbation to my conduct while in the department, does me the highest Honour— I have the honor to be, with every Sentiment of gratitude and respect"—&c. A. Ross, AID DE CAMP TO LD: CORNWALI.IS, TO MAURICE SIMONS ESQR. Nov'r 26th - of Charles Town So: Carolina, now at W'msburg Va. "Sir, Lord Cornwallis lost no time after his arrival here, in mentioning New York your business to Admiral Digby; and the Admiral, at his request has agreed to grant Passports for sending 3 or 400 Hhds: of Tobacco from the Chesapeake to Charles Town, for the purpose of discharging the debts contracted by the American Prisoners there, provided you send to him, an exact description of the Vessels intended to be employed & the number of their crew: And they will be limited in their time of Sailing— If it shou'd appear to you that it will be difficult or tedious to trans- port the Tobacco under these restrictions, His Lordship has desir'd me to inform you, that if you think proper to come to this place, he will ask the Admiral to grant Passports to such vessel or vessels as you shall hire here, to go to the Chesapeake to load & carry to Charles Town a certain quantity of Tobacco for the purpose abovemention'd. But in case you take this resolution, it will be necessary that you should pro-
Page 622
622 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. cure from the French & Americans, protection for such vessel or vessels Nov'r 26th to return to New York—I am, Sir, your most obed't & most h'ble Serv't." (Copy) Nov'r 26th HENRY ERVIN TO THE GOVERNOR. Rockingbam "I must Beg Leave to Inform your Excellency That agreeably to your Instructions and request in august Last past when our Camps ware in Distressed circumstances for want of Teams, I sent Four from this County. Which Teams I have now Reason To Believe are not like to Be Sent Back To the owners, which apparently to me will Be attended with abad consequence, as at that critical period I was oblidged to apply to our Best Friends In the cause, and informing them of the great needees- sity of Teams at the Time chearfully gave them up to serve their coun- try, Being assured by Me That They would not Be Detaincd longer than to serve a tower of 2 or 3 months. as I had not at y't time, the Least Reason to believe otherwise. Now should these Teams not be Restored to the owners again I doubt it will not be in my Power at any other Time, should ye needeessity be ever so great, supply the Public with Teams. as every person now is apprehensive That perhaps Their Teams may be Detaincd in like manner—Which it Is plain and obvious that It must be very Distressing upon those individuals who Haveing their waggons and horses only for their own private use on their farms at home, and Especially at this Day, when Paper Currency Is so far Depreciated, as scarcely to make any purchase at all, But of this your Excellency Is undoubtedly fully Sensible, and that I be not farther tedious, I shall Refer you to the bearer Capt: Cravens for particulars." I am Sir, with Respect, yr: most ob't Servant." Nov'r 26th MAJOR R. CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAViES, requesting an order for some Forage in the possession of Rich'd Taylor Esq'r in King William Co. impressed by Gov: Nelson's authority. Richmond Issues of Forage for riding horses have been stopped at this Post, and the supply for the wagon teams nearly out. This is becoming a serious want not only at Richm'd but throughout the State. Concludes, "If we allow the specifies to be exhausted. and the department to be with- out money, which is too evident to admit of a contradiction, I confess myself at a loss how to cany on the Transportation, and to feed the saddle horses that must be indispensably kept to perform the riding business within the department. I have further to observe that unless some general and immediate supply of forage is provided by Govern- ment, the issues throughout the department, must be put a total stop to, except to wagon and riding horses, that cannot be done without."
Page 623
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 623 JNO. ROBERTSON, SUP: ISSUING DEPART'NT OF VA. TO COL: DAVIES. He is sorry to hear "the public cattle arc in such a bad situation," owing to the want of competent persons to overlook and assist in taking care of them—On this account great numbers were scattered and lost during the past summer. Mr. Garrett who was appointed chief director was deprived of his guard and left with only one soldier, and at this time has no more men to take care of four hundred cattle—Application was made to persons to assist in the business, but no one would under- take it unless their pay was guaranteed—Upon hearing of this condition of things, and knowing that most of the cattle belonged to "the Conti- nent" he had communicated with Colo's Blaine & Stewart. They have appointed Colo. Finnie at Wmsburg to have them all collected at that place—Those fit for use to be slaughtered and salted and the remainder sold—But unless speedy measures are taken to procure salt and fowarded to the places of slaughter, there will be great loss. In Gloucester, the cattle are dying daily in numbers; the fattest die first, owing to "a dis- temper that prevails among them." Salt alone is wanting to save a very large quantitj7 of Beef. Since the beginning of the Seige, he has been constantly employed at Camp and at this place, but in a few days he will be at Richmond, pre- pared to close his accounts for the War Department. 1781. Nov'r 26th York A. KIRKPATRICK TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Sir, In behalf and at the request of the Inhabitants of this place, I have taken the liberty of writing to you, respecting the British pris- oncrs quartered here, who are daily committing some wanton destruc- tion either on public or private property. two nights ago the broke open the Issuing house and took out Several Barrels of flour—they have burnt three good houses already, that was empty, all fencing within half a mile of town and most pailing around their gardens. the people are exceeding distressed—there was 135 prisoners left a considerable time ago, 78 sent up lately with a guard from Williamsburg with orders to leave them here, and no guard has ever been with them. so great a number and few Inhabitants, they do as they please—there was a largo party a few days ago at Elliotts warehouse (and I believe some of them is there still) with a considerable guard, the officer of wh. offered to take these if the was brought to him,—but no person here would under- take to give orders for their Removal, though the Inhabitants here offered to guard them there. I would not wish to dictate to you, but I think these ought to join the others and one guard would answer, or have a guard over them here—I have purty well recovered my health— I am with Respect & Esteem" yrs: &c. Nov'r 26th Hanover Town
Page 624
624 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Capt: John Peyton informs Col: Davies, he is unable to supply the Nov'r 26th coats for Capt: Dunn's Troop, the doth being all used up. The Black Albemarle Stock, Stable Jackets and over-alls are all sent to Richmond—Is in great Barracks want of sewing thread. Nov'r 2»th DOCT'R MATHEW POPE TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Sir, Richmond The wretched situation of the sick and wounded in this State, for want of a proper Hospital to receive them, compels me to represent their sufferings to you, in hopes some mode will be fallen upon for their relief—Humanity and good Policy strongly urge the providing a proper House for the reception of these miserable and unhappy objects, many of whom deserve your care and attention and who are now strolling about the Country, attended with a heavy expence to the Public, having no asylum to resort to—A Temporary Log House has been attempted to be built for an Hospital. it remains unfinished to the present hour, and would be insufficient for the purpose it was intended, provided it was compleated. at present there are ten men confined in a small room, the roof of which leaks like a Riddle, so that when it rains, the sick might as well be out of doors—The Country is sustaining a heavy daily expence for a few wounded militia in the Hospital at Williamsburg, all which might be saved, had we a proper place to remove them to. it being my duty to represent this matter to you, I flatter myself no apology is necessary for the liberty I have taken. Humanity strongly and immediately requires that they should either be better provided for hero, or conveyed to their Friends, such as have any, as their present miserable place of confinement. must inevitably and speedily destroy them. No clothes, no Blanketts to cover them at this inclement season of the year, Felons in most countries are more comfortably provided for. I am, with sincere esteem and Respect your most ob't Serv't." Nov'r 26th COL: GARRET VAN METER TO Gov: NELSON,—informing him, "that Robert Smith one of the Ringleaders of the late insurrection in this County hath voluntarily surrendered himself." Hampshire Having been examined by a called court "hath been set for further °' trial," but in as much as "the same ignorance and unaccountable infatu- ation" seems to extend to this unhappy man "that actuated those deluded people, and although he was the worst of thom, he hopes, if it be consistent with wisdom that he may also "experience the lenity of the Legislature"—A few of ''the deluded wretches" still remain out, particularly a certain John Woolf, who had broken Jail, and has ncver been seen since—He has taken every means to have them all appre- hended—He will, at the command of His Excellency call a Court of
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 625
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 625 Oyer & Terminer for the trial of Smith and others, but hopes the Legis- 1781. lature may "incline to pass an act of indemnity for the whole of them." Nov'r 26th Is much in need of a copy of the new Militia Law and the Articles of War, not being able to "try delinquents" in consequence—Asks for a number of blank commissions to supply the new nominations made— His declining health forces him to resign his commission as Co. Lieu- tenant, but as Mr. Joseph Nevill who has been recommended to succeed him cannot act until commissioned, he will endeavour to act until Mr. Nevill qualifies, especially as Col: Cresap, next in command lives in so remote a part of the County. He sends this by Mr. Woodrow, as an Express, as neither of the Delegates are going down, and hopes his expenses will be allowed. SIR JOHN PEYTON TO Gov: NELSON, enclosing letter from Isaac Ab: & Nov'r 28th Andr. Van Bibber of Baltimore, in regard to his purchase of muskets from them for the State, at a time when arms were very much needed. He contracted upon his own responsibility to pay sixty thousand dol- lars Continental currency or specie, at the rate of ninety for one for "two hundred and odd stand of arms"—Payment had been made in State money, which they refusing, was sent back to Virginia to be exchanged for Continental. Since that time nothing has been done in the matter, and the Vanbibbers are still unjustly left unpaid—He thinks it "exceedingly hard" that he a Vanbibber should be allowed to suffer loss, and concludes "indeed, should it be so, it will determine me never to give myself any trouble or concern whatever in publick affairs for the future: I have already been at a good deal of trouble & expence in send- ing twice to Richmond and going once myself-" Gloucester Co. JAM KS ANDERSON TO COL: DAVIES, requesting that shoes & clothing be Nov'r 28th furnished his Artificers. Desires to know whether he is to remove to the Point of Fork in any Richmond short time—also whether the Artificers enlisted by Capt: Pryor for the Continent, and handed over to him, and have not reported should not be advertised—Unless steps be taken to "bring them to their duty" he shall lose the whole of them. JOHN EVANS Co. LIEUT. TO Gov: NELSON—asking for blank commissions Nov'r 29th for officers appointed—making requisition for some Paper, adding "I have acted as Lieut: of Monongalia some years Past and never have been found any by the State, and the Expence of paper in this County are Considerable and not be had." 79
Page 626
626 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. "A LIST OF REFUGEES CONFINED IN THE PROVOST, OF TREASON AGAINST Nov'r 29th THE STATE:" Pr. Anne Co Saml: Craft—for bearing arms against the country. Rolly Grimstead Do & forcing others into the service John Brown, for treasonable practices— Thomas Grimstead—for bearing arms against the county Ethered Grimstead for Do: James Weaver—for Treasonable practices William Hutchins—for bearing arms against the county. Southern Cartwrite for do: Elias Davis for Do: Tecle Clay "Do John Cooper "Do From Norfolk County— James Gammon—for bearing arms against the country. Solimen Stewart" Do: James Gammon Sikes do: Elias Sikes Do. Isom Comboo—for going with tho Enemy John Jasper """ Nov'r 30th Bail Bonds of "Richard Barr and Peter Butt of County of Nofolk, Richmond shoemaker and mariner"—Richard Hogg, and Gabriel Galt of the Town of Richmond, "Tavern keepers"—Wm. Skinner of Norfolk Co. mariner, John Cox and Zachariah Rowland of Town of Richmond, merchants, in default "of one thousand pounds specie," each, "for their personal appearance at the State House in the Town of Richmond" to take their trials "before the Supreme Executive, for disaffection to the Common- wealth of Virginia"— "Signed Seal'd and Delivered," in presence of ADAM GRAIG H. W. ROSE." Nov'r 30th Peter Davis, Clerk Q. M. Dep: replies to Col: Davies, that he is unable Richmond to furnish a wagon for the use of the Cavalry at Petersburg, because four of the six attached to this post are gone "with spirits for the Southern Army," and the others are employed "in bringing forage and the slaughtered Beeves to this Post."
Page 627
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 627 MAJOR WM. CROGHAN TO COL: WM. DAVIES. 1781. "D'r Colonel, . Nov'r 30ih Last August I done myself the pleasure of writing you Philadelphia from Fort Pitt—And the first of October, nattering myself I was Exchanged Settout to Join the Army at the Seige of York, but finding I was not, came to this city Immediately after seeing Lord Cornwallis' army lay down their arms." * * * * * * "I have gave up the thought of returning to Virginia untill January or untill Informed of my Exchange, when I hope we will have our Regiments in such order, as to numbers &c, as we may expect commands, by which some reputation may be acquired—which the Troops and others who arrived here from Virginia will by no means allow us—I labour hard with many of them to support the credit of the old Dominion, but I fear to little purpose, as they seem much prejudiced against us." ****** "I suppose you know that General Lincoln is appointed Secretary of War—Tis said a Vessell with Forty British officers on parole from Vir- ginia, for New York was over sett or wracked near Egg Harbour & that the whole perished. General Washington arrived here a few days ago, tis expected he will stay here some time. If during my stay in this city, I can render any service to your or Friends, pray command me." ***** "Direct for me at Mr. Barnard Gratzes', merchant, Market street. Your most obe't Servant." CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Nov'r — He has given proper directions to Capt: Bowne to apply to Mr. Ross New Kent or Commodore Barron for vessels, to bring up the whole of the arms ** and other mil: stores at York, Gloster & Wmsburg to Richmond, also to send down Mr. Royall with proper vessels "to take the cannon up from the land'g where Colo. Newton has drawn them. He has been expecting the return of Mr. Frazer, who was to call at Bird's Ordinary and enquire for him, but has neither seen or heard anything of him. He takes the liberty of "calling on his mother and some other friends" which will make it Saturday before reaching Richmond, which he hopes "will not be attended with any inconveniency to the Public business" &c. LIEUT: JAMES ARTHUR TO THE Gov: OF VIRGINIA. Nov'r — Genl: Gist had left him in charge of some sick soldiers of the Mary- land Line, who "are in want of every thing necessary for their comfort
Page 628
628 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. & convenience & without a surgeon & necessarys are immediately fur- Nov'r— nished, they undoubtedly will die"—He has applied to every surgeon in the place,' and to the Quartermasters for wine, tea,' sugar &c in vain, and "he cannot get a person in Town to credit the Country"—He therefore appeals to his Excellency for aid to relieve their sufferings. Nov'r — "MEMORIAL OF THE OFFICERS OF THE VIRGINIA LINE, TO NOV'R SESSION OF ASSEMBLY 1781."* "To the Honorable the House of Delegates of Virginia" The Memorial of the subscribers humbly sheweth, That your memorialists are officers of the quota raised by this Com- monwealth for the Army of the United States, and have served in it, as such for more than six years past. We wish not to detail to you, the hardships and dangers we or our Soldiers have sustained during that length of Service; it is sufficient whatever may have been our difficulties, it will always afford us a pleasing reflection that we trust the State has received material advantages from them, and we are happy that we can call the world to witness the affection we have borne for our Country, and the patience we have manifested, tho' the situation of a Virginia Officer and Soldier has rendered them a Spectacle in the eyes even of the American Army. Reduced however, in our fortunes, our years of active life gliding fast away, our present situation almost wholly destitute of public support, and an indigent, painful prospect before us, our condition, under these circumstances has become too serious to admit of a longer silence. That our pay has at length dwindled to nothing, that many faithful and excellent Officers have already been expelled from your service, that your soldiers have deserted in multidudes, and that the few that remain, whether Officers or privates, are with the greatest difficulty kept together in the field, are truths too melancholy to be recited, but too notorious to be doubted. The Officers of your Line, however, have too' firm a confidence in the justice of your honorable house, to allow the reflection that you will suffer their honest services to be longer forgotten, or permit the hopeless widow or fatherless orphan of the faithful veteran, who has already offered up his blood in your defence, to perish in the land he died to defend. A considerable number of the officers of the line, have therefore expressly requested, and deputed us, in behalf of themselves and their Soldiers, in the most respectful terms to state their greivances, and to assure your Honorable house, that they are already reduced to so distressful a situation, that they can never think of con- tinuing in a service, where the singular poverty of their circumstances *This document altho' without signatures evidently eminated from the Committee of Continental Officers, elsewhere recorded, as having been appointed for this purpose.
Page 629
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 629 will not only subject them to all.the miseries of abject penury, but mark 1781. them out for the contempt of lines of other States. When we first Nov'r - entered into the Army, the provision that was made for us, was suffi- cient, considering the prospects of the period in which it was estab- lished—The inveteracy of your and our enemies led our Country to more vigorous exertions: those exertions produced heavy expences, and those expences operated to the suspension of many of our valuable privilages; which however, we resigned without a murmer, and con- tented ourselves with our reduced ration of provision and forage, abridged as well in its quantity as its composition. The depreciation of our wages however, was an evil, under which the most precise economy was scarcely sufficient to support us; and although Congress from time to time interfered, yet permanent relief was not in their power to afford. The justice due the Troops was a matter more easily affected by the several States to whom they belonged, and to them therefore Congress ultimately referred it; and although it is a moltifying consideration to us, while every state north of us has long since done that justice to Iheir Officers and Soldiers which we are now asking for, that we should still find ourselves unattended to. yet we trust we are not assuming, when we assert an equal merit from our services, with other troops in the Union; and we are prone to indulge the hope, that no deficiency on our part, either of duty to our Country or respect to your honorable house has occasioned so late a recognition of our distresses, or so long withheld the efficacious interposition of the Legislature for our relief—To state the situation of your Troops more particularly, and to furnish some Idea of our past and present difficulties, we beg leave to direct your attention to a deduction of our pay from the end of the year '76, from which period wo claim our depreciation according to the resolutions of Congress. For this purpose, we conceive it will be sufficient at this time to state tho allowances to a Colonel of a Regiment, a Captain of a Company and a private Centinel through the various intervening stages. In this caleulation we shall proceed upon the fairest principles, and shall • be governed in our appreciation of the nominal pay of these three classes of soldiers, by the scale ascertained by the Pennsylvania Assem- bly in July '80, at which time they settled the accounts of their line of troops. since that period we shall conform as much as possible to the Scale settled by authority, in this State— At the conclusion of '76 the whole allowance for pay and retained rations as they then stood for A Colonel, was 90 Dollars and 2 s. 6d.-\ A Captain " 45 Dollars and 2 s. 6d. >• a month— A Private 7 Dollars and 4 s. 3d. ) In January following, the depreciation commenced, and the sums before mentioned, extended in Specie, then amounted to no more, for
Page 630
630 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. A Colonel than 60 Dollars and 9d.^ Nov'r — A Captain 30 Dolls: and 9d. I a month A Private 5 Do. and lOd.) It continued still to depreciate till May 1778, at which time, the monthly pay extended as before. had fallen for A Colonel to 18 dollars and 6d.-\ A Captain 9 do. an' 6d. V a month— A Private 9s. 3d.' Congress then made an alleviation in the wages of the Officers, but not of the Soldiers—This additional allowance extended in Specie, made the pay of A Colonel 31 Dollars & 18d. A Captain 15 do. No change was afterwards made in the nominal pay, till August '79, at which time, the monthly wages had depreciated down to 6i dollars & 2.s. for a Colonel 3J do: & 2.s. for a Captain. And 2.s. for a private. The pay was then raised a second time, and the wages of a Colo. made equal to 22 J dollars & 4.s. % A Captain 12 dollars | a month— A Private 5.s.3 r a month— The depreciation still run on till July '80, when it had reduced the pay of A Colonel to 9 dollars -\ A Captain 3J do: > a month A Private to 18d. J Congress in August following, interfered once more, and made the pay of A Colonel, equal to 61J dollars -x A Captain ' 31 Do. V a month. A Private 4J do 3 Here ended the Agency of the Congress, who had, so long before as the 17th August '79 recommended it to the different States to make a compensation to their troops for the deficiency of their wages. No attention however, was paid to it by this State: indeed, so far from regarding the hardships of our situation, that the line has never received their pay since the conclusion of that year, not even in the current paper. It is now two years and three months since that resolution was passed, and instead of the compensation we had a right to hope for, we find our wages dwindled into the most despicable insignificance: a Colo-
Page 631
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 631 nel's pay is not more than 3J dollars a month, a Captains 10. (shillings, 1781. and a Privates 16 pence; or in other words, the pay of a Colonel of a Nov'r — regiment is equal to 3d a day, a Captain of a company 4d, and a private soldiers' to two farthings. In a situation so comfortless, what can you expect from your Officers and soldiers! Can your honorable house refrain from sympathy with men in such deplorable circumstances? Bad as the money was, it might have been of some service, if we could have got it when it was due, but while we served to the northward, we never received it till after two or three months arrears. and since we returned from thence the greater part of the troops have never received anything at all. We know it has been alleged, and we have reason to believe that many credit it, that our soldiers and ourselves have drawn large supplies of cloathing and other necessaries from the public stores. We are per- suaded that great expences on that score, were incurred by the State, and we are induced to believe that ample supplies were procured. that they were not appropriated to our soldiers, their unparrelled sufferings have long since taught us. Cold and nakedness have swept off four fold more of your troops, than all the malice of a cruel enemy has ever been able to destroy. That the officers suffered greatly themselves all the army can testify. We therefore think ourselves bound in duty to ask from your honorable house, that a strict enquiry be made into the application and distribution of those stores. We were once afraid that the justice of our country had been lulled to sleep. As free citizens of a great Commonwealth, we express our high satisfaction that the spirit of enquiry has gone forth. We ask that our own accounts may be scru- tinized, and that the draughts of each officer may be impartially stated and relative justice obtained among all those, who under any pretence whatever, have drawn supplies from the public store, prior to the sup- pression of it—This enquiry indeed, justice to the State, as well as to your troops, we have not a doubt. will induce your honorable body to direct. Your memorialists beg leave further to represent, in the most respect- ful terms, that many of your Officers, who have been entrusted with money by the authority of government, for public purposes, have found it impracticable, from the references made from one to the other, by the Continental and State Auditors, to obtain the settlement and liquidation of their accounts: and there are not wanting, instances whore repeated applications for more than three years, have as yet, proved unsuccessful. Wo cannot refrain from expressing in the strongest terms the pain we feel at the peculiar indignity of our condition. when we reflect, that after all the distressing embarrassments to which the neglect of our Country has exposed us, yet, your officers alone, and yours of all the army, should be singled out from among the numerous characters who have drawn of your money, perhaps individually more than the whole
Page 632
632 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. ot your troops together, and who can find access at all times for the set- Nov'r — tlement of their accounts, yet we alone, of all your subjects, we, who receive a daily allowance even the highest ranks among us, equal only to the emoluments of common hirelings, yet we alone, are branded with this very unpleasant mark of distinction, affixed to our characters, that at the same moment that we scarcely receive the smallest assistance from our country, and are actually precluded from a possibility of adjusting our accounts, we are yet subjected to the disgraceful implica- tion of an abuse of trust, and are to be charged with the depreciation upon monies we cannot return. Your Memorialists farther beg leave to represent, that by several Acts and resolutions of the Legislature, certain portions of land, according to the various ranks in the Army, were allotted as a reward for the services of such as should continue to the end of the war; and at the same time the Legislature, taking into consideration the justice of placing their troops upon the same equal footing with the other citizens of the State, and of allowing them the same opportunity of adventuring, assigned for their exclusive advantage, a specified tract of Country, and described its natural boundary lines. Since the Period of that transaction circumstances have greatly altered; and there is a real danger that unless some farther steps are adopted, emigrants may be induced to settle within these limits; and as the extension of the Carolina boundary has cut off a very considerable of what was thus allotted, there seems to be some necessity for the intervention of the Legislature, not only to secure us againt lawless intrusions, but to assign an equal tract of Coun- try to replace the quantity that has thus fallen within the Carolina line—It is our glory to be the free Citizens of a free State. It is our happiness to be the subjects of a Country where the profession of arms cannot be converted to an engine in the hands of hereditary power to endanger the interests or the freedom of the people— The Constitution of the State has wisely placed insuperable barriers against the continuance of authority in the hands of any individual, for such a length of time, as to afford the smallest prospect of a successful attempt for permanent power—Under these impressions your memorial- ists feel themselves sensibly affected at the distinction which at present is held forth between the citizen and the soldier. The objects of our warfare are not the interests of a distinct individual, but of our Country at large; and we conceive it one of the peculiar hardships of our condi- tion, that wo whose profession should oblige us to be foremost in the public defence, should stand in a manner proscribed, and excluded from a full enjoyment of any of the privileges of denization, which are open to our fellow subjects in common; and to which the officers and Soldiers of the Legions in particular have by the express recognition of the Legislature been freely admitted— This and the other subjects of this memorial are matters of the most serious moment to us and the Officers & Soldiers we represent. It would
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 633
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. be attended with too great prolixity to enter minutely into a state of 1781. our situation—Your memorialists therefore humbly pray, that your hon- Nov'r — orable house will be pleased to appoint a Committee for the purpose of confering with your memorialists on the premises, that such measures mo be divised and adopted as justice and the public interest require. and to your house may seem meet. And your memorialists as in duty bound shall ever pray." Turncr Southall certifies that he has administered "the oaths pre- Dcccm'r 1st scribed by law to be taken by a Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia unto Benj: Harrison Esqr" and to Thomas Lomax Esqr as "a Privy Councillor." DAVID Ross TO COL: DA VIES. Decem'r 1st "Sir, Your letters of the 20th & 21st ult: were delivered to me yesterday Petersburg in Williamsburg on my way up—Having my horses stolen from York, I was obliged to leave my papers & other baggage to be forwarded by waggons—I cannot say with certainty the amt. of the Tob: contracts— I rem'br the Continental debt is £13000—sterling—the State debt is inconsiderable, as there was no great value of goods suitable for the Army, after the officers were furnished, indeed some of the last Brigades that were supplied were forced to take up womens' wear to make up their proportion in value—I secured all the coarse woollens there was. I call'd here to deliver Cotton for 128 Blankets for Colo. White's Regi- ment, at the particular request of G. Washington. there was not a single Blanket at York, the British army had made use of cotton during the seige. Since I have been down I have dispatched three Vessels to St. Thomas with Tobacco & ordered Blankets, coarse Cloths coarse linnen & light canvass in particular. perhaps three weeks may bring us a return of some of these articles." * * * * * * * "The French Troops taking possession of every house in York, obliged me to send off what goods 1 had, by any opportunity & one to this place was the first that presented—I shall give orders for forwarding them to Richmond immediately & expect to be there myself on Teusday. I am Sir Your most ob't." P. S. I cannot speak with certainty of salt—1000 bushels were landed at Fredericksburg, but as the Continental people takes the State's prop- erty as they please, it may not be there now." 80
Page 634
634 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Bail Bond of Alexander Montgomery of York Town, Cabinet maker, Decem'r 1st also of John Sturdivant Jnr: of Prince George Co. mariner, in default of "one Thousand Pounds in specie," to make "their personal appear- ance at the State House in the Town of Richmond" to "take their trials before the supreme Executive for Disaffection to the Commonwealth of Virginia." Decem'r 1st Col: J. Skinker, gives reasons why much of the material collected in King George his County for the service was not fortheoming—It was destroyed by the enemy when they landed at Mr. Hoe's and Mr. Washington's on Potomac River, also when they advanced to his own house, he had much removed as he supposed to a safer place. Wishes some "speedier mode" could be adopted for furnishing the County Lieuts: with the Laws "as some of them are very penal." Decem'r 2d Capt: Churchill Jones 3d Regt. Light Dragoons—applying to Col: Petersburg Davies for a supply of "coarse Cotton" as a substitute for blankets, Mr. Ross having none of the latter. Thirty sick soldiers very much in want of them. This will have to answer, until the cloth expected by him from Philadelphia, fit for Cloaks, shall arrive. Decem'r 2d Wm. Rose, keeper of Public Jail, making return of Prisoners in his Richmond charge, Capt: Wm. Skinner, Joseph Shoemaker, John Jarim, John Stur- divant jur.—Wm. Pyner, Lamb Bailey a mulatto, & Mingo, a slave com- mitted on Governor's Warrant, from York Town, and charged with "Disaffection to the State"—also— Richard Barrs, Peter Butt, Alex: Montgomery, Thos: Holt, Thos: Thomas, Peter Springfield, Edmund Window, Newton Connelly, James Hughes, John Logan, John Eagle, Silas Doggett, John Royall, John Hughes, Thos. Watson, Ed: Murphy, John Makins, Lawrence Berry, Littleton Ward, Bassil Jackson, & Thos: Ripley, Refugees taken at York Town, by Capt: Faulkner—also Capt: Gillespie and Joseph Smith, Sea- men—charged "with bringing a protended "Flag" into Rappahaunock." Decem'r 2d NATH'L NELSON TO HON: DAVID JAMESON. Hanover Co. Applying for written authority to recover a horse impressed by Col: Fontaine, for the service "on a particular occasion" when great demand was made for waggon and saddle horses" &c.
Page 635
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 635 COL: CHRIST: FEBIGER TO COL: WM. DAVIES. 1781. "D'r Colonel, Decem'r 3d In my letter to you of the 10th & 11th of last month I Cumberland Old 0 H Inclosed you an Abstract of our effective Return as given in by the Officers after having added the Troops here to them, making each Com- pany 62 men". ***** "I wrote General St. Clair the same Day & Inclos'd him a similar Return—The answer was a peremtory Order to send on 150 men, add- ing a Reprimand for Poulsons Conduct in furloughing the men and offi- cers—I began to arrange matters for marching the men. I wrote his Excellency Governor Xelson on the 16th, poiiiting out to him my Situation with Respect to the small pox and sollicited an answer. I inclosed also a memorial on the Subject from the Inhabitants. in Answer to this I have never been honor'd with a Scrape of a pen—I stopt inoculating any but Mr. Quarls who is gott over it allready. and fortunately none of the men has broke out since, except one old ncgroe who was discovered at the Courthouse this Morning. the Serg't who went Express with the above & also one for you, ncver return'd untill last Monday.—in the Interim the Officers at the Station presented me a memorial of which the inclos'd Let A,* is a Copy, which I send you, least General Scott, or the Committee of the Line, to whom I enclos'd a Copy, that it might be laid before Government, should have omitted it— You'll plainly see from it, that had I even been able to equip the men for the Field, it would be impossible to march them without officers. in Fact my Situation has been truly critical. the men had gott acquainted with the Officers Determination, and it has required all the address I was master of to keep them together. the few Officers who have join'd in consequence of my orders of the 19th instant are equally determined with the Rest, no marching without money. One has allready resign'd; others wrote that they cannot join for want of money and cloaths. of all this I have informed General St. Clair. thus cir- cumstanc'd I don't know what to do. do what I will I am confident of Blame and no Thanks. You'll please to pardon my haveing been so long silent, as I have been continually perplex'd with onc Thing or another. Gaskins' late wretched Detachment has been, through mismanagement in such confusion, that it is hard to gett in any Degree of Order again. after having gott Rolls from every Company specifying every man's name &c., I added to them so as to complete each Company to 62." I then called for a com- mon weekly Return which in some Companys differed 7 or 8 men from the very Rolls I had receiv'd but three or 4 Days before—In conse- quence of which, after issuing some severe orders, I directed a Review of Inspection, which took mo three days to gett, the iuclos'd Return,* * None of these found enclosed as referred to.
Page 636
636 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. which is exact after haveing discharg'd a few men, whose time was Decem'r 3d nearly expired and who could no longer exist in Camp for want of Cloathing, and am really fearful, as Desertion has become a mere matter of sport, that out of the sick, absent and those on Command and Fur- lough, few will ever return. I have hitherto, in hopes of collecting a sufficiency of cloathing to equip the whole, at once postpon'd a Distribution, a few articles excepted. But after personally examining the state of every man present, both sick and well, I find so naked, dirty and miserable, that common human- ity bids me, and I must issue what I have and wait untill you can supply me with the Remainder. in the mean time the greatest care shall be taken to preserve what they gett: But the Overalls are made of such stuff, as also some of the Coats, that I am confident they will not last more than two or three months with the greatest care. at the Review, I found a few shirts, Blanketts and halts: But not a single pair of over- alls or shoes to wear. I wish you were here to see my situation, that in Case of Tryal (for I expect nothing But to gett broke about this sd. Detachment) you might say something in my Favour. I inclose you a Return,* of what the Clothier has on hand previous to a Distribution. From that and my former Return, you will easily see what is wanting. I sincerely wish to gett this Detachment completely equipt before they march, as I am confident, by what I hear from the southward, they will not stand the least chance for a supply there. I must beg you to send us all the shoes you have, as also every other necessary, as soon as possible. is there not a large number of shoes at Charlottesville, besides the other Articles of Cloathing. Cannot a few pair of Boots for the Field & Staff and a few pair of shoes for the other officers be obtained from that place—they are willing to allow a reason- able price for them. I had a considerable number of damag'd cartridges. 1 have melted up the Lead into Buttons. Pray direct Capt: Peyton to send Lieut: Storkly two setts of shoemakers Tools & a parcell of needles and coarse Thread, as also a small quantity of upper Leather. there must be a number of Remnants when the Cloathing is made up. Could those be sent us, they would be of infinite service in mending the men's Cloaths. I have attempted, but in vain, to procure needles and Thread." ****** "I inclose you Returns* from the Surgeon, Qu. Master and Commis- sary Dep'ts from which and the former, Government will be inform'd how we are off, in every respect. The people from whom we borrowed axes, saws &c, (to finish the few Barracks we have) for fear of their bringing the small pox into their Familys have taken away their Tools & now we are as destitute as ever, which makes that Business go on very slow as will appear by Report G*—I have wrote to almost every Quarter Master in the State, to no * None of these found enclosed as referred to.
Page 637
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 637 purpose—I have sent a Waggon to Fredericksburgh, from thence I 1781. expect a few Axes and Camp Kettles— Decem'r 3d there is a number of small haversacks at Carter's Ferry, (some I sent from Phil'a), these I must take, and when I gett needles and Thread must sow two together to make a knapsack—I expect 200 Canteens from Winchester. these are all the articles I can procure with all my Industry—it's impossible to tell you how much I am perplex'd with writing and riding, with innumerable applications from hungry, thirsty, naked and distros'd soldiers, with groans and Lamentations of the sick and convalescent destitute of medicines and proper nourishment, with complaints from the Inhabitants about Hogs, sheep Henroosts et c'ra daily plunder'd by those undisciplin'd wretches that lately join'd, not- withstanding every possible precaution, tho' strictest Orders and severest punishments to prevent it. At the Review I also critically examined the Arms, Accoutrements, et ct.—the Arms arc in general good; But the Cartouch Boxes bad, many on the old Construction and wore out. Some with waist Belts, others without any Belts at all, slung by pieces of rope or other strings—I could therefore sincerely wish, that a quantity of British Arms and Accoutrements, not exceed- ing 600 stand, might be sent me, and I will have the arms and accoutre- ments now here properly pack'd up and sent to what ever place you will direct, and with Repairs, most of them may be made useful—The Loss of Brushes, nives &c, is similar to that of the Blanketts—the Musquetts without Bayonctts are a number that were at the Rendezvous when I took command, and some that the Reg't Quartermaster brought with him. You may depend, that whatever stores are sent to the Rendez- vous, whilst I have charge of it shall be properly taken care off and regularly accounted for— in my Instructions from the Baron, I have the appointment of a Qr. Master, Commissary and Clothier for my assistance—Lt: Smith, my present Qr. Marter is of my appointment, and answers my Expectations Lt: Stockleys Abilities as Clothier, I am not yett well acquainted with, however it seems he made a mistake of two Vests. But Says he can account for them. Patillo made a tolerable Sergeant, but a very Indolent Commissary—I fear he must be superceded—a Serg't of mine acts as Forage Master & Waggon Conductor and does very well—If Sergeant Locke was appointed Issuing Cammissary, or the Military Stores putt into his care, with some fix'd salary, I might probably keep him, although his Time expires the last of this month. Doctor Lind is attentive, and if he had medicines and other necessarys. I would be satisfied with his abilities, though he made a better Qr. Master than Surgeon— Yours of the 23d 9'bre I received by the Sergeant who carried my Dispatch to the Governor and yourself— I lament with you, the want of Decision. and Delay in the manage- ment of our public affairs.—is a new Governor appointed, and do I know
Page 638
638 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. him? I shall for the future trouble you with some of my Letters, and Decem'r 3d thank you for conveying them—The polite Tender of your services are truly acceptable. especially in my distressed Situation—least I should exceed moderation, was I to make a return of our Wants that might frighten Government; Those incloS'd w:.ll inform you of what we have and my prospects, and you from thence, is a competent Judge of my wants; you are the only Dependence I have for a supply— The Situation of our Sick really demands your Attention. I hope Mr. Ross has been successfull in his purchases—Yours of the 24th came to hand on the 30th—The Traitor is safe yet d n him. all the men received in Camp when I commanded the Detachment, are enrolled at the Post, and in Capt: Scott's Return; of those received by Colo. CJas- kins, I have Ordered a Report, which when finish'd, shall be sent to you. they are not above six or eight, cheifly from Richmond & King and Queen. Poulson's Discharges arc really originals. to gett rid of him, (for he shall not go in the Detachment, if possible) I have shown him your paragraph, and to convince him it was not private Pique in you (as he shrewdly suspects) I show'd him also, one of his Productions, which had no less than 11 Blunders in 4 or 5 Lines-^I don't recollect of have- ing sent nor even recommended more than one Discharg'd soldier to call on you, for his Deficiency of Pay and Cloathing. I grant their sup- plies are Continental, and ought with propriety to come from the Con- tincntal Paymaster. But you'll permit me to observe, that Congress has resolved and recommended (which is all they can do) that each State should provide for cloaths, and pay their own Troops. charging such supplies to the Continent. On this principle, you would have another handfull. Butt knowing both to be full allready I shall trouble you on that head as little as possible— I am told Captain Lamme had his Excellency's Orders for discharging the old 18. M. M: if he had not, he ought to be call'd to a severe account. The arrangement I receiv'd at this place, is so imperfect, in many Respects, that it is a hard matter to aseertain the claims of Officers; whereever I can, I will. there is no arrangement of the Cavalry kept here, and Lt: Southall's Claims cannot now be ascertain'd—Capt: Nel- son has join'd me at this post, and taken command of a Company—I shall be obliged to relieve some of the Officers now allotted to Rendez- vous and recruiting service. As soon as I have done it, I shall send you a Report. I have this moment received a letter from Mr. Robertson C. I., and am sending a waggon to Williamsburgh for some supplies. When it returns, the Serg't who conducts it has, orders to wait on you, Should you be able to send us anything—I had allmost forgott. You will enquire where is the military and Qr. Mr. Stores of the Detach- ment—
Page 639
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 639 Return H. I—will show you the number of each Articles. I must 1781. beg leave to make this observation, that in a few Days the Tents will be Decem'r 3d struck and examined—But from a view of them standing not more than 20 at most are fit for entering the Field with—it is late, and Colo. Mathews setts off early in the morning—I refer you to him for what particulars he is acquainted. I hope our Business with the Assembly goes on clever. I'll endeavor. to be down at the critical moment—Mrs. Febiger sincerely thanks you for your many polite Compliments and returns hers most respectfully in Lieu—She wishes much and desires me (you) to come up on Christmas morning to sitt on a 3 legg'd Stool, and take Pott Luck with her at two, off a pine Table and Camp Dishes, all in the highest Gout do Guerre— You shall be pestered with another Scrawl Soon, untill then beleive with unfeign'd Regard D'r Colonel yours affectionately. P. S. Mathews can tell you to a little, how we live without money or means— F." Richd: Adams, Justice of the Peace, certifies that ho has on this day Decem'r 3d administered the "Oaths of Fidelity" and the Oaths of certain Officers Henrico Co. of Government" to the Hon'ble Sampson Mtithows Esquire, as member of the Privy Council of State. Special commission of Oyer an.d Torminer, issued by the Executive, Decem'r 4th to Paul Carrington, Peter Lyon and William Flemings Esquires, author- izing them to meet in the Town of Richmond on the llth December, "to hear and determine all Criminal measures which the General Court could have heard and determined" &c. J. MADISON JNR., ED: RANDOLPH AND Jos: JONES TO THE GOVERNOR OF Decem'r 4th VA., complaining of the failure of Mr. Ross to supply the means necessary to their support— Their experience with him served only to show his want of inclina- Complaint of tion or his inability to rescue them from the difficulties of their position. p. v'i-gin.ia The bills of credit drawn there at sixty days had to be discounted at Congress 10 to 20 pr: cent, and was a "traffic as disagreeable to them as it was dishonorable and injurious to their constituents."
Page 640
640 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. W. ARMSTEAD TO Gov: HARRISON in Council. Decem'r 6th "Sir, Richmond I have for some years acted as Commissary of Stores for this State, in consequence of which I have a claim against the publick which to me is considerable; the time is at length arrived when our paper cur- rency will not purchase a single necessary of life & I am sufficiently acquainted with the public funds not even to ask for the Tobacco at present w'ch is due me—Specie only then seems the next article, which will provide either food to eat or raiment to put on. Without either of these means of subsistence I have a family (though small) to maintain in this Extravagant Town. which have a right from my labours to expect support; thus situated I have taken the liberty of requesting your Excellency & your Hon'ble Council that I may be furnished by the Quarter Master with Wood & Forage, & the Commissary with as much provision as my family may need & the public occasion can conveniently spare; of which Articles an exact ace: shall be kept, & may be dis- counted from my wages; I should not have troubled your Excellency with this proposal, but from the inconveniences already experienced, in providing domestick necessaries & the still greater which appear from the present annihilated state of the paper money; I consider too that the Departments from which I wish to draw, have very small calls from the Army, compared with what has been usual; As Quarter Masters & Commissarys are, I believe already suppli'd in this way, except that with them it may be a perquisite, your Excellency need apprehend no similar application in consequence of this precedent— I am with the most respectful deference, Yr: Excellency's Obed: Scrvt. Decem'r 6th Ro: Boush reports to Col: Davies, that out of the twenty eight men Richmond he has as Jail Guard, several are under arrest for "letting two prisoners go," and onc too naked to do duty—The twenty four remaining not suf- ficient to do the guard duty day and night, at the Jail and Court House, unless he reduces them to two reliefs only— Decem'r 6th GEO: NICHOLAS TO Gov: HARRISON. Richmond In accordance with his directions he has considered the last "Act of Assembly giving certain powers &c," and thinks the Executive cannot issue more than one Commission of Oyer & Terminer, so that the power ends with the issuing of the one at Staunton. In this view, the offend- ers now referred to, can only be remanded to their respective Counties to be examined—The Governor's warrant however, is sufficient to detain them in custody until such examination—
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 641
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 641 Rich'd Worsham informs Col: Davies, that ho has had no success in 1781. recruiting, the bounty being too small. He has been to every public Decem'r 6th meeting, but without avail. Asks if there be any possibility of procur- Charlotte Co ing any clothing, as he is seriously suffering for want of it, not having received any cloth at Charleston on public account, altho' he learns offi- cers on parole got cloth at York Town. PHILIP MOODY TO ARCH: BLAIR, accounting for the -'Public negroes,— Dcei-m'r 7th of whom bought <fcc— Ague and her children, Ctesar, Jupiter and Joe bought of Harmer's Williumsb'g Estate—Ague ran off to one Blunt in Hanover, when the Enemy came to Richmond—Ctvsar and Jupiter went to the Point of Fork,—Joe ran away to the mountains—Peter, James and Galey, were bought of Bris- tols Estate in Gloster—Peter went to the Point of Fork,—James and Galey went away with Arnold—Galey since returned, and says James died of small pox at Portsmouth— EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM COL: TIM: PICKERING, Q. M. GENERAL Decem'r 7th &C—TO . "Inclosed is an extract* of some instructions from the Commander in Philadelphia chief relative to the forage taken, and damages done by the combined army in your State, about which, I unfortunately missed the opportunity when at Williamsburg, of conferring with Genl: Beville, Quarter Master General to the French Army— I doubt much if Gov: Nelson has yet taken any measures for ascer- taining the facts as he was sick about that time, and remained so when I left Virginia. It is best they should be ascertained as speedily as pos- sible, that no doubt may arise about the damages done, and forage taken before and since the two armies separated; and I request you to apply immediately to Gov: Nelson for the purpose—You will please to embrace the first opportunity of conferring with Genl: Beville on the mode by which the proportion shall be estimated and the manner in which pay- ment shall be made. To assist you in the first so far as respects forage, I will as soon as possible transmit you what information I can obtain. As to the latter, the most equitable way will be for the United States to undertake to pay for the whole forage and damages, in this way viz— When they are ascertained, and Genl: Beville and you have agreed on the proportions chargeable to the two armies, I should propose to him paying to you the amount of his quota, which you should distribute entirely amongst the sufferers in proportion to the damages they sus- *Not found. 81
Page 642
642 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. tained. It is possible Genl: Beville may ehuse, to prevent any complaint Dccem'r 7th against the French Troops, to pay oft' compleatly the proportion of dam- ages donc by them, but besides that, it will be difficult, I Ihink impossi- ble to distinguish in most instances what damages were done by the french and what by the american army—Such entire payment to some, while others remained without any compensation in cash, would pro- duce very great uneasiness. I wish therefore seriously that the equita- ble mode I have above suggested may be adopted. The time to be com- prehended in this adjustment will be from the arrival of the Marquis St. Simon's army, to the departure of the American Troops from York Town, about the 7th of November last—that you will fix with Genl. Beville." Decem'r 7th JtJO: ROBERTSON, SUP: CoM*Y ISSUES, TO CoL: DAVIES. York Town Multiplicity of business has detained him so long at York—A report of the amount of supplies at that place, Wmsburg and Gloucester had been forwarded to him on the 30th ult: with letters &c. He now reports only one week's supply of fresh provisions on hand at Wmsburg—there are no beeves at Gloucester, and three hundred prisoners in the Hospital to provide for. He has applied both to the County Commissioner and Mr. Pierce, but has received no relief—has borrowed a few days supply of beef for the sick at Gloucester—Salt and Flour very much wanted— Hopes to get away by the fifteenth of the month, and will spare no effort in discharging his duties. Dccem'r 7th MAJOR ROBT. FORSYTH, DEP: COM: PROV'S OF VA. TO COL: DAVIES. Richmond In conferring with the Executive respecting the British prisoners at Winchester, it was determined to sell Flour in the lower Country, in Order to lay provisions above—According to the report of an officer who had just left that place, they had been without bread for three or four days, and the prospect for a supply very bad, depending upon the exer- tions of the County Commissioners in that County, who seem by no means willing to give their assistance in this matter—It was Mr. Pierce's duty to have made provision for them, but as the State has of late thought proper -'to abolish the greater part of their staff appointments" he doubtless conceives himself no longer in office—Under the circum- stances ho has consented to sell Mr. Banks five hundred barrels,—and as soon as he receives sufficient money, shall undertake to supply relief for the -'three or four thousand Beef eaters"—Salt is very much needed at Winchester to cure the beeves ready to be slaughtered there. The situation of the Continental Troops in this State is very trying. and unless the Commissioners can support them from the adjacent Counties they must suffer seriously. He has no other means of supporting them,
Page 643
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 643 and begs the Commissioners in the neighborhood of Charlottesville, 1781. Cumberland Co. House and Fredericksburg be urged to efforts in their Decem'r 7th behalf—Calls attention to the necessity of guarding against accumulating too largo a quantity of salted beef, as it will not answer for the summer months—such as has been received is bad, and already there is so much in Richmond that he shall try and barter it for Spirits, Soap, and Can- dles for the Southern Army. The excess of fat cattle should be salted & be sold in exchange for Pork, a largo "magazine" of which is neces- sary, in as much as it will keep thro' the summer and will be wanted by the Southern Army. MAJOR RICH. CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES. Decem'r 8th Although Virginia has fully made up her quota of supplies to the Richmond "Continent," yet as some "specifies" still remain, he trusts the State will not object to the Continental agents making use of what may be now on hand—He Desires however to be informed at what price these articles are to be furnished—, a'nd asks for an Order on the Commis- sioncrs of Stafford and Spotsylvania Cos. to have their grain collected and carried to Falmouth as the post of Frederickb'g is suffering very much. ****** * * Col: Armand has made an application to him for curry combs, brushes, "1800 yards of forage rope," ten Tar buckets and one Barrel of Tar for his Legion—As he is not able to furnish these articles, asks for a draught on the State agent for them—Armand is also in want of Hospital stores, sugar, tea or coffee; has already lost some of his men, and can get no assistance. Some time since. Orders were sent to Mr. Rich: Young Ass: Dep. Q. Master at Fredericksburg, to send to the Southern Army, Axes, Camp Kettles and Horse-shoes, but for want of transportation he can do nothing; he therefore begs that some measure be adopted by the State to supply him with wagons under the arrangement of January last. as he is entirely dependent upon that plan, and shall fail if it be not car- ried out. * COLO. JOSEPH HOLMES, CONTINENTAL D. COM: G. OF PRISONERS, TO Gov. Decem'r 8th HARRISON. "Sir, I am just informed by very good authority that a number of British Richmond Pris'rs of War lately captured at York Town are now straggling about in several Counties within this State, but particularly in the County of "Glochester"—that the Lieutenant of that County has got a number himself at work, and permits others to employ them: this being a part of the Country they may easily facilitate their escape, and besides it
Page 644
644 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. being the positive Orders of his Excellency Genl: Washington, that all Decem'r 8th Pris'rs shuld be closely confined, and not permitted to straggle through the Country on any pretence whatsoever, I have thought it proper your Excellency shuld be informed of the same, and to request that some measures may be taken to have the Pris'rs collected & sent under proper Escorts to the Barracks ncar Winchester— I have the honor to be with the greatest Esteem Your Excellencies mo: obt: Hble Servt." Decem'r 8th JNO: SCOTT TO COL: DAVIES. "Sir, When you left tho Old Court House and the rest of the Officers, you ordered my flat to be turncd loose, and they were so imprudent to turn her a drift, with a chain 7 j feet long, by which means I lost the chain as well as the flatt. be so kind as to give me an order on the Offi- cer at tho Point Fork to give me a chain 7J feet long. with a ring at the end & a Huck and a staple, likewise 150 spikes 5 inches long which was drove in her bottom, by doing of which I am willing to loose the flat and make no charge, but the spikes & chain & hope you will think as I do, that I am very reasonable. Decem'r 8th COL: WM. DAVIES TO Gov: HARBISON. "Sir, War Office The importance of the Corps of Artificers, which with much diffi- culty has been established, I need not represent to your Excellency. They are however, so destitute of cloathing that they have suffered exceedingly. and have, several of them, I am told already deserted. If something is not done for their immediate relief, I fear we shall lose a greater part of them, and as the principal dependence for the cloathing and equipment of our Soldiers is upon them, the consequence will be, we Shall lose our Soldiers mid artificers too. What makes Their Situation still worse, is that at present, the State is wholly unable to pay them one farthing of money. I must therefore request the directions of your Excellency in Council, whether it will not be proper that the Commis- sary of Stores should supply these men with such necessary Articles of cloathing as he may have, charging them with the full value. to be deducted from their pay. and taking care not to exceed what may be due them—The men's distresses make them willing to be paid off in this manner." ***** I have the honor to be Sir, with the utmost respect, Yr: Excellency's mo: ob't Serv't."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 645
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 645 MAJOR ALEX: DICK OOMDO. TO CQL: DAVIES. 1781. Decem'r 8th It is impossible to comply with his requests made in his letters of the Portsmouth 23 and 25th ult., as there are "130 men in the Hospital" with small pox—Since their arrival at that Garrison has recruited forty five men and hopes soon to complete the Regiment. His orders as to the destina- tion of the men able to march shall be executed; he will remain with three companies of thirty five men each, and if supplied with clothing can fill them up in a couple of months." Col: John Cabell apologizes for not having sent in his Return of the Deoem'r 8th Militia, Mil: Stores & Cloathing of the County. He has "two Brass Buckingham Field Pieces with a Box of Ammunition &c, belonging to the Publick" left in his care. Col: Wm. Lyne informs Col: Davies, in reply, that there were one Decem'r 8th hundred and eighty nine British Prisoners lei't at Todd's Bridge by an King & Qu. "Officer Commanding the Marylanders," with no officer higher than a Sergeant—Some have since died, and many others "having the Flux" the Doctors think will die—They suffer for want of proper shelter and food—He has sent off all that were able to march under guard to Fred- ericksburg—Will be glad to know how he is to dispose of the remain- der, about eighty or ninety—Suggests they be sent on up to the Hos- pital fitted up at Hanover Town. RICH'D GRAHAM TO COL: DAVIES, in regard to the Specific Tax of that Decem'r 8th County. A great part of the Corn collected was "Sold out to the French Dumfries Troops for Cash at 10 S. hard money pr: Bush'l by a Mr. Con, a Dep: Q. Master from Alexandria." Saml: Jones, A. Q. M. informs Col: Davies he has "eleven Boats at Decem'r 10th Westham unman'd; there are twelve canoes under direction of Mr. Nat h: Richmond Anderson properly cquip'd"—However upon an emergency he can have Canoes enough to remove all the Arms he mentions.
Page 646
646 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Lieut: Col: J. Taylor sends memorandum of Field Officers of the Decem'r 10th Legions to Col: Davies,—They should all date, "on the 21st day of March 1781"—His own is ''Lieut: Col: Comdg. 1st Legion." Wm. Lindsay & Rob't Forsyth as Majors in the same Legion—28, blank com- missions will be necessary for the Captains and subalterns. Deeem'r10th Major Ricti'd Cluiborne informs (Jov: Harrison. that "the Continent Richmond has no Boats or Canoes above the Falls of James River, those made last summer, having been sent below to the Army, and after the surrender of the Garrison at York, were delivered over to the French, by Order of Genl: Washington. Deoem'rlOth COLO. CHRIS: SENF TO TOE GOVERNOR, requesting an Order on Mr. Ross for clothing. as was allowed <:to every Regular Officer who had served during the Seige at York." Richmond Owing to sickness he had left the Army "two days after the sur- render" and was not present to receive clothing with the others—The clothing sent to the Southern Army will be divided before he shall arrive there; consequently he is obliged to appeal to his Excellency for this Order on Mr. Ross. Decem'rllth GENL: DANL: MORGAN TO Gov: HARRISON. "Sir, Winchester I take the liberty of troubling you with an account of the Pris-' oners lately sent to this County, the particular direction of whom, was assign'd to Col: Smith, the County Lieutenant, but he being absent at the Time. and my Health nearly re-established, added to the very dis- ordered situation of the Prisoncrs, occasioned me to take the charge upon myself. The inattention of the Guards which have been composed of Militia, and the want of Provisions, which has been so sparingly fur- nished that they are near Twenty Days behind Hand in their Rations, and which has occasioned innumerable complaints from their Officers, have scatter'd the Prisoners over the whole Country, and induced them to try every method to eft'ect their Escape—Many have been seen cross- ing the Potomack in hunting shirts, and other Dresses to conceal their being British Soldiers, and numbers taken up in Carlisle in Pennsylvania, the Inhabitants in general rather conniving at their Escape, thro' a desire of getting them as babourers, than attempting to apprehend them. The situation of the Barracks adds also to the Impracticability of keeping them together, being fix'd in the only Tory Settlement in the County, from whence extends a chain of disaffected along the Frontier
Page 647
CALEJSTDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 647 of Maryland & Pennsylvania which facilitates their Escapes. besides 1781. this, it occasions immense Fatigue and Expence in the Hawling Provis- Decem'rllth ions, which might in a great measure have been avoided had the situa- tion been more central to the well cultivated part of the Country: Unless some more salutary measures are shortly adopted I feur the great success of our Arms will be attended with but little advantage. I have issued strict orders that all the Prisoners in the adjacent Counties, be immediately brought in. those that are straggling to be apprehended, and those who are at work to be delivered up by their employers; but I fear these directions will have but little Influence unless seconded by the Legislature, and enforced with severe penalties. I would also beg leave to inform your Excellency that this County is particularly agreived, owing to its being a continued thoroughfare here- tofore for both our Prisoners and Troops: and the adjacent counties neglecting to furnish their Proportion of Provisions, seizure is made in this (it being more convenient) for their immediate support, which unless altered shortly must turn to the entire Ruin of the Inhabitants: In short. I am well convinced that the Troops cannot subsist much longer under the present Establishment: but having wrote to his Excellency Genl. Washington, will act for the best, untill I receive his and your Instructions. I have the honor to be, Sir— your Excellency's most ob: humb: Ser't." COLO: ARMAND (MARQUIS DE LA ROUERIE) TO THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA. Decem'rllth •'Sir, Whatsoever little I have the honour of being personally acquainted charlottes- with your excellency, I have from your Justice & known merits the • e greatest confidence in addressing to you on this occasion. Some days after the Surrendering of York I was ordered at this post by the Com'der in Chief on purpose to recruit, compleat & clothe the legion & remain here untill those purposes answered. less I should have interfered with the laws of this State I made an application to Governor Nelson on the following heads— 1st for an approbation of the Majistrature for my recruiting in this state agreeable to the instructions & orders from Congress & the Com- mander in Chief. 2nd for the approbation of the same for recovering all horses that became public property under the capitulation of the 19th agreeable to Genl: Washington's orders—whose horses I have accepted of, against the agreement Congress had made with me, when they send me to france, which was to furnish me with new horses, & that I have accepted of in compliance with the wishes of the Comdr. in Chief & to
Page 648
648 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. the purpose to render my legion as little a coste to the public as pos- Decom'rllth aible—but I have still a great proportion to receive—I know that many of the inhabitants in this state have taken horses at York after the sur- rendering of the place & if not soon recovered, Congress will be obliged to purchass a larger number of horses at considerable expences. 1 take the liberty to enclose a copy of the Orders of the Comm'der in Chief on that head. the third application was for an order to impress wagons, & since at this post 1 have experienced how necessary such an order would have been to general purposes, and more particularly to establish a maga- zine of forage, which being plainty in this county could be gathered soon by a quantity of wagons, & is necessary to supply the legion, when the badness of the weather & the roads will not permit the carriage of it, what happens often in this Country—the Commissioner John Key resigned many Days ago & decline acting untill another is appointed— this has put me under embarrassment, as I was not willing to take the unregular steps of impressing without proper vouchers. I have desired the inhabitants of this county to leat me have a few portions of their forage untill another commissioner should be appointed, or a more reg- ular plan established by the majistrature for the supply of forage. Should your Excellency think proper to desire of the inhabitants that the taxes in grain which are to be payed in some mouths should be delivered at this post for the use of the legion & in the mean. time give leave to the person trusted with that care to barter part of the grain for hay & oats, it seems that it would answer all purposes on that head— I received few days ago by an Express, letters from the board of war which tels mo that my cloathing &c went by waiter from Philadelphia the 25th Nov'ber last & are ordered to frederiesburg, whore I suppose they arc arrived by this time. the officers with which I have left the care of those stores has the necessary orders from the board of war, but I am effrayed that unless he has a press warrant from your excellency he will not be able to procure at frederiesburg a sufficient number of waggons to bring the stores to this post, which would delay much my forces in forming the legion & of course keap us inactive. Mr. Andrews, secretary to the late governor & council is well apprised of my case, by a conversation 1 had with him & several letters I wrote him fron? here on the subject. I beg leave to desire him to mention it more at large to your excellency than 1 can by way of a letter. I cannot allow me to quit the legion one half day—fearing that in our present distressed situation some disorder would take place—Ihis hinder me of going & pay you my self the respect with which I have the honour to be, your excellency, the most ob't h'ble serv't."
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 649
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 649 ".Extract of Recruiting Instructions for Colo Armand." 1781. "Sir, Decem'rllth You are hereby authorized and fully impowcr'd to inlist in any or Either of the United States a Sufficient number of able bodied men to compleat your Corps to its full establishment, within the description and upon the Conditions hereafter pointed out, you are to inlist none but free men between the age of sixteen and forty, free from Lameness and every other bodily infirmity &c. you are to inlist them to serve for the full term of three years or during the war et ca.— You shall inlist no deserters from the british army or navy or prison- ers of war. you shall inlist no Soldiers or Seamen in the Service of our Allies, or in the land or Sea Service of any particular State unless you shall obtain permission from the Commander in Chief in particular instances on that purpose. the rest of the instructions prescribe the method of Examining, Swearing and Mustering the recruits. Given at the War Office, this first day of October 1781. Signed by EZEK: CORNELL." "Copy of a lettrefrom the Commander in Chief." "Sir, you are hereby authorized to pursue the most advisable method for recovering all horses that become public property by the Capitula- tion of the 19th, and that may be found in the American Army or Else- where. Given at Head Quarters this 26th of October 1781. (Signed) G. WASHINGTON." to Coll: Armand. COLO. ARMAND TO COL: WM. DAVIES—in reply, thanking him for a sup- Decem'rllth ply of shoes, and his promise for releif to the sick of his legion. Ho has just received an order from the board of war at Philadelphia Charlottes- on Mr. Marcks the Com: of hides at that post for a number of pairs of shoes, which with those rec'd from Col: Davies will supply his wants— Misrepresentations must have been made to him in regard to the Coun- try near the post—it can furnish an abundance of forage, and provis- ions also, and the garrison can be regularly supplied if proper men are employed in collecting these articles. His apprehensions that his Corps would not be supplied thro' the Continental Officers have been realized. Mr. Rice has done nothing, and those under him do no better. He how- ever did expect aid from the state, but Capt: Peyton has failed to meet his requirements, tho' his excuse for not doing so is entirely satisfactory. 82
Page 650
650 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. The resignation of Mr. Key the Tax Commissioner had caused him great Decem'rllth trouble in as much as he was thereby deprived of the means of supply- ing his corps, and to attempt to impress from the people upon his own authority is as disagreable to him as to themselves: and he should ncver consider such a step justifiable except under "absolute necessity", and when all other means had failed. He had however applied with success to the people to furnish forage &c until a new Commissioner is appointed. Continues "The first who offered himself is doctor George Gilmer, who has set his name on the list for two ton hay—I can not help expressing here the great opinion I have of the character of that gentleman. I & my family, which is pretty large, are quartered at his house, it being impossible to have loging enough to divide much the officers—doctor Gilmer had subject to complain of, in the involuntary trouble we gave him, but far from it he has behaved himself with a goodness of humor & attention which he did not confine to my self, but extended to all indi- viduals of the legion. he visits my sicks, he furnish them with their wants as often as in his power & put me reither at a loss how to show him my gratitude. According to my promise we have not interfered in the least with the men at the barracks. you may remember that all you desired was that non of our troops should be quartered there & indeed nothing has been done oh our part that I know of, that could hinder their works or trouble their persons. besides this it is no more in my power to move from here, my men were employed till now in building stables & making conveniencies for themselves & it would be difficult to persuade them to do the same works again. were they even willing they would not be able to do it in the course of onc month for. the coldness & badncss of the weather & during that while my horses remaining uncovered would reither perish than mend themselves—I have given an account of my Situation to the Com- mander in Chief & the board of war, & my changing quarters under the present circumstances would destroy in the greatest part the measures allready taken for the forming of the legion, would extend the time of its inactivity & be an improper step for which I could not be account- able." ****** "I take the liberty to enclose here a letter to Mr. pierce Commissary Genl: desiring he would order that the grain taxes in this neighborhood could be applied to the use of the legion, which would remove all diffi- culty in that line of our wants." Decem'rllth W. Armstead agrees to supply Capt: Anderson's Artificers with the Richmond clothing called for, and upon the terms suggested by him.
Page 651
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 651 CAPT: ROBT. TODD, CLARK'S REOT., TO Gov: OF VIRGINIA. 1781. Deeem'rllth "May it please your Excellency, Richmond As my being an officer in Clark's Regt. & paymaster of late, it becomes a part of my duty to represent the wretched situation of the few troops remaining westward. Many of them have been in the service for two years past & have ncver received a shoe, stockings or hat, & none of them any pay. What other clothing not here mentioned, rec'd at Fort Jefferson: are now worn out—Their being in this condition may perhaps be in some measure owing to bad economy in the application of the publick clothing, which I think would not be improper to enquire into— Whatever dispositions your Excellency shou'd please to make, whether kept where they are or removed, clothing will be absolutely necessary. without it no great service can be expected from them." * * * I. am Sir, with much respect, your Excellency's most obt. & Humble Serv't." CAPT: JOHN PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Decem'rllth "Dear Sir, The doubtful and very uncertain situation of matters at Kichmond present intimidates me from entering with spirit into the department which you have done me the honor to tender me, as there was a motion just now made in the House, and carried by a great majority, to discon- tinue the whole of the military arrangements of this State, except in very small proportion, and that the Executive was only to be empower'd to appoint a Quarter Master & Commissary, for their accommodation, & the whole of the stores to be transfer'd to the Continental Staff. Should the result of the Committee be in favor of this motion, I trust there will be no occasion for a State Com: Mil: Stores, and therefore could wish to decline incumbering myself with supplies which I may have no occa- sion for, and in which there will be considerable risque." * * * * * "I shall meet with difficulty in ascer- taining what mil: stores the state has furnish'd for the Feild Operations, previous to my acting as F. C. G. M. Stores, as Capt: Bohannan, who was Com: G. M. S. and director of the State Laboratory has not any of those accounts." ***** I have the honor to be, with every sentiment of Respect Dr. Sir, your mo: Ob. Serv't."
Page 652
652 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. ROBT. MORRIS TO DAVID Ross, COM'R OF TRADE FOR VIRG'A. Decem'rllth "Sir, Office of Fi- His Excellency the Commander in Cheif has laid before me, your Philadelphia Letter on the Subject of Goods purchased from the Traders at York Town, after the Capitulation, together with Bills he had drawn on me in your Favor, for the sums of seven thousand, four hundred and fifty two Pounds, twelve shillings and an half pence, Sterling: and six thou- sand and thirty five Pounds, seventeen shillings and two pence half penny Sterling: as also a State or estimate of the amount of those Goods. Which with six months Interest, at five per cent is the amount of these Bills: viz thirteen thousand, four hundred and eighty eight Pounds, nine shillings and three pence. By this Estimate also, it appears that you have in your Hands certain Bonds, to the amount of the first Bill, which Bonds were as I understand, given for the Sales of Goods belonging to the United States. Upon recurring to the original agreement with the British Traders 1 find that Tobacco is receivable by them'in Payment, which will be much more convenient to the United States, than the advance of so much money. I therefore assume for the United States, the perform- ance of that agreement, which renders the acceptance of the Bills unne- cessary, and in consequence I shall give Directions what is to be done with the Bonds deposited in your Hands, when I know the exact pur- port of them; for which reason, I am to request that you will send me Copies as soon as may be convenient. with great respect, I have the honor to be Sir, (Copy) your most obedient and humble servant." Decem'rlSth CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO COL: WM. DA VIES. "Dear Sir, Albemarle Inclosed is a letter to the Speaker of the House of Delegates arrac 3 suhject of my pav yOU will be kind enough jo read it & correct such parts as you may think necessary & as the substance of it may want more force to put it into execution, than I am master off." * * "I thank you for your letter to Genl: Green mentioning the reason of my continuing in the State, as also foryrs: to Colo. Moyland Clothier Genl:, which I am in hopes will be a means of having the depart'nt under proper regulations in future. I shall endeavor to prevail on Capt: Scott or some other capable Officer, to accept of the issuing of the Clothing to the S. Army. I am sorry Mr. Ross has not had it in his power to supply me with sewing thr'd, as I find great difficulty in pro- curing it, in this neighbourhood, even by exchanging any thing I have for it —
Page 653
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 653 I have delivered to Colo. Armand, agreeable to your order, 200 pair 1781. of shoes—his Soldiers boots I suppose must be repaired at this place, Decem'rl2th but I much dislike takeing the shoemakers from their business for it— The Artificers whose times expires the 1st Jan'y I am afraid cannot be prevailed to stay any longer for paper money, as it appears to be entirely lost in their parts at present. I wish there could be fallen on, some way to keep them, as I think them usefull men. One or two months pay in hard money, I think would be a sufficient inducement, as that seems to be all their objections, since Colo. Armand's Legion has Received their pay in it." * * * * * * "I am D'r Colo. with sincere regard Yr: Ob't Serv't." B. LINCOLN TO THE Co. LIEUT: OF FREDERICK, VA. Deoem'rl2th "Sir, Lieut: Col: North is empowered to remove the prisoners from Win- War Office Chester to Frederick Town; to effect this business with safety and dis- patch, he will need your assistance in men to escort the prisoners, and Teams to transport the Baggage. I hope Sir, it will not be found a very difficult matter to execute this business. The idea of being freed from the trouble of guarding them, will I think induce the militia to turn out with spirit. I must solicit your assistance to supply Teams and guards to Frederick Town at least. If it should happen that all the Germans cannot be covered' at Frederick Town, and that a part of them must be left at Winchester, which I hope, and am confident will not be the case, I must beg your attention to them until they can be provided for elsewhere— I am Sir, yr: most obed. Servant." DUDLEY DIGGES TO Gov: HARRISON. Decem'rl2th "Sir, I had the honor yesterday, of receiving your Excellency's Letter King's Mill of the 6th instant—Altho' I had hopes of remaining at this, my tem- porary Asylum for a while unknown and forgotten by the public, yet since the Governor & Council are pleased to fancy that I can render any service to the State, to the french Officers or to Individuals, I am con- tent to endeavor to comply with their wishes in the best manner my abilities will enable me. I am aware that many and great difficulties will occur whenever I shall enter upon the business mentioned in your letter: perhaps they may not be insuperable: Confusion certainly, and perplexities will arise from the time the combined army entered this State until the 15th of
Page 654
654 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. October; but after that Period, I am informed by Count Rochambeau, Decem'rl2th all will be clear & plain with respect to the proportions chargeable to the Continent, the french Army or to this State; but what happened previous to that period, will furnish difficulties enough—possibly there may be no other way of doing Justice respecting the demands of Indi- viduals, but by having regard to the number of troops, horses &c, belonging to the Continent, the State, and to the french army, and then equitably to subject those Corps respectively to be chargeable with their proper proportions—I have not yet had an opportunity of seeing Count Viomenil—I shall wait upon him, however in a few days, and shall afterwards communicate to the Executive any thing material that may occur. Count Rochambeau seem'd the other day to be unhappy at not receiv- ing any letter from you Sir, in answer to one of his, written upon the subject of establishing one or more post riders some where in the County of Caroline & about Fredericksburg, for the purpose of bringing any letters that may come from Philadelphia for him: the Count complains that he has not received a single letter from Genl: Washington since his departure from this state, altho' more than one Month has elapsed, and notwithstanding he is certain that several have been certainly written to him by Genl: Washington—With much respect & esteem, I have the honor to be, Sir, your most humble and most obed't servant." Decem'rl2th CoL: CHRIST: FEBIGER TO COLO. WM. DAVIES. "Dr. Colonel, ****** Cumberland "I have not yett been able to get a Return from the Eastern Shore: Old C. H. as jjajor Poulson's Presence can easily be dispensed with, 1 have order'd him thence to get rid of his constant Importunitys. he will probably show you his Instructions. I think his Ortography will be put to the Triai.» ****** "Lt: Storkeley is taken very unwell. the moment he is able to ride, I shall immediately dispatch him for the clothing mentioned in your last. I am making a push for the British Arms and shall get them. I am extremely sorry that cloathing is so very hard to procure. I wish and must insist on Capt: Peyton and his whole Tribe to be removed to this place. with the assistance of his Tools, and the workmen we have here, a great Deal might be done and Business much fowarded. I am really fearfull that what little eloathing the men now gett will be wore out before they gett any more." * * * * "Pray endeavor to procure every supply in your power. it's impossible for the men to exist this severe weather, without Breeches and Stockings or woollen overalls. Posey tells me there is a large quantity of Russia
Page 655
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 655 Sheeting or Ravens Duck in the public stores. Could these be made 1781. into long Gaiters such as the trench and german Troops have, these Decem'r 12th with Socks would do extremely well,—at any rate a pair of woollen Stockings per man is at present absolutely wanted. Pray how comes on our Busincss with the Legislature. Mrs. Febigor joins in our best respects to you, and I am with Sincere Esteem Dr. Col: your mo: ob. h'ble Servant. Col: John Boswell informing Col: Davies of the British having burnt Dccem'rl2th five wagons on the 4th June last at his house, the iron of which ho has saved—Another wagon "broke down and left by Genl: Wayne" is still in his care. The little medicine saved was delivered "to the State Doc- tor" when the marquis with his Army was at his house on the 11th June last. W. BROWN, CAPT: IN COL: GIBSON'S REGT: TO COL: G. MUTTER. Decem'r 12th "D'r Sir, I need not acquaint you of the Revolutions that have taken place Petersburg in our Regiment—I may now go where I please, but where to go or what to do I am at a loss.—The pay &c that the Country gives us is not sufficient to live genteely on, and poor me, unfortunately have spent all I had in the Army, so that it's out of my power to commence Trade, which I was brought up to. to work I never did, and to go a begging I can never consent to. Then I suppose it may be thought that the Highway is the only alternative. but no, I hope you know me too well to think I would ever descend to that despicable way of life—It really greives me to think to what distressing situation myself as well as other Officers are brought to—for my own part I took up arms in defence of my Country as early as any in Virginia. five years I have been Hon- oured with a Commission, four of which I commanded a Company, raised two Quotas of men, Suffered three Winter's Campaigns, and now to be rewarded with no more pay and subsistence pr: Diem, than will scarcely pay for the washing one Shirt, 1 imagine will appear to you Distress- ing. The only remedy loft is Patience which nccessity obliges me to adopt—As I have experienced many marks of your Friendship, and as you are at the head of a Department* where it may be in your power, probably to procure or point out some general employment for mo. as I am willing to serve my Country, tho' I have been very ill used by it— Please to favor me with your Advice respecting this matter and oblige, your most Humble Serv't— * Col Matter had been removed from office before this date.
Page 656
656 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. P. S. I understand that the Frigate that Capt: N. Travers is to com- Decem'rl2th mand is Launched. as I have been a Marine Officer, I would be glad to be appointed Captain, if she is to carry Marines, that is, in case 1 should hold my Rank & Rise in the Regiment when It may be filled up." W. B. Dccem'rlSth CAPT: JOHN PEYTON TO THE SPEAKER OF THE H. OF DELEGATES. "Sir, Albemarle In Juno '79 I was appointed Clothier Genl: to the Continental )' i' '"'' Troops of the Va. Line. The appointment was given mo by a resolu- tion of the Hon'ble Assembly of this State, in consequence of a requisi- tion being made by the Hon'ble Contin'l Congress for such an appoint't. At the time of my appointment my sallary was fixed by the Assembly at fifteen hundred pounds pr: annum, a Sum at that time which was supposed to be adequate to the Trouble, but the Rapid depreciation in our Currency, which took place soon after the appointment, rendered my pay so very inconsiderable, that I never made a demand on the state for it, being conscious they would not wish me to be so considerable a looser as I realy must be without some part of my sallary can be real- ized, & what part of it the Hon'ble Assembly may think proper to make good, shall entirely leave to that body, for the Justice they may think me entituled to. I would only wish to make One Observation in the matter, which is, that my expenses during the time has been very considerable, being under the necessity of moving the stores frequently. I have only drawn from the State, for my own use Since I have acted in the department, 20.000 Dols.; which sum was drawn last March, & consequently soon expended in traveling. I am now & have been for some time entirely without money. If I cannot get a small supply shortly, shall be under the necessity of making Sale of some part of my own property to answer my necessary oxpences— I have the honor to be with great Respect, yr: mo: ob. Sov't—" Decem'ri3th COLO. ANTH: W. WHITE (CAVALRY), TO . "Dr. Sir, Salsberry This will be handed you by Capt: Watts of my Regt.—he is a perfect Gentleman & his merit and address as an Officer has been con- spicuous on all occasions. you will therefore pardon my asking your friendship & assistance for him. On Capt: Bilfield's promotion, he became the Eldest Capt: in my Regt. & by a Resolve of Congress that Promo- tion should be regimental to the Com'd of Reg'ts, I think he is entitled to the second majority—Before this Resolve took Place, either Capt:
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 657
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 657 Swan of the 3d Reg: or Capt: Hopkins of the 4th Rcg't had claims to 1781. one of the majoritys, but Congress have refused to grant them Commis- Decem'rlSth sions till the State of Virginia agree to accept of them as officers, they both belonging to other States, which refusal appears to proceed from their claims not answering to the intent & meaning of their late Resolve. It is therefore much in your power Sir to determine in Capt: Watts' favor, he being a Virginian Born & has not only been a faithful Servant to the State, from the commencement of the War, but has Bled & suf- fered for his Country which undoubtedly entitles him to this small reward, if it can be granted with propriety—After what I have said of this gentleman, it will be needless to assure you that his promotion will add greatly to the Benefit of my Rogt." * * * I have the honor to be with Esteem your much oblig'd & hbl. Sev't." CAPT: N. READ TO COL: DAVIES. Decem'rlSth Dr. Col, I am hear yet, and hear likely to be. however I dont grumble New London about that, but I think it rather tight on those folks who have no money Be<lford Co. nor Cloaths—" ***** * * * "I would be much obliged to you for your opinion in regard to a Virginia Officer that is, whether he had better continue in the Army untill he is broke forgoing on parade with- out a coat, or for him to retire while times is good." * * "Lieut: Rankin who was ordered to this place to recruit has not enlisted any body, nor I am shure will not, as the people would not turn round three times for ten thousand Dollars— I am D'r Colo. yours Affectionately." COL: Jo: HOLMES TO Gov: HARRISON. Decem'rlSth In accornance with his wishes, he presents a plan 1'or providing a Richmond guard for the British Prisoners at Winchester—The following Counties are "to furnish 427 men" viz—"Berkeley, Hampshire and Fauquier 64 men each, Fred'k & Shannandoah 60 men each, Rockingham 50 men, Loudon 75 men—each County to furnish for its men one Capt:, one Lieut: & onc Ensign"—Fifteen men to be mounted and equipped as cav- alry to patrol the Country and arrest straggling prisoners—The Conti- nental Quarter Master to furnish Tools for the use of the Prisoners to build their own Huts with, and that the militia be required to erect proper places of confinement for refractory prisoners and for those who may attempt to escape; that fifty iron chains and handeuff's be supplied by the United States "for purposes well known." Proper Arms to be 83
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 658
658 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. furnished the Deputy Con: of Mil: Stores at Winchester for the use of Decem'r 13th the guard, he to account for the same. The Commanding Officer to be furnished with "copies of the articles of war"—The Counties doing this duty to be credited with the same, in any future call for the militia. Culpeper Co. omitted because of the service done by her militia at Albemarle Barracks—The Commanding Officer to make out his Pay Rolls and foward them to Philadelphia. Decem'r 14th ROBT. FORSYTH, D. C. V. P., TO GOV: HARRISON. Richmond Twelve or fourteen days ago, it had been agreed that Flour should be sold in the lower country, in order to purchase supplies for the Prisoners at Winchester in that neighborhood: but no deposit of Flour has as yet been made for this purpose, nor does he see any prospect of its being done in time to relieve the wants of the Prisoners. One Thousand bar- rels will be needed at once for this purpose. The Salt demanded by Colo. Blaine is indispensably needed, and with- out delay: as the Beeves now on hand there, and those on the way must perish for want food, in as much as they cannot be slaughtered without the Salt necessary to curing the meat. Decem'r 14th FROM Ma. RicHD. YOUNG TO MAJOR CLAIBORNE. Frederic'sb'g "In regard to the three waggons left here by Mr. Reynolds Conductor of mil: stores, they are reduced to almost nothing. I could make but one team out of the three, and they all could scarcely move. The Teams I made were sent with the prisoners and guards to Winchester—On its return two horses were stolen on the way, three of the others since dead—I kept them as long as I could but from necessity and a late letter received from you, and the want of forage, I thought it most advisable to sell the remaining part. which I did not, till the 11th inst: & then at public sale, when they & upwards of 200 head of poor cattle were advertised and sold by order of Majr. Forsyth, as they were not fit for beef & we were not able to stall feed them. If I had not sold the horses, they must have all died, as I believe the Commissioners are deter- mined to let us have no more Forage, and no money or Credit to pur- chase. I shall account with you properly for the money. They were so indifferent that they only sold for about Thirty Pounds."
Page 659
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 659 COL: DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR, eemplaining of the Continental Agents 1781. conduct, in making drafts upon County Commissioncrs for the "specific Decem'rHth tax," in grain &c, and selling it to the French at ten shillings, specie pr: barrel. This is taking advantage of the indulgence of the State, and applying War Office these articles to an entirely different object from that originally intended: and it is particularly unjust when it is remembered that Virginia has already furnished much more than her quota of supplies. Turner Southall certifies, that he has "this day administered the Oaths Docem'rHth directed by Law to be taken by a Privy Councillor to Beverly Ran- Henrico Co. dolph Esqr." Robt. Boyd, Robt. Rawlings and Wm. White, having been appointed Dccem'rlSth by the Gencral Court to examine into the condition of the Public Jail, Richmond report, "that they find two small rooms ten feet square, without a fire place, with a small paled in yard & suppose it very insufficient for the number of Prisoners contained therein." They find "no conveniences for the use of the prisoners & observe that the Goaler has kept it much cleaner" than was expected—But with all this, it is "unwholesome and inconvenient." THOS: LOMAX TO Gov: HARRISON. Decem'risth "Sir, When I arrived in this part of the Country, I was credibly informed Col. Pendle- by a number of Gent'n, that there are between 50 & 100 of the British ., t?.n>s'r' * Caroline Co. Prisoners in this County, who have hired themselves into different Fam- ilies, and have not a Doubt, but it is the case in other Counties through which they marched." * * * * "I am afraid it will not be in my Power to attend the Council 'til the last of January, however if it should be necessary for me to be there sooner & you will be obliging enough to acquaint me with it, I will endeavour to be over—I am with Respect yor: Excellency's most obt. h'ble Serv." Endorsed, in autograph. "In Council." "Col: Davies is desired to give orders to the Commanding Officer of Caroline to collect tho Prisoners in his County and either to deliver them to the Officers marching from Hanover, or send them foward himself to Fredericksburg. BENJ. HARRISON.
Page 660
660 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. CAPT: HENRY YOUNG TO Gov: HARRISON. Decem'rl7th Sir, Richmond Agreeable to your Excellency's directions, I now beg leave to lay before you an explicite and impartial state of the Quarter Master's Department, which is at this time under my direction—A total stop to the circulation of the paper currency. which has taken place on a suppo- sition of its being immediately called in, and the uncertainty of the cer- tificates which are to be issued in lieu of it, being better received by the people, induces those who have materials to dispose of, to withhold them from such public Agents as have not specie, or specificks to give them in return. The public Artificers and waggoners will leave us, nor can I devise any means to retain them. indeed it would be highly unjust to force them to a compliance with their engagements, as we have nothing permancnt to give them in return for their services, and many of them have large families to provide for, and no otBer dependence but their pay: I beg leave therefore to observe to your Excellency that there will be an absolute necessity of drawing as many of the six months' men from Colo. Dabney's Regiment, as will be sufficient to supply the places of the waggoners and Artificers, those men being furnished with cloth- ing, will be pleased with receiving a small monthly allowance, in addi- tion to the pay promised them as soldiers, and be content with the prospect of that promise being complied with at a future day. For want of plank and other materials, the Artificers that remain are entirely idle, nor can I procure those materials without official orders, with per- mission to grant such certificates for payment, as will enable the sellers to receive the value of their Commodities hereafter. Could I receive specie for the stores furnished the Continental Quarter Masters, it would assist me greatly in carrying on the business of the department. instead of this, I have, in a great measure, been obliged to lay aside the business of the State, to comply with the orders received in favor of the Continent, and the only prospect that appears, of the State being reim- bursed, is either in Certificates, that have already depreciated greatly, or that which is still worse,—the Accts. after being liquidated may be arranged in the mass of Continental papers, and perhaps will not be placed to the credit of the State for many years to come, if ever— The accounts of the Department, I expect will be in readiness by the first of next month, at which time I wish them to be finally settled; and if the department is to be entirely abolished, or myself superceded, that proper persons may be directed to take charge of the stores on the com- mencement of the ensuing year. As nothing has been finally determined with respect to the mode in which the wages of the Officers of the depart- ment shall be paid, I respectfully request Your Excellency's interposition in having it done as early as possible, many of them being in a manner destitute of necessaries which their pay might have procured them, had it been receivable as it became due, which their services have undoubt- edly merited—
Page 661
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 661 There are many debts now due from the department, which it is totally 1781. out of my power to discharge, as the Creditors refuse to take the paper Dpcern'rl7th money in discharge of them. I am at a loss to determine on the mode that will be the most proper to be adopted for discharging them. The nature of the business of Express riders will readily suggest to your Excellency the necessity of their being furnished with specie, the publi- cans, for the most part. in the Country refusing to entertain travellers for paper money— I have a number of loose Horses at this place. the difficulty of pro- curing forage will perhaps induce your Excellency to coincide with me in the Opinion, that it will be proper to put them in Charge of a respect- able farmer in the Country where they may be kept with less expence to the public, especially as they are useless here: Application has already been made to me on that head,—I have written to the several County Commissioners of the Specific Tax, throughout the State, requiring a return of the forage collected and issued by them. A very few have complied with my requisition, and Sent in their returns; which renders it entirely out of my power to make a full return to the War Office, as I have been required, of the forage Collected and Issued by them— I wish your Excellency and the Honourable Council to suspend your opinions of my conduct 'till every circumstance that has regulated my proceedings, can be thoroughly investigated. There are a number of flat-bottom boats at Westham, belonging to the public. they are not suitable for the navigation below the falls, and they are useless above, as there is not any public purposes to which they can be applied. probably it may be more advantageous to the public to dispose of them—I shall be glad of your Excellency's directions on that head— Sometime past, thirteen saddles, the property of Captain Patrick Wright of this town, were by order of Governor Nelson, impressed for the service of the public. I advanced one hundred thousand Dollars in part, for the payment of them—Capt Wright now refuses to receive the balance in paper money, unless he can have the full depreciation—I am at a loss, how to determine it. perhaps the State Agent may have it in his power to discharge it in specie. should your Excellency think proper that it should be settled in that manner it will give me infinite pleasure to know your determination as eoon as possible, as Captain Wright is much distressed for want of the money. I am your Excellency's Obedient Servant."
Page 662
662 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JNO: PIERCE TO COL: WM. DAVIES, giving estimate of the quantity of Decem'rl7th provisions delivered this year "for Continental use.'' Richmond 8000 rations a day, he supposes a moderate allowance throughout the whole state—amounting to "13277 Beeves & as many barrels offiour"— and with what Indian meal used as a substitute for flour," he does not doubt "that more than the qty: has been delivered"—exclusive of these. there "has been Bacon, Pork, Mutton &c &c to a very considerable amount, also salt & Spirits" of which he can form no estimate. Decem'rlTth JNO: PIERCE TO HON: DAVID JAMESON. "Sir, Richmond The manner in which your hon'ble Board was pleased to appoint me Commissary Gen'l & Commissioner for the State, gave me reasons to hope I was considered worthy your confidence, consequently it becomes my duty to make you every acknowledgment in my power. you will therefore be pleased to accept my sincere thanks for the same, which you will also be pleased to communicate to the rest of the Hou'ble members at that time in office— 1 can with truth assure your honour, that no lucrative motives stimu- lated me to the acceptance of those offices, therefore did not consult you on the reward I might expect for my services, & don't doubt but you intended to make me such compensation as I might deserve. The deranged situation of affairs at the time I undertook this business ren- dered it almost impracticable to have it performed with that exactness as I would wish; however have Used my best endeavors to prevent abuses & shall feel great satisfaction, should I be so fortunate as to have my conduct approved of— The extensiveness of business rendered it necessary for me to employ many Assistants, who also depend on the Courtesy of government for their reward. I must therefore entreat your Honour to represent the matter to his Excellency the Governor & the rest of the Hon'ble mem- bers of your board, who will be pleased to determine what reward I shall have, also my assistants— The motives by which I was stimulated to undertake this business, was to prevent the Army from suffering, at a time there was the greatest probability of its being the case, unless the greatest exertions were made to prevent it—I never intended to continue longer than emer- gency should require my services, therefore would wish to decline the business as soon as possible: my Acc'ts may perhaps be required, before I can be discharged; my cash Acc't is ready at any time, but it will be impossible to have the provision Accounts ready, till the whole of the Commissioners have made their returns, which come in very slow; but expect many may be brought in this week.
Page 663
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 663 I Served as Assistant to Mr. Browne from the 25 December last to the 1781. 8th of September, for which I was allowed 75 lbs. Tob: pr: day, none of Decem'rl7th which I have received—The distresses I have experienced from the enemy and our own Army, leaves me so circumstanced that I have almost every necessary of life to purchase, for the support of a very large family, to support which I shall be obliged to dispose of part of the property I have led, unless I can be favoured with what is due me for public services—I hope therefore Government will favor mo with that assistance if possible, for which I shall ever consider myself under the greatest obligations. I have the honour to be— your Honour's most ob. Sevt." COLO. ARMAND TO Gov: HARRISON OF VA. Decem'rl7th "Sir, I have been honoured with your letters of the 6th & 14th bre and Charlottes- give you my sincere thanks for the assistance your Excellency has been pleased to give to the legion. in your former letter it appears that you considered my application to you for recovering the horses. which became public property by the determination of a council of general officers, to which I believe gov- ernour nelson was present, held at the time of the surrendering of the british army in york, as a personal regard from me & destitute of pro- priety—this mistake might have arose from the circumstance I am under of not being entirely known of your Excellency & therefore I am the more anxious to rectify the error. I had & have still explicit orders of the Commander in Chief to recover for the public & to be turn'd in the legion all such horses as here above mentioned, & when I wrote to you about it, it was rather a step to make my conduct as agreeable to the civil authority as it was in my power— Such orders were issued by the Commander in Chief, and all my reflec- tion on the subject could create in me no other idea & determination, but to obey them. I therefore cannot be accused of want of reflection when I made a request which shewed nothing else but my subordination to the government—& the letter of your excellency will be my justification, should Congress, when being obliged to purchase the number of horses wanted in the legion, disaprove of my conduct, as being the principle of those expenses, by not obeying their command in receiving those taken at York. it appears by your second letter that you are not entirely satisfied with the propriety of my proceeding in making application to the State of Virginia for the supply of the legion—at least you think that I have not exerted myself as much as in my power. in having that corps sup- plyed by the Continental qt. mrs. at this post. Should it become neces-
Page 664
664 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. sary to justify myself on that head I would take the liberty to refer Decem'rlTth your excellency to the several letters which I wrote on the subject to the deputy qr: mr. at richmond—to Col: Davies of the board ol war of this state. & to others which I expected could make some alteration in our situation.—in all those I complained much of the distressed state of the qt: master's department at this post. I foretold in them what , might be the consequences & even complained heavily of the persons employed in that department, who not being able to supply to their want of resources of money, by their own exertions and influence amongst the people, should be really more proffitable to the Country if not employed at all in its service, and it was after many trials that I saw & told we could not do without the assistance of the government of virginia. I requested it in the mere persuation which your excellency has since generously justified. that I should receive that assistance when it could be done with propriety, & I do not think to have requested it ever without propriety. as to the renewing of the legion, what conveniences our men have made here for themselves & their horses could not be done in any other place in the course of a month & besides, the men who did work most willingly for it was not a piece of their duty, would not undergo the same fatigues again, & I do not think any other part of the country could afford as much forage as this. as to the orders for impressing waggons, it became necessary from the same principles of insufficiency of the qt: masters at this post. I received lately a letter of genl: Weedon, who tells me that he questions if the qt: master at frederiesburg will be able to procure waggons to foward at this post the cloathing & equipments of the legion which was dayly expected there—had I had an order to impress waggons for the terms of fifteen days I would have provided a magazine of forage suffi- cient to subsist the legion while stationed here—but with the number of waggons we have now, it is impossible to supply the dayly want of that corps—& I do not know how we shall get the cloathing at this post— both, instances, which may detain us a longer time inactive by great deal & hinder totally the in raising the legion. your excellency will judge from this faithful repport the propriety or impropriety of impressing waggons—as for my part I am confident to have done what I could on the occasion— I am with great respect Sir, your obt. h'blo servt." Decem'rlYth James Hayes informs the Executive, of his having been ready for Richmond some time past, to undertake the Public Printing, but is prevented for the want of paper. The State having a considerable quantity of this Article at Westham, he requests an Order for a supply, to enable him "to perform the Public Business" with the dispatch necessary to the Public good.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 665
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 065 Col: Duvies encloses to the Governor, a Return of forage on hand col- 1781. lected in the Counties adjacent to Charlottesville—Corn 2739J Bushels— Decem'rl7th Oats 1061J B—Rye 74J— War Office There have been £1025000, advanced to Officers for the recruiting service, but not more than one hundred men received. COL: DAVIES TO THE GOVERNOR. Decem'rl7th "Sir, In the County of Rockingham and some others, there are many War Office eighteen months men who refuse to leave the County unless they receive their bounty; there was not money enough raised in the County to pay them, and when application was made to the treasury, there was none to be got there. The present state of the money makes it almost useless that the drafts should be now made on the Treasury, nor will the men receive it, as they s»y with justice, that it was not their fault that the bounty was not received while it was worth something. I beg the favor of your Excellency's instructions. I must likewise ask your Orders respectingthe claims of supernumerary Officers who were down commanding militia at the Seige of York. They pretend to have a claim to the £20, allowance of clothing in advance—" He does not think their claim a just one, but the situation of Major Klauman and "a very few others" who have been constantly in the field may deserve particular attention— W. Armstead applies to the Executive for remuneration for Mr. Deccm'r 18th Beleher, employed by him in Nov: 1780 by orders, to distribute "three Richmond bushels of salt to each of the militia who marched with Col: Mason to So. Carolina, to the number of 529 men." COL: BENJ: LOGAN TO Gov: NELSON, enclosing "Recommendations for Decem'r 18th magistrates—also for blank commissions for Militia Officers— Adds.—"As to the present distresst situation of this County I shall Saint Eseph, say but little about it, as it apears the conducting of the war in this Lincolni Ky- Western Country is invested in General Clarck, who I expect hath give you every nesscessary intelligence. if some Method is not fell upon Early the ensueing Spring to repel the Enemy, I hope Your Excellency & the Honourable Councill will Grant me the liberty & send me instruc- tions to raise two companies of Light Horse for the defence of this County. 84
Page 666
666 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR CLAIBORNE TO COL: DAVIES, accounting for the complaint made Decem'rlSth to Major Forsyth, that the Continental Artificers were not furnished provisions, as having originated from a letter written to him from Capt Rice D. Q. Master at Charlottesville, upon whom the duty of supplying the Post ncar that place rested, in which he says "7 find that I cannot do my people justice, as they refuse me State Supplies for Conti- nental purposes. Richmond The complaint was referred to Capt Peyton. Decem'rlSth BENJ: WALLER TO THE GOVERNOR. "Sir, Williamsb'g By law the Court of Admiralty is appointed to be held at the Capitol in this City, as the most convenient Place for the Judges and Suitors; that house is, and for some Time past has .been, full of the sick French Soldiers; and the Town Court-House is used as a Barrack; so that the Court by consent of the Parties has been lately held in my office, which with much Intercession is left empty. You Sir, and the Council have a Power to adjourn the court from the Capitol. and as there is a cause of some consequence lately instituted, and more may be brought, wherein the parties may not consent, to avoid Error, I must beg the Favor of you to send an order for adjourning the Court to the place where it has been lately held, which I know will be agreeable to the Judges, and I believe to all Parties, during the present Inconvenience— I have the Honor to be, Sir your most obt. hbl. Servt." Decem'rlSth CAPT: DEPONTiERE, AID TO BARON STECBEN, enclosing letters to be for- warded, to Col: Davies. Philadelphia He goes frequently to the Post office, the Baron expecting letters from him every day—no news, except that a general exchange of pris- oners, and a reorganization of the army will take place next month— The Baron sends his compliments. Decem'rl9th Miles Selden applies to the Executive, in behalf of George Pickctt Richmond and Thos. Arche, for authority to recover two horses belonging respect- ively to these gentlemen, impressed by him under orders from Gov: Nelson, and now in Maj: John Nelson's Regiment of cavalry. Since the fall of York, all impressed Horses had been returned to their owners, and those should in like manner be disposed of.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 667
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 667 DAVID Ross TO COL: DAVIES. 1781. Deeem'r 19th He had hoped to have gotten our own People to manufacturing Thread, Richmond and had engaged Mr. St. Clair at Staunton to give the proper encour- agement to the scheme; but as this has failed he must purchase the for- eign article: has just gotten a small supply from Mr. Nicolson—The great scarcity of wagons has prevented his bringing over the clothing from Petersburg. He must request the Clothier to — over there for the Blankets needed—four yards of the Cotton will make one Blanket, and he shall be furnished with thread enough to make them up. CAPT: J. PRYOR TO COL: DAVIES. Decom'r20th The Laboratory at Westham being "at a stand" he thinks it useless Richmond to retain Capt: Allen and the men there, except a guard for the maga- zine. He therefore proposes to order him down to Richmond, as keeper of the magazine, especially as he has no one to do that duty, and is hourly expecting military stores from below, which will require such necessary attention.' Requests that Capt: Young be directed to furnish the necessary quarters, fuel &c. Capt: T. Bowne, informs Col: Davies, he has been so ill for several Deeem'r20th weeks, that he has not been able to do anything towards moving the York Town cannon: a sort of work he cannot undertake unless he was "harty& well." A party of Col: Dabney's Regt. arrived the day before to assist him in removing the State mil: stores. He is surprised at this, in as much as they had all been carried away "near twenty days" ago: hence the men had nothing to do, "but march back again." ROBT. MORRIS TO GOVR. OF VIRGINIA. Deeem'r 2m "Sir, As it is very important to the public service, that I should be well Office of Fi- informed of the measures taken to promote it, in the several States of nanco the.Union, I take the Liberty of requesting your Excellency to transmit me, from Time to Time, the Laws of your State, and the minutes of the Legislature, as they are printed— I flatter myself that if this matter were suggested to the Legislature they would make provision for the purpose. With great respect I have the Honor to be, Sir, your Excellency's most obt. and humble sevt."
Page 668
668 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. DAVID Ross TO THE EXECUTIVE—Enclosing letters from Capts: Maxwell Decem'r 21st & Harris. Richmond If the ships are to be continued in the Commercial Department, as sailors are scarce, each ship should carry "30 marines & their officers"— they are wanted at once. If the State Boat "Liberty" is not at present in special service, ho will be glad to use her, to carry "Pork, Canvass & Cordage" with such hands as can be secured here for the ships. Decem'r 22d DAVID Ross TO ROBT. MORRIS, PHIL. "Sir, Richmond I am just now favour'd with your Letter of the l1th Instant, inform- ing me that you have before you, my Letter to his Excellency the Com- mander in Chief, respecting the Transactions with the British Merchants at York, together with the Bills drawn on you for the amount of the merchandize furnished to the Continental Army. I conceived this Transaction had been fully understood, and that there now remain'd nothing more to be done, but your acceptance of the Bills, which his Excellency informs me in his Letter of the 10th is done, and the Bills fowarded under your cover. The British Traders have, each of them, my obligation for the Payment of their respective advances for the Army. The Tobacco, I shall advance from the Funds assigned to my Department. I have already paid some part of it, and made the necessary arrangements for the Balance of the Tobacco due, as well as for the application of the money to be received, wherefore 'tis not in my power to make any alteration in this Transaction, and am to request that you'll be pleased to foward the Bills or give them to Mr. Thos: Pleasants if he has not left Town. The Bonds left in my hands, are to the amount of the largest Bill viz £7452..12..0Jd Sterling, pay'ble before the Bills become due, that the money might be ready to take up one of them—I am ready to give them up, on receiving the receipt I gave for them. The Bonds being at my house at Petersburg, I can't send you a Copy just now, but shall do it in a few Days. I have the Honor to be, with great Respect (Copy) Your humble Servant." Note. The Bonds are paybl. in Tobo. or money. this Indulgence was thought necessary to raise the value of the Goods sold— Decem'r 22d Capt: J. Pryor requests of Col: Davies authority to retain "the only Richmond covered waggon to be had" to transport articles in his department, which should not be exposed to the weather. He is putting up a Stable for the horses, and desires an order for forage to Keep them—
Page 669
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 669 M. SIMONS TO Gov: HARRISON. 1781. "Sir, Decem'r 23d Since I had the honor to wait on your Excellency, with a letter Richmond rec'd from Major Ross, relative to my obtaining Passports from Admiral Digby, to carry Tobacco from the Chesapeake to Charles Town, I have consulted several owners of Vessels, but find that the restrictions intended by Admiral Digby, will put it quite out of my power to procure Vessels here. I have no alternative but that of going to ncw York, & to hire vessels there to come to the Chesapeake for the Tobacco, but as your Excellency signified to me that your Permission would not be a sufficient Protection ag'st the French and American Cruizers at Sea, I humbly request that your Excellency will be pleased to write to his Excellency Genl: Washington on the subject, who I am hopefull will indulge me with a permission to go to new York, and hire Vessels there, for the purpose of coming to Virginia & to take in a certain quantity of Tobacco to carry to Charles Town or to New York, to discharge the debts con- tracted by the American Prisoners, while in So. Carolina, & that the Passports may protect the Vessels until they return to a British Party either at Charles Town or New York—Mr. Ross will inform your Excelly: what quantity of Tobacco it will be necessary for me to obtain Passports for. As I have nothing in view, but what is fair, upright and just, there can be scarce a possibility of any imposition, as I will take care that the Vessel or Vessels shall come in ballast only, from New York, and your Excellency can lay any restrictions you think proper, while they are taking in this Load." ****** I humbly beg yr: Excellency's pardon for troubling you so much on this business, but I conceive that a line from you to his Excelly: Genl: Washington is the only proper channel that I cou'd make any applica- tion, as it wou'd be necessary that Genl: Washington shou'd know that it would meet your Excellency's approbation." I have the honor to be, &c &c COL: A. THORNTON TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Decem'r24th His letter in regard to the British Prisoners said to be hiring them- Caroline Co. selves out in that County has been rec'd—He hears of not more than six or eight in that neighborhood, but learns they are scattered about in almost all the Counties, "between this and the Ridge"—He will at once order his officers to attend to this matter, and dispose of them as directed.
Page 670
670 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. JAMES ANDERSON TO COL: DAVIES—Giving reasons why he could not Decem'r26th contract with any one to furnish materials for his Shops, in as much as he had no means of knowing how such contractor was to be paid— Richmond If money had been advanced to him at the proper time he could have secured abundance of material. by which the Shops would have pros- pered—He should likewise, have looked after the Public Hides, who had the tanning of them &c—From the large numbers of beeves consumed, it might be supposed there were quantities on hand, but this is not the case, as he finds it difficult matter to secure a single hide. As to under- taking work for private individuals, he must protest against such a measure, as it will be impossible to fail to give dissatisfaction, and thereby incur censure. The public and private interests must necessa- rily clash. Indeed, so arduous and troublesome is his present situation, he much prefers to be relieved from duty altogether and be allowed to pursue his own private business. Deeem'r26th DUNCAN ROSE TO Gov: HARRISON—calling attention to a largo balance due to Mon: Beaumarchais' Agent Mr. Do Francy for goods furnished the Army in 1778. Richmond It amounts to 800 Hhds: Tobo. That gentleman had informed him by letter in April last, that he intended to have brought in the £40,000 worth of goods contracted for by the Board of Trade, and should have delivered them in time but for the occupation of the Chesapeake by the Enemy—Mr. Rose, tho' not now in a "Public Department," thinks it his duty to give this information. Decem'r26th Resolution passed, that the present situation of affairs makes it neces- General sary "to remove out of this State All the Troops of the Convention of Assembly Saratoga". The Executive to "take immediate measures" for the pur- • pose, having due regard to the "convenient accommodation" of said troops. Decem'r26th MAJOR ALEX: DICK TO COL: DAVIES. "Sir, Portsmouth "* * * * "I shall retain at this Post, one hundred men, fitt for duty. Capt: Ewell marches tomor- row with 54 men. as soon as the men recover I will send them up. the command order'd to York return'd, the Gentleman to whom they were directed having no use for them. * * * "I on the 23d laid off the men into six Companies, forming a Grenadier & light infantry Company: which two
Page 671
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 671 Companies are equal to any troops. If the Executive will allow me to 1781. procure them Grenad. & Light infantry caps, with spaterdashes, I can do Decem'r26th it here at a very cheap rate. it would not only add to the appearance of the Regt. but greatly facilitate recruiting. I must claim your promise of the 50 suits, & could you instead of 50 send me 100, I will engage to give them to recruits recruited since the Soige of York, or else return them. depending on your promise I always engage a suit to every recruit. I beg you will take speedy methods of supplying this Garrison with Provisions. for 10 Days the men were without any meat & there is a likelihood of our being in the same situation soon. our flour is just out, & the men & officers have had no rum this some time past. no one will trust the Country—one Hospital without medicine, without any conveniences for the sick, a number of men in the Small pox: we may be truly said to be in the Enemies Country. the Inhabitants of Prin- cess Ann, are constantly sending for soldiers to protect them from the Tories & Refugees, who have such secure retreats in the swamps that it will be impossible to hunt them out before the Spring. As security to that County, with the approbation of the Executive, I will erect a Redoubt at the Cape, which will not only awe those ragamuffins, but will serve as a light-House, a protection to vessels from Privateers, and an look out to this post. I have detained the armes of the Party going on Command, as 1 make no doubt they will be supplied at Richmond & they are wanting here—I understand from the Com'y there is but one Day's flour more on hand. I am Sir your most obt. H'ble Servt." COL: 'Witt. FLEMING TO Gov: HARRISON. Deeem'r26th Sir, The Rev: Adam Smyth, rector of Botetourt Parish who will deliver Botetourt Co this, waits on your Excellency to obtain permission to visit his family in Ireland. being a stranger to your Excellency, he thinks a line from me may be of some service in obtaining a permission, which I am sen- sible, from your humane disposition, you would grant on a bare recital of facts. After being some years in the ministry in Ireland, on account u of some Family misfortunes ho came over to America, leaving his wife and throe children behind. In 1773, he was presented to this parish, and in the same year was in the commission of the peace. in this char- acter he still continues to act, and is a usefull majistrate. The revolu- tion taking place, he chearfully took the Test, and swore allegiance to the States of America, and was an active member in several committees. the communication between Ireland and America being interrupted, prevented Mr. Smyth from getting his family from Ireland, only his youngest child, a boy of thirteen or fourteen years, who is now at school in this County.—his wife is dead, and his other children two young women he is anxious to bring over, and at the same time settle some
Page 672
672 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. family affairs. Mr. Smyth informs me, that he proposes to return the Decem'r26th latter end of summer, should he be favoured with Tour Excellency's & the Hon'ble the Councils permission to bring in his Family to Virginia, where he has property in this County. I am Sir, with great respect your Excellency's most obt. Servt. Decem'r26th COL: WM. FLEMING TO Gova. HARRISON. Botetourt Co He has received copy of the resolution of Genl: Assembly of June Commission- 21st, calling to account disbursing officers &c, in the western country to" setUenthd belonging to Virginia; also the order of Council appointing him in place accounts &c. of Col: Wm. Christian, in conjunction with Colo. Wm. Preston, Colo. Saml. McDowell & Colo. Thos. Marshall, to act in settling these and all other accounts with the State, and to meet for this purpose on some future day at the Falls of Ohio—In taking this step the Legislature must have supposed frauds to have been committed, and that offenders were to be brought to justice—This being so, it is all important, the powers of this Board of Commissioners should be described, in view of the great difficulties in the way of carrying out the intent of the Legis- lature, and lest mismanagement in that quarter should alienate "the affections of the Western French, and greatly weaken our interest with the Indian tribes" &c—He suggests the necessity of using the civil pow- ers, providing competent clerks; proper books in which may enter all claims adjusted—A List of the amounts advanced to officers & agents in that country should bo furnished—A table of comparative depreciation; the price of tobacco at different times—the power vested in Command- ants & Indian Agents in drawing Bills &c, and the authority to send for witnesses and papers should be considered—It appearing to him from the letter he has received, that the whole Board should be present at every meeting, and it being a distance of 450 miles from Botetourt to the Falls of the Ohio, thrugh a wilderness ': infested by Indian enemies," "the country there still more dangerous than the road," it would bo necessary to provide the Commissioners with escorts in their different adjournments"—He is willing to serve his country in any capacity, but fears he will not be able to perform this journey, his right arm being rendered almost useless by "a severe rheumatick complaint"—&c &c Decem'r27th CAPT: E. READ, VA. L. DRAGOONS TO COL: DAVIES. "Sir, Quarters I rec'd yours by Colo. Holmes, dated 17th & 18th Instant—they will be amediately cumplyed with & shall leive one of the smallest Troops of 22 men, with their officers. the Remainding two Troops of 61 men I should have marched this verry day, for new London in Bed-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 673
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 673 ford County agreeable to your orders of the third, But Col: Holmes 1781. informs me that the Acts of Assembly for impressing Provisions, Forage Decem'r27th &c is repealed & the County Commissioners & Commissarys are discon- tinued. therefore I am at a loss how to subsist the Coar to that place. the Repeal of that act has had such an eft'ect on the mindes of the people heare already, that they will not part with anything they have, with- ought the Cash & were the British Prisoners not heare, I think there would be scarcely a Suffitiancy to support our Coar of Horses through the winter. The Dragoon weights on you for my Instructions, how I'm to proceed to furnish the Coar to Bedford. we shall be in redyness to march amediately on his return." * * * * * * "I must beg leave to remind you of the clothing neces- sary for this Coar, they are getting extroem naked, particularly for Breeches & Regimentals— I have the Honour to be, your mo: Obt. Servt." COLO. JAMES WOOD TO Gov: HARRISON. Decem'r27th "Sir, By a Letter from His Excellency General Washington to General Winchester Morgan, I have received Information that the Secretary at War has appointed me to the Superintendency of the Prisoners of War in this State, and has fowarded Instructions to me, but they have not as yet come to hand. Nothing but the distressed situation of the Post for want of Flour, wou'd have induced me to Trouble your Excellency on the Occasion, before I had received the Secretary at War's Instructions. Indeed the scarcity of Provisions. and want of Discipline in the Militia has been such, as to occasion at least a Third of the Prisoners to be dis- persed over the Country; and it is evident to me, that unless the Exec- utive of Virginia are authorized to make Provision for the subsistence of the Prisoners and Guards, until the Financier General can take up the matter, it will very shortly end in the dispersion of both. I am now endeavouring to procure a small quantity of Flour, on my own Credit to serve them til I hear from your Excellency & which I hope I shall be able to effect. I must beg that your Hon'ble Board, will, if you should think it Proper, give me Power to call upon the Counties who are to furnish the Guards as occasion may require, which shall be done by regular detail and in Proportion with their strength. I am just now informed by-.Capt: Read, that he is directed to leave fifteen Light Dragoons at this Post for Patrols. I must beg leave to refer it to your consideration whether it would not be advissable to increase the number to a full Troop, considering how much the Pris- oners are Dispersed, and the- difficulty which will attend the collecting them. Capt: Read tells me that he is to march the remaining part of 35
Page 674
674 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. the Corps to Bedford, but how he is to effect it or Provide Forage while Decem'r27th they remain here, I am at the Greatest Loss to Devise, as I am informed the impress Law is repealed—I have the Honor to be, with the greatest respect and Esteem, Sir, Yr: Excellency's very ob. Servt." Dccem'r27th WM. HAY, Ass: Com: Agent enclosing to the Governor, the petition of one Mary Sanders of Louisa Co., praying the release and discharge of her Husband condemned to work in the Lead Mines in Montgomery County in 1780. Richmond Mr. Hay urges the granting the petition, under the painful circum- stances of the case. Decem'r28th GENL: NATH'L GREEN TO COL: WM. DAVIES. "Dear Sir, Head Quar- This will be handed you by Captain Ragsdale, who comes to '' solicit immediate reinforcements from Virrginia in consequence of the very great additional force, the enemy are daily expecting to receive. Let me beg you to have all the Virginia Troops fowarded without a moments loss of time. I have been told that Col: Fobiger is not willing to come out into this Country. Should that be the case I could wish Colonel Mathews, if he is exchanged may take Command of the first Regiment that marches— I am at a loss to know how or where to address myself, now the Mar- quiss and the Baron are gonc, or who has the command of the Conti- nental Troops. Be it who it may, Capt: Ragsdale has a letter to him— For God's Sake, my Dear Sir, give no sleep to your eyes, or slumber to your eye lids 'till you get the troops on the march— Capt: Ragsdale has also Orders to apply for 2000 militia, and to get 2000 beeves put up to stall feed for this Army. Please to lend your aid in the business, and foward us a good quantity of Spirits, if you intend we shall either live or fight— If Virginia does not exert herself for our aid, we are inevitably ruined. An individual can do but little without assistance, and I beg the Legislature and Executive of your State not to deceive themselves with false hopes. fresh misfortunes will arise without effectual assistance, and that may lay a train again of ne^ calamities in Virginia. But besides what concerns her own Safety, she should not be unmindfull of the sufferings and distresses of her Sister States. Something must be done in your State to give more effectual aid to the business of trans- portation. Colonel Carrington says he can get no assistance. I am D'r Sir, Your most obedient Humble Servant."
Page 675
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 675 MEMORIAL OF DANL: MURRAY TO THE VA. DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1781. praying for relief— Decem'r 29th In 1776 he was left in charge of the affairs of his brother Wm. Mur- Philadelphia ray in the Illinois Country. with orders to give every assistance to any American Troops that might arrive there. These instructions were repeated by his brother, thro' Col: Geo: Gibson who came from N. Orleans to that Country. Under these circumstances he did supply Colo. George Rogers Chirk with large quantities of Flour, beef, Pork, Salt, Tallow, Liquor and Merchandize for Continental currency at gold valua- tion,—and induced the French Inhabitants to do likewise. He then did not stop to consider the rapid depreciation of the money. In addition to this, he served in person, in the expeditions, and all other military ope- rations under Col: Clark in that Country, whereby his health has been seriously impaired. Upon Col: Clark's importunities and from attach- ment to the American cause he had consented to "fill the Posts of Quar- ter Master & Commissary" under him, much to the prejudice of his own Affairs—After Col: Clark's withdrawal from the Country, he continued to exert himself and "stran'd every nerve for the good of the Service" under Col: Montgomery; and when the Powerful Tribe of Kickapoo Indians came to the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, with their dis- tresses, demanding the means of clothing their women and children, and applying for ammunition and provisions, with which to annoy the British and kill food for themselves, or else go to Detroit and make terms with the latter; and when the Superintendent Capt: Leonard Helm, on account of the depreciation of the Currency in that Country, could not comply with these demands, altho' he had not the Articles, made use of his personal credit and procured them; whereby the Indians "were sent away satisfied"— On all occasions he has aided the Troops of Virginia, but has never received anything but depreciated currency, or Bills of Exchange, which he lent to Col: Montgomery for recruiting purposes taking Bills on the Treasury of Va: in return. Has never received any pay during the time he was in active Service.— Upon the evacuation of "the Illinois", having advanced all the prop- erty he had, belonging to his brother, by consent of Capt: John Rogers, the then Commanding Officer, he was obliged to leave the Country— Went down the Mississippi to N. Orleans. and on the passage to Virginia via Havanna was captured by the Enemy and carried to N. York; hav- ing been obliged, for want of funds, to appeal to the Spanish Comdt., who only advanced him his passage to Havanna. Under these circumstances he prays they will take into consideration the premises, and save himself and brother from ruin, by prevailing upon the State of Virginia to pay the two Bills, for 6484J Dollars, and 1590 Dolls: specie, respectively, drawn by Colo. Montgomery—
Page 676
676 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. MAJOR Tuos: POSEY TO COL: DAVIES—, by Lieut: Stokly, to whom he Decem'rSOth requests the Warrants establishing Maj: Finley's and his own rank, may be delivered. Cumberland Hopes the Assembly has considered the wants of the Va. Line—Many '' nccessaries nceded before his Detachment can march—Clothing for the men and money for the Officers—He hears there is to be a "new arrange- ment" of the army, upon what basis he has not learned—Asks if it be true? A Board of Reorganization had once been ordered by authority to fix the rank of the A^a. Line: it acted and has become legal—Genl: Green has a copy of that "Arrangement". and if there has been any ncglect in the matter, it has been "in not sending of it to Congress or the Board of War." Decem'r 31st Petition of John Chapman, Prince Wm. Co: James Robinson Do. and Reuben Griffis of Mecklenburg Co. to the Executive for Pardon; they being condemned to death, by hanging: for burglary und horse-s teal ing. Decem'r 3lst PETERFIELD TRENT TO MAJOR CLAIBORNE. Weir Hall In the spring of 1780 Congress ordered that part of the Continental Troops should be stationed at Chesterfield Court House. Barracks were built there for them: about onc hundred houses—the timber for which, and the fire-wood subsequently consumed was cut off his lands—his plank and scantling and fences were also burned by the Troops—He lent Smiths' Tools also to the Q. Master, but have never been returned. Col: Davies, who commanded at this Post at one time, and Capts: Tar- pley, White and John Burford the Quarter Master, can doubtless certify to the above facts—He therefore trusts his charge against the United States will he duly considered. Decem'r 31st WM. ROSE, KEEPER OF THE PUBLIC JAIL, TO THE GOVERNOR, Covering Richmond several enclosures and a "Papercontaining some Information respect- ing a desperate Gang of Plunderers who have long infested the Caro- linas"—written by a young man, a prisoner, named Jackson, who seems very penitent, and gives this statement "as the only reparation in his present situation is capable of rendering his injured Country." He is anxious to appear before the Council, to say something for him- self, for having been guilty of one "mistake of Judgment" in forsaking his country, because he was accused of "cowardice at the Battle of Steno"—The information he gives is as follows,
Page 677
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 677 "To his Excellency the Governor and the Hon'ble Council" 1781. "May it please your Excellency and Honors Docem'r 31st "The Banditti who stiled themselves a Company of North Carolina Independents, composed of Horse Theives, Counterfeeters of Money and Persons guilty of ather high Crimes and Misdemeanors, chiefly natives of North Carolina, and followers of Lord Cornwallis, were in the Garrison of Gloucester at the Time of the surrender to his Excellency General Washington and though expressly excluded the Benefits of the Capitulation; yet they found means to elude the vigilance of the Army and the civil Powers, by mix- ing with the British Prisoners. disguised in the uniforms of Robinsons & Hamilton's Regiments, and actually march'd out with the Regiments to the Stations of Winchester and Fredericktown. The uniforms were furnished by the Quarter Masters of the Regiments to as many as ask'd for them, the better to facilitate their Escape. That these men never bore any Commissions in the British Army or ever rec'd any Pay, but lived by plundering is universally known, except Branson and Jones: the former of whom obtained a Captaincy by some undue influence while the Terms of Capitulation were framing, and in order to exculpate him from the punishment due to his crimes, it was dated prior to the surrender. During the Seige, Branson and Jones, in an importunate address to Major Ross, one of his Lordship's Aids, petitioned for their Pay. the Major told them their prayer could not be granted, but if they would frame an account against his Lordship for some subsistence money he would assist them, and soon after gave Branson 40 Guineas, and Jones eight Guineas, which was all they ever received, to the best of my knowledge. That Saml: Jones and his Party accompanied Colonel Tarleton in his excursion to the mountains and were the People who plundered Mr. Jefferson's House, and all others in the Line of march. That an exceeding beautiful Bay Horse, which Tarleton delivered his Groom in Gloster Town, is the lawful property of Mr. Jeremiah Wade on Pedee in North Carolina—He is abt. 16 hands high, has a star or small blaze in his forehead, about 6 or 7 yrs: of age and worth at least 200 guineas. That these People were the actual and almost the only Plunderers of the Carolinas and this State, is too notorious to be doubted. They perpetrated their Robberies in Regimentals, each chief or Head man had his party, who always took different Routs, and generally returned at night to their Station, or Encampment, which was always detached a small distance from the soldiery, where they examined their plunder and disposed of it at vendue: but this business was never attempted until the General had performed his nightly circuit round the Camp, when the vendeus began, and continued an hour, and sometimes longer. At these vendeus I have now and then seen a few Officers of Distinction, whose curiosity led them to view the Plunder and the Plun- derers, but they seldom bought anything. The inferior Officers of the
Page 678
678 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Army, Soldiers, Followers and adjacent Tories were the principal Pur- Decem'r 31st chasers. From my situation in Caml), being chiefly with the Merchants, the names and Persons of most of the Banditti became familiar to my view, and from the frequent walks, which I afterwards made to their Encampments in the Evening, sometimes with one Officer, and sometimes with another, I had occular proofs of their plundering. And should it be thought expedient to apprehend them, I will chearfully lend my best assistance. I cannot however quit this narrative, without informing your Excellency and Honors, that a plan was concocted and determined upon by the Cheifs. and agreed to by their Parties, prior to their leaving Gloster Town to throw of their Disguise, whenever a favorable oppor- tunity presented, and escape as they could from the stations to which they were sent, and make the best of their way to the rendezvous appointed for them in the Jerseys—viz Squan and Shrewsbury, where Whale Boats were to be sent to convey them to New York. I hope this warning will be timely and sufficient to prevent their escaping by that Route. Some valuable Property, Plate &c may probably yet be found in their possession." Names." Ely Branson—Commandant Samuel Jones ^ James Hunter I Heads of Parties James Blair i Jerman Baxter' Number of the Gang, about 100. Mausey, Maxsey, or Mack- Sey, a Captain of a Select Plundering Party at Portsmouth—He is a native of So: Carolina, and in a skirmish in that Country, I had the pleasure of cutting a piece of his Ear off, with my sword— A noted Williams from North Carolina, a Capt: of a Cow Stealing party of about 20 in number—These also escaped with the British Prisoners, in Robinsons & Hamilton's military masquerade—If these People were immediately apprehended, and a list of their names published in the Virginia and Carolina Papers (unless it be conceived more eligible to march them there under a strong guard) the injured inhabitants would apply for vengeance, and produce ample Testimony against them for reiterated offences." Mr. Rose further says, that soon after the Fall of York some "armed men from Carolina" came and enquired whether he had in custody any Refugees from that State; and upon enquiry after the "Cheifs." found they had made their escape in the "Bonetta" Sloop of War, to New York, and "their Gangs had managed matters so well as to go off undis- covered with the capt'red army disguised as Soldiers." The evidence given by this young man Jackson, therefore confirms his conclusions made at that time.
Page 679
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 679 COL: ISAAC SHELBY TO COL: ARTHUR CAMPBELL. 1781. "Dear Col., Decem'r 31st The Bearer Col: Montgomery, just about starting from here, My Father's, on my receiving some Intelligence from Col: Martin, gives me a hasty 8ullivan Co. oppy: of riting you a few lines on that head. I have pent you Col: Martin's letter & a copy of Vanns to him, by which you'l see the impending Stroke that Threatens from that quarter. a talk from Oconastota & several other chiefs that came also." * * "The substance of the whole is, they wish us immediately to make a Stroke at the Chickamoggy People; that the upper Towns consider themselves in imminent Danger unless wee do something shortly. That great assistance is promised to the Chickomoggy People by the Creeks & that now would be the time for us to strike, before they collect. The Old Warrior complained a little of Brown's Affair over broad River. the fellows that were killed were frome the Middle Settlements, one principle cheif & 4 fellows. tho' says that it shall have no 111 conse- Luences to his People nor those of the Middle Settlements—" I should be glad to here your opinion on the propriety of carrying on an expedition ag'st them—for my part I think the number Martin men- tions too few & 1 think could not go of so suddenly, however we can easily raise men enough to do their job and go before they can expect us. excuse haste I am Sir, yours sincerely. Martin's Letter enclosed. Battleground ye 29th Dem'r 1781. "Dear Colo., Inclosed I send you tho Intiligence from the Cherokee Nation. Could it be Done with Convenience, it would be well Done, for you to March Immediately against Scott. I think one hundred men well mounted would Do the Business. I should think myself happy to be one of the Number. a Sudden Check on that quarter, I think would put a stop to all Depredations this Winter. having no Interpreter Cannot send you any further Acts. please to Coppy tho Intiligence & Send Back tho Talks, as I want to send them to Colo. Sevier—please to send Colo. Campbell a Copy assoon as possible."
Page 680
680 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. DUDLEY DIGGES TO Gov: HARRISON, in regard to the claim of Mary Decem'r 31st Harris of Gloucester for damages donc by the French Troops. King's Mill The Count do Rochambeau thinks her application should have been made to the French Genl: who commanded in Gloucester or to Genl: Weedon. He however will make enquiry into the ease, and altho' the rule is that each particular Corps shall pay for its own damages done, if the case is a meritorious one, he "will grant her some satisfaction by way of a present". He has just begun the "difficult business of examining the claims of Persons," where no certificates were given by the combined armies. This is indeed a difficult undertaking and he begs the Executive will at once direct the Clerk of the Council to advertize in the Gazette, requir- ing all persons to present their claims within a limited time to himself as appointed by the Executive for this business, or to "Mons: Deville- mansy, Commissary of War of his most Christian Majesty's Army at Williamsburg," who is appointed by Count Rochambeau. Not having received any definite Instructions upon what basis to settle these claims, he desires directions, as to whether he is to grant certifi- cates to persons proving their claims, and whether the amount of "damages in kind" are to be registered in a Book, "to be delivered by me to the Executive after all claims have been re'd?"—"Whether this rule must not be observed generally with respect to all persons who are to receive satisfaction from the state only, and the French army charged by this state with the amount of the proportion that may be found to be properly and justly chargeable to it?" He begs an early reply. Decem'r 31st Soldiers acct. of clothing &c—shewing price of Coats £2.12.s—Leather Breeches £1. 4 shillings—Overalls 18 shillings—one pr: stockings 12 shills: "One Hatt & 2 shirts £3. 4 shill:—one pair shoes and a blankett £2.14. &c. Decem'r 31st COL: CHRIST: FEBIGER TO COL: WM. DAVIES. Dr. Colo, ****** Cumberland "Pray let us have the Blanketts, Be they ever so bad—The overalls Old C. H. issued to t^e men are wearing out very fast, as the poor Devils, for want of Blanketts or a second Shirt, are oblig'd to have them constantly on— Col: Carrington told me when he was here, that the stores sent to the Southern Army were not adequate to their Demands." * * * I must confess I am not acquainted with the manner in which sup- plies of cloathing or any thing else has been obtained in the State—I always suppos'd Capt: Peyton to be Continental Clothier to the Troops
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 681
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 681 of the State. I know he has many valuable Continental Soldiers for the 1781. war, now at work in the Factories, which is the case in several places Decem'r 31st as I am informed. I have wrote Capt: Singleton and Colo. Carrington for military stores. I have also wrote Major Clayborne, & Lieut: Smith. my Q. M'r, goes down with orders to procure what he can—Doctor Farish, Surgeon's Mate to Harrison's Artillery, is also going down to procure some medicines and Hospital stores from the Purveyor. if you can be of any Service to him, you will confer a singular Favour on 56 miserable, sick naked & starving wretches. I wish it was possible to obtain our supplies regularly from the Continental Department, it would save mo much Trouble. this is the last sheet of 8 quires of paper within four weeks, that I have wrote to the different Departments, to no pur- pose. as for the Paymaster Colo. Ben Harrison, I am very certain that unless the money is deliver'd him by the State, all applications to him are useless—the States of Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland have issued money and cloaths to Regimental Paymasters and taken their Receipts as sufficient vouchers to make it a Continental charge. the State of Pennsylvania appointed a Committee from their house of Assembly to settle with and pay off their discharg'd soldiers—" * * "I think you wrote me some time about the 17th of last month, that there was a probability of some spirit, and other necessarys to be pro- cur'd. I have directed Lieut: Smith to apply to the Continental Com- missary, who 1 suppose will apply to you. I have seen your memorial* to the house, and am much pleas'd with it & hope the best effects from it—I have not yett seen General Scott, consequently I know not what is done. * * * "If you will permitt it I have requested Mr. Stockly to take a copy of the proceedings of the joint Committee on our Busi- ness, as it would give great satisfaction to the officers to see it—wishing you present bettor health, with Mrs. Febiger's best compliments &c, I am Dr. Colo'l very sincerely yours. MEMORIAL OF WM. HOLT TO THE EXECUTIVE, praying for relief, in that James City he has "Merchant Mills in the Counties of James City and New Kent, Co. capable of manufacturing seventy five thousand bushels of wheat yearly", but is deprived of the benefit of those Mills for want of an "Inspection of Flour" more convenient than that established by Law at Cabin Point— The inconvenience and expence of sending grain, and transporting the flour being more than he can bear. * Elsewhere recorded. 86
Page 682
682 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. To his Excellency Thos: Nelson Esqr. Governor &c and the Hon'ble Council of Virginia— Hampshire The petition of John Claypole, Thos: Denton, David Roberts Jun'r Mathias Wilkins, and George Wilkins, Inhabitants of Cacapon in the County of Hampshire Humbly Sheweth That your petitioners living in an obscure and remote corner of the State, are precluded from every Intelligence of the State of affaire, either by Public Papers or from Information of Men of Credit and Veracity, and at the same time infested by the wicked Emmissaries or pretended Emmissaries of the.British who travel through all parts of the Frontiers, and by Misrepresentations and false news poisoned the Minds of the Ignorant and credulous Settlers: That your petitioners, from naiTow and confin'd notions, & Attached too strongly to their Interests, conceived the Act for laying the enormous Tax of Eighty Two Pounds paper Money on every hundred pounds of their property, rated in Specie, and a Bounty for the recruits of the Continental Army, and the Law subjecting them, at the same time to be draughted for the said Service, and the further Act for Cloathing the Army, as unjust and oppressive after paying such a high tax on their Assessed property, and those wicked and designing men by their artfull insinuations & false Intelligences industriously propagated to delude & seduce your petition- ers, too readily prevailed on them to oppose the Execution of the said Acts, and take up Arms in defence of what those wretches called their Liberty and property. But your Petitioners Humbly shew that they never concocted or conspired the destruction of Government, or the hurt of any Individuals, further than to defend themselves when attacked or compelled to yield obedience to those Laws. And when your petitioners were made sensible of their Error, by the Gentlemen from the Adjacent Counties, who marched a body of men sufficient to have put all the disobedient & deluded crew to the Sword, but from motives of humanity & prudence attempted the more mild method of Argument to dispel the delusion, and bring them back to their duty, your Petitioners, ready to receive information, and open to correction, readily gave up their Arms and engaged to deliver themselves to Justice and submit to the Laws of their Country when called for; which they have since done and stood their Trials in the County Court of Hamp- shire, and were by that Court adjudged to stand a further Tryal before a Special Court of Oyer and Terminer, appointed to meet at that Court House on the Tenth Day of July last, but the Gentlemen nominated as Judges by the Hon'ble Board failing to attend, the prosecution was postponed. And your petitioners were then Informed by a Proclama- tion under the hand of the County Lieutenant, that the Executive, ever prone to adopt the most lenient measures to penitent offenders, offered
Page 683
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 683 pardon and Indemnity to all those concerncd in the late insurrection, if 1781. they would return to their duty, and behave as good Citizens in future. And your petitioners impressed with a deep Sense of the gracious Inten- tions of your Excellency and the Hon'ble Board, towards the Ignorant and deluded, were encouraged to sue for pardon; & that the same Act of grace might be extended towards them, since they humbly conceive their Conduct has been more Consonant to the Duty of good Citizens, who conscious that they have Transgress'd against the Laws of their Country, readily delivered themselves to Justice and to Tryal by their Peers, to suffer the punishment due to their crimes, tho' committed thro' Ignorance and misguided zeal; Whereas those who have availed them- selves of the said Proclamation, tho' equally guilty, did not come in until their safety was insured to them by the promise of pardon. Wherefore, your Petitioners humbly hope, from tho known Clemency of your Excellency, and that Equianimity that governs the Councils of the Hon'ble Board, that they will be graciously pleased to pardon their past offences, and include them in the Act of Indemnity so mercifully held out to offenders under the like circumstances, and they engage, on the Faith of honest Citizens to Act a true and faithful part to the State in future, if they are released from further prosecution, and restored to the privileges of other Citizens: which your petitioner John Claypole is more encouraged to expect, from a letter of Genl: morgan's to your said Petitioner, wherein he promises to procure his pardon, on his returning to his Allegiance and becoming a Good Citizen; this he hum- bly conceives his behavior has done since he was convinced of his Error, and freed from those mistaken prejudices that seduced him from his duty—Wherefore, in deep Contrition for their past misconduct and sin- cere promise of conducting themselves as good citizens for the time to come, they humbly pray for Pardon, and that the Hon'ble Board will save their innocent wives and children from ruin and misery, which they must necessarily be involved in, for the crimes of their deluded Hus- bands and Parents, And your Petitioners shall over pray &c." PETITION OF CITIZENS TO THE EXECUTIVE for the pardon of John Clay- Hampshire pole, on account of his previous good standing as an "Honest Peacable Co. well meaning man." Numerously signed, tho following names appearing among the signa- tures—Vandeventer, Ruddell, Hutton, Bullett, Bird, Hite, Van Meter, Randall, Yause, Lynch, Ashby, Harris, Shanklin, and many others.
Page 684
684 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. Petition of sundry persons, accused of "disaffection to the State" and confined in the Public Jail, praying for speedy trial, feeling convinced they can prove their innocence &c—viz Thos: Holt, John Eagles, Thos. Thomas, John Logan, Silas Doggett, Thos: Ripley, Jos: Shoemaker, Edwd. Murphy, Littleton Ward, Newton Connely, John Weans, Edmund Windo, James Hughes, John Royall, Wm. Piner, Saml: Billey, Alex: Montgomery, Jno: Jaram, Jas: Davis, Thos. Hughes, Thos: Watson, Francis Jaram, John Hughes, and Jacob Williams. Amelia Co. "To his Excellency Thomas Nelson Jun'r Governor, and the Honour- able Council of the State of Virginia— The Petition of the Inhabitants of the County of Amelia, Humbly sheweth, that in a late excurtion of one of the British Legions through this County, many of your petitioners were Plundered and robbed of their Slaves, Horses, Cloaths and other valuable Effects: that these outrages were cheifly perpetrated by small detachments of the Enemy, who frequently ventured out, three or four miles from the main Body, armed only with swords and Pistols; many of these Parties your Petitioners think, might easily have been cut off, had they been suffi- ciently provided with arms—That the few Guns, Powder and lead, which remained in private Families last spring, were seized and taken from them for the use of the militia ordered to the assistance of Genl: Green. So that your Petitioners were in the most defenceless condition imaginable when the British Legion invaded their County; that this Legion did not consist of more than three Hundred Effective men, and the detached Parties were often made up of two or three Negroes and one Sojdier only, arm'd as above mentioned: such were our Ravagers— and by such, for want of arms, we had, many of us, the mortification to see our most valuable effects distroyed or torn from us. Had your Peti- tioners been properly armed, they think that the Injuries they suffered might, in a great measure, if not altogether, have been prevented, and the greater Part of the Public stores in this County secured— Your Petitioners therefore Pray, that the militia of this County may be furnished with arms and ammunition, so as to enable them, at least to repel the future attempts of any single Legion and to secure their Property against any ravaging Parties of the Enemy, and your Peti- tioners shall ever Pray &c &c." Signed by several hundred citizens, among whom appear the names of Anderson, Osborne, Parham, Hastins, Jones, Dison, Featherstone, McDearman, Thornton, Mann, Cabaniss, Farley, Bruce, Dudley, Waller, Harrison, Wilkinson, Winn, Ellis, Pace, Hoskins, Epes, Ric'd Kennon Cralle, Irby, Robertson, Booth, Neal, Vaughan, Howlitt, Perkiuson, Munford, Towncs, Woodson, Crowder, Eggleston, Tucker, Marshall, Pol- lard, Coleman, Deaton, Harris, Clement, Jeter, Sherwin, Royal, Hundley, Booker, Bailey, Ford, Lewis, Old, Winfrey, Nunnally, Cox, Chappie, Randolph, Stainback, Crenshaw, &c &c.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 685
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 685 Two "Charts of Cyphers" for secret correspondence; furnished by 1781. Congress—One based upon an arbitrary arrangement of numerals to represent words, and syllables—the other upon the consecutive sequence of numerals from 1 to 846, inclusive, each representing a word, a sylla- ble or certain signs; as marks of quotation, parentheses &c. "I, A. B. Do declare myself a Subject of the Commonwealth of Vir- ginia. I relinquish and renounce the Character of Citizen or Subject of any other State or Prince whatsoever, and abjure all allegiance which may be claimed by them or any of them, And I do Swear to be faithful and true to the said Commonwealth of Virginia, so long as I continue a Citizen thereof—So help me God." You shall swear that you will well and truly execute the office of a Delegate in General Assembly, according to tho best of your skill and judgment. So help you God. "Members Sworn of House of Delegates"—J. Prentis, Henry Field jnr:, John Watkins, Wm. Moore, Johnny Scott. Sworn of the Senate—W. Fitzhugh. "A PLAN* or THE DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS, NECESSARY IN THE STATE, BY COLO. MERIWETHER SMITH." General Assembly, Governor & Council, Superintendent of Finance, Treasurer, Paymaster to tho War Department, Commissioner of War, Commissary of Provisions, Commissary of Military Stores, Quarter Master General, Auditor for War Office, Secretary of Marine, Treasurer of Marine, Master of Yards & Docks, Naval Commissary of Provisions, Commissary of Naval Stores, Auditors for Navy, Receiver General on the revenues—, Auditors General—. Their relative importance in the arrangement, being illustrated by means of "a Chart," showing tho Genl: Assembly as the source of, and the other departments as relatively dependent, in the order herein named. * A curious and novel idea.
Page 686
686 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. "PETITION OF JACOB BRAKE AND OTHERS," for pardon for having through Hampshire ignorance, and the persuasion of others. joined in the late "Conspiracy against the State the object of which was to refuse payment of Taxes, and to oppose the Act of Oct: 1780 for raising Troops for the Service"— Setting forth the same reasons given in John Claypole's application, why they should enjoy Executive clemency, and adding, that they "have been instrumental in detecting and bringing in some of the Prin- cipal Conspirators to Justice &c"—. Signed by—Jacob Brake. Adam Rodebaugh, John Mace, Michael Algrie, Isaac Brake, John Mitchell, Saml: Louric, Leonard Hier, Jacob Hicr, George Peck, John Casner, Jacob Yeazle, Thos: Nutler, Thos: Stacey, John Rodebaugh, Henry Rodebaugh, Jacob House, Jeremiah Ozburn, Jacob Crites, Anthony Reager, Josiah Ozburn, George Lites, Charles Borrer, Jacob Pickle, John Wease, Adam Wease, & Adam Wease Jur:— Benj: Payne, a Mulatto, Servant to Frank Childress, required by his Master to serve in the Army as a Substitute for John Childress brother to Frank Childress,—He was to repair to Cumberland Old Ct: House and "clear him (Childress) from the Service"—: should then desert and return to Frank Childress, where he should be protected until John Childress should go to New River—In consequence of this Payne deserted and returned to Frank Childress, where he was arrested by a guard sent in pursuit of him. "PLAN* OF ARRANGEMENT FOR THE QUARTER MASTER'S DEPARTMENT, PRO- POSED BY CAPT: YOUNG. 1st That there be one Q. M. Genl: and one Assistant Q. M. Genl: appointed by the Governor and Council. 2d That the Quarter Master Genl: appoint as many deputy Clerks as the service may necessarily require, and shall be approved by the Gov- ernor and Council. 3d That it be the duty of the Quarter Master General to reside near the Governor and Council, to receive such orders in his department, as they may think proper to issue, and give the necessary directions for the speedy execution of the same. That he take under his immediate direction the whole of the forage that may be collected within the State and after reserving as much as may be sufficient for the exigencies of * The exact date of this "Plan " does not appear, but it is evident, from the tenor and substance of the official correspondence and other documents herein recorded, that its provisions were in full force, chiefly in the latter part of the war: hence it may have been adopted in the early part of the year 1781.
Page 687
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 687 the State & the requisitions of Congress, shall deliver the remainder to 1781. the Commercial Agent to be disposed of for the benefit of the public— That he cause proper returns of all persons employ'd by him, and of all stores belonging to his department to be made to the War Office, to be laid before the Governor & Council for their satisfaction, once in every three months. That the first returns be made the first day of October next. That his accts. of disbursements be laid before the Board of Auditors for settlement once in every three months, the first settlement to be made the first day of next— 4th That the duty of the Assistant Quarter Master Genl: be, to reside with the Quarter M. Genl:. To frame plans for keeping accounts, and accommodate them in the best manner possible for preserving regularity, and after approv'd of, by the Quarter Master Genl: transmit them to the several persons employ'd in the department, as a rule for their stating & keeping their accounts. That he keep an exact list of all persons employ'd in the department, specifying the time of their entering into service, the term engag'd for & their pay pr: month— That he call on the deputy Quarter Masters, Forage Masters, Waggon Masters, and all other persons employed in the department for their returns & accounts quarterly, & prepare the same for the inspection of the Q. M. Genl:, and after approv'd by him, shall lay the returns before the Executive for their satisfaction & present the accts. to the Board of Auditors for settlement— 5th That there be one or more forage masters, as the service may require, appointed by the Quarter Master Genl: whose duty shall be to procure forage from the Magazines, (if to be had) or otherwise, by order of the Q. M. Genl:, shall purchase as much as may be necessary & Issue the same for the Horses belonging to the Public & persons who are enti- tled to forage, in such proportion as hereafter mentioned. That he be under the immediate direction of the Quarter Mast: Genl: or his deputy, at a seperate Post, and make monthly returns of receivals & Issues, pro- ducing proper vouchers for the same. 6th That there be one or more waggon-masters as the service may require, appointed by the Q. M. Genl:, whose duty shall be to take charge of all Public Waggons, teams & Geer, that may be put under his care, & make proper returns thereof to the Q. M. Genl: or his deputy, at a Seperate Post, as often as required agreeable to the form prescribed by the Assistant Q. M. Genl:, and that he be under the immediate direc- tion of the Quarter Master General— 7th That there be one or more hostlers, as the service may require, employ'd by the Quarter M. Genl: whose duty shall be to keep a Descrip- tive list of all horses put under his care, that he deliver no horses but on the Order of the Q. M. G—his assistant or Deputy, and that he make returns of all horses under his care to the Q. M. Genl's office, when requir'd—
Page 688
688 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. 8th That artificers, armourers, waggoners, watermen, Express riders &c, may be employ'd by the Q. M. Geul: his assistant or deputys, in such numbers, for such length of time & on the best possible terms, as the service may require, and shall be approv'd of by the Executive— 9th That a ration of forage, consist of two Gallons of corn or three gallons of oats, and (if to be had) twelve pounds of hay or fodder pr: day— 10. That persons in public service who are allow'd forage and do not make proper application for & draw the same, shall not be paid for defi- cioncys. But in case application is made at a proper post & the Forage cannot be furnished, they shall be entitled to receive the forage due or money in lieu thereof, at the discretion of the Q. M. Genl. -Pay- That the pay of the Q. M. Genl: shall be one hundred dollars specie pr: month in public service, that he be allowed forage for as many horses as may be necessary of his own horses as he may think proper to keep not exceeding three, and three rations a day: otherwise that he be allowed the use of three public horses, when necessary— That the pay of the Assistant Q. M. Genl: shall be seventy five dolls: pr: month. That ho be allow'd one public horse and two rations pro- visions, and one ration of forage for his own Horse, if employ'd in the public service— That the pay of a Deputy shall be sixty dolls: pr: month—that he be allowed the use of one public horse and one ration of provisions a day— That the pay of a Clerk shall be forty dolls: p'r month & one Ration. Pay of a forage Master, shall be forty doll's pr: month, and ho be allowed the use of one public horse, & one ration of prov: per day. Pay & allow: of a Waggon Master, be thirty five dolls: pr: month, the use of one public horse & one ration provisions— Pay of a Hostler shall be twenty dolls per month & one ration a day. That all persons employ'd in the Department, that may be ordered on business from the post to which they properly belong shall have their reasonable expences allow'd them— That the Deputy Q. Master at a soperate Post, be allow'd two clerks, one of which shall do the duty of Forage Master at that Post, and be allowed the use of a public horse— Artificers shall not be entitled to a larger allowance of provisions than the Soldiers in the Army. That the Q. M. Genl: apply to the Commissary Genl: of Issues, to appoint Deputy Commissaries to the different Posts he may think fit to establish, subject to the previous approbation of Government. That the pay of all persons employed in the Q. Masters Department, shall be rated in specie, and payable in paper currency at the — •—- to be paid monthly by the Q. M. Genl: his Assistant or Deputys, on proper pay-rolls being presented by the Superintendent of each branch of business in the department.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 689
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 689 HENRY RIDDICK, MICH'L KING, KINCHEN GODWIN, AND JOHN COLES, 1781. JUSTICES OF THE PEACE, TO Gov: NELSON, recommending the pardon Nan of three negro slaves, condemned by them as a Court of Oyor & Tor- miner, to suffer death, for burglary: on the ground that these ncgroes were instigated to commit the robbery by two white men, viz Homy Skinner the master of one, and Joseph Sketo, the receiver of most of the stolen goods— They had entered the houses of Isaac Lasseter and John Norfleet. "BY HIS EXCELLENCY THOMAS NELSON JNR: ESQUIRE, GOVERNOR OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA—" "To Captain John Randolph &ca., Whereas the superiority of the enemy's Cavalry will be attended with Form of im- the most fatal consequences to the freedom & property of the good people of this Commonwealth unless immediately counteracted, which can only therefor be done by securing for the public defence, as many proper horses as will he sufficient for the purposes of repelling the attempts of the enemy, and preventing their incursions: And whereas the honorable, the Major Genl: the Marquis la Fayette has strongly urged the necessity of imme- diate attention to this matter, which cannot otherwise be effected in the present conjuncture, than by way of impressment; I have therefore, thought fit, by and with the advice and consent of the Council of State, to issue this my warrant, authorizing and empowering you and each of you to impress for the mounting of the cavalry, such a number of horses as may be necessary, not exceeding however, one hundred horses in the total, to be so impressed by you collectively— And whereas complaints of abuses have arisen from former impress- ments, to the oppression of the people, and the great displeasure of Government, I do therefore, hereby strictly enjoin you to pay special regard to distributive justice, and the circumstances of the Inhabitants. impressing under no pretence whatever any horses employed in remov- ing families or their effects: nor any stud-horse or broodmare, unless they shall be found within the power of the encmy; in which case the proof shall lie upon you. And I do further authorize and require yon and each of you to cause due appraisement of every impressed horse to be made in specie, on oath by two indifferent persons, and certificates thereof delivered to the owncr, or his agent, specifying the purpose for which such horse was taken. You will also transmit an exact return to the Auditor's Office, of the impressments you may make, expressing the owners name »nd the valuation of each horse, signed by you respectively and officially. 87
Page 690
690 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. And to prevent as much as possible every occasion of disquiet in the minds of the good people of this Commonwealth, I do further hereby strictly enjoin and require, that you and each of you, in the execution of this my warrant, use all possible tenderness towards the inhabitants, always taking care previous to every impressment, to read or otherwise make known to the person, whose horse shall be impressed, the term and contents of this my warrant, under the penalty of forfeiting, for neglect thereof, double the value of the horse so impressed, agreeable to the directions of an act passed the last session of Assembly. Given &c &c." Capt: Leftwich & Capt: Early's Companies from Bedford, after six weeks service, claiming a Discharge at the end of that Time, to be dated from the Time of their marching from their County, upon refusal, deserted. The pretext for their claim was a Promise from the County Lieutenant that they should not be compelled to serve longer than six weeks. As the Orderly Sergeants belonging to the different Companys, deserted with the men & carried off their Lists, it is impossible to make an accurate Return of their names or numbers. BEVERLY RANDOLPH L. C. C—" Buckingham Danl: Smith, County Lieut: reports the strength of the militia, as six Co. hundred and seventy three men between 18 and 50 years of age— Peytonsburg Dept: Q. Master Wm. McCraw informs Maj: Claiborne of the difficulty Pittsylvama Qf gG^[ng anv thing done in his department, because the Court Martials of the Counties threaten to make six-months soldiers of all men he engages. The citizens willing to work, but are deterred. Unless this be stopped, he cannot furnish the canteens so much wanted by the So. Army; the armorers will not be able to repair the damaged guns, nor can he have the horse-shoes made, now so much needed. H. BANKS TO Gov: NELSON OF VA. Beaufort, "As many people will apply to Gov. Nelson for Com'n for whale Boats **• G- to plunder negroes &c &c from So: Carolina, do inform his Excellency, that Major Burwell just escaped from a Prison ship at Chas. Town, had the mortification to find 14 of his negroes brot. in, stolen from his Estate. And as Gov: Burke will prosecute all such as have no Commissions, many will apply to Gov: Nelson for them, whereby they may plunder with Impunity"—-
Page 691
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 691 FORM of Descriptive List, of Recruits— 1781. FORM, of "Abstract of Issues of Clothing, stoppages, & deficiencies due, for the 1st Va. Regiment—for the year 1781." FORM, for "General Return of Arms and Ammunition of County 1781.—includes, "Public musquets" & "Private guns"—good & bad—Ammunition, Powder, Lead, Cartridges—Public Swords— Pistols—Flints—. This form does not limit the extent of the Return—"Should there be Return of halberts espontoons or indeed any other military weapons in the hands nition**™"' of our militia, it will be proper to mention them in proper columns—If in Counties there is a private magazine of ammunition in your County, it will be right to note it at the foot, or in a column, government having nothing further in view than to be possessed of a just knowledge of the real estate of their citizens." FORM—giving "State of Specifies from the 1st of to the 1st of for 1781. including "Number of Tithables"— Bushels of Wheat, Corn, Rye & Barley,—also Pounds of Hemp & Tobacco, collected, delivered & remaining on hand—Giving the highest price of wheat—and duly signed by the Commissioners. FORM, for "Return" of Militia for County, taken in THOS: C. WILLIAMS* TO FREDERICK RHINELANDER ESQR. MERCHANT NEW YORK. "Dear Sir, Refering you to my last of the 1st Inst: by Capt Ross, who I thought was going to the Northward, but last week received a letter dated in the Bay from him, which informed me that ho had taken throe prizes. two hours after I saw the Honorable Ralph Wormoley & Mr. Grimes from Rappahannock in pursuit of him, Gentlemen of the first private Characters in this Country and the most avowed notorious *Was doubtless written from Portsmouth when occupied by Genl: Leslie; and refers to the depredations of British Privateers committed by mistake or otherwise upon persons loyal to the English Government.
Page 692
692 CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 1781. friends to Government—and sorry and ashamed I was to here from those Gentlemen, that Rosses People had plundered them in a most wanton barberous manncr, of household furniture, plate, waring apparril and negroes, to the amount from Mr. Wormeley alone of £4000 sterling. to you the value will be little, to these gentlemen irreparable— As I know your principals must detest & disavow such proceedings, you will be doing an Act that Justice and Loyalty demands at your hands, by restoring all that the crew has not made away with, to the bearer Mr. Minitroe, who is sent by these Gentlemen, & General Leslie to get Satisfaction—if Capt ROSS had come here, I believe his life would have been in danger, the Predatory acts of the privateers which have often fallen on the best friends to Government; they stay at home expecting protection at least from us, and are the first to be plundered— and what makes it heinous in Ross he knew the characters of these Gentlemen—we have no late accounts from Lord Cornwallis— With all Respect I am D'r Sir, your very h'ble, ob't Servant. MICHAEL RYAN TO Gov: NELSON. "Sir, Fairfax Co. I had some expectation of geting the Fairfax Volunteers mounted at Camp, or by a General Order from your Excellency, which made me march with onc half of the Corps, indifferently equipt, leaving orders for the remaining party to follow with all possible speed— The present situation of the army seems to render unnecessary the taking of any hasty measures to equip volunteers for this part of the State. I therefore request your Excellency to lay before Council our intention of still considering ourselves as a corps of Horse, as some of Us have been at considerable expences and the Caps, Jacketts and belts are already provided. The Corps to be ready to turn out when called upon—and the horses we have already got being in Genl: given to us by the owners, to be returned untill called for. thirty two including offi- cers will be in my oppinion a sufficient number—I shall wait the Coun- cils determination and am, with the utmost Esteem and respect Sir, your Excellencies obt. Servant— Officers names and rank. lit: Col: Michael Ryan, Capt: Capt: Will'm Mason. Lieut: Capt: Saml: Earle — Cornet. Lieut: Joseph Ferguson Adjutant
Page 693
CALENDAR OF STATE PAPERS. 693 Petition of many citizens to the Executive, in behalf of Daniel Curl- 1781. ing, sentenced "to depart the Commonwealth, by Virtue of His Excel- Norfolk Co. lency's Proclamation respecting persons who have lately returned from the British Lines unauthorized by Law" &c— PETITION OF NUMEROUS CITIZENS, praying that John Dale, who has been drafted to serve as a private soldier eighteen months in the Conti- nental Army, and is perfectly willing to do his part to the country, may be retained in the duty to which ho has heretofore been assigned, viz as Armorer. For four years past his services in this capacity have been extremely Northum- valuable in the Counties of Richmond, Lancaster and Northumberland: oerland and they urge, therefore that he can thus be of more value to the Coun- try, than as a private soldier in the ranks— AN ACT, to revive and Amend the Act, entitled "An act for procuring a supply of provisions and other necessaries for the use of the Army— Authorizes the Executive to appoint a Commissioner, under Bond, to "Superintend the execution of this Act"—a deputy for each County, accountable to him, by proper returns with vouchers &c—to settle also with the Commissioner of the Specific Tax by quarterly returns &c— keep accurate accounts of all supplies furnished the Continental Service as by the State—His own and the pay of his Assistant to be fixed by the Governor & Council. All impressments made under this Act to be paid for at following rates, viz—for wheat sixty and two thirds dolls: pr: bushel—Indian Corn, twenty dolls: pr: bushel—peas thirty dolls: pr: bushel—Oats, fif- teen dolls: pr: bushel—pickled Beef eight dolls: pr: pound—bacon, twenty dolls: pr: pound—Salt Pork, twelve dolls: pr: pound—For Brandy Sixty dolls: pr: gallon.—Whiskey, forty dolls: pr: gall:—For Taffia, fifty dolls: & West India Rum eighty dolls: pr: gallon—For white biscuit, three hundred dolls: pr: hundred weight—Ship-bread two hun- dred dolls: pr: hundred weight—for fine flour, two hundred dolls: pr: hundred weight: for seconds or ship-stuff one hundred and fifty dolls: pr: hundred weight. Provides for redress against any supposed impositions or frauds on the part of agents or deputies, by allowing an appeal to the Commis- sioners of the Specific Tax in the several Counties— Provides further for the collection of Forage; not more than one sixth of the quantity actually in the possession of any citizen, to be seized: and to be paid for upon equitable principles.
Page 694
Blank page
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Index
Page 695
I N ID ED X . A. ADAMS, RICH*D, Justice of the Peace. Administers oath of office to the Hon. Sampson Mathews as member of Privy Coun- cil of State.................................................................................................. . 639 ALLEN, CAPT. JNO. To Col. Davies............. ------------------------------ ------------- -------------------------------------- 349, 389 AMERICAN TROOPS. Passed through Philadelphia.......................... ------------------ ---------------------------------- 388 ANDERSON, JR., DAVID. To the governor............................................. -------------------------------------------------- 514 ANDERSON, JAMES. To Col. Davies......................................................................................... 847, 625, 670 To Mr. A. Blair, giving return of negro slaves belonging “to the public”............... 485 ANDERSON, MAJOR R'D. To the governor.................................................. --------------------------------------- - - - - - - 357 ANDERSON, JR., RICH'D. To Col. Davies................................................................. -------------------------------- 412 ANDERSON, THOMAS, Dep. Com. of Provisions. To Col. Davies............................................................................ 362, 374, 513, 533, 566 ANDREWS, R. - To Col. R. H. Lee............................................................................................ 494 ANDREWS, ROBERT, Secretary to the Governor. To Governor Jefferson—Commission for settling the Pennsylvania and Virginia boundary line................................................................................................ 11 To Gov. Nelson...................................... 493 To Gov. Nelson; to General Weedon 494 To the governor...................................... 577 To Mr. Pierce.................................................................................................. 597 ANDREWS, REV. WM. AND REV. M.R. HARRISON. In custody and charged with treason................................................................... 561 ANTHONY, To Jonathan Denison—Tobacco worth from 95 to 1004: ; flour 12042; both scarce...... 127 ARBUCKLE, JAMES, AND OTHERS, Commissioners for the Collection of Taxes. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 97–100 ARCHER, E. To the governor.................................................................. --------- ------- “............ 807

Page 696
696 INDEX. ARMAND, COL, (Marquis De La Rouerie.) To governor of Virginia.................................................................................... 594 To the governor of Virginia—Extract of recruiting instructions for Col. Armand; copy of letter from the commander-in-chief 647 To ğ. Wm. Davies...................................... --- 649 To Gov. Harrison, of Virginia 663 ARMS. Thrown into the river at Westham recovered....................................................'... 339 ARMSTEAD, WM. - To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 488 To , complaining of certain imputations to him of negligence in dis- charge of his official duties............................................................................. 611 To Gov. Harrison in council --- 640 To the executive............................................................................................... 665 ARMY. No longer requiring extraordinary means for subsistence...................................... 579 In Virginia must i. large, but must be sustained by Virginia's recources, her flour, beef, hay, corn, &c......................................................................................... Suffering from want of wagons to carry supplies Suffering for flour and meal............................... On North river increasing daily ARTHUR, LT. JAMES. To the governor of Virginia.............................................................................. 627 BAIL BONDS. Of Rich'd Barr and others................................................................................. 626 Of Alex. Montgomery and others........................................................ ..... ........ 634 BAILEY, CAPT. J.N.O. Letter from..................................................................................................... 338 BAIRD, JNO. To the executive............................................................................................... 454 BAKER, JERMAN. To Honorable Mr. Jamison................................................................................ 368 BALFOUR, COL. Extract from letter of....................................................................................... 341 BALLARD, J.R., CAPT. J.N.O. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 365 BALLS. More than 2,000 fired at the Americans to-day...................................................... 518 BANISTER, COL. J. To Gov. Nelson BANKS, H. To Gov. Nelson BANKS, RICH. To the governor......................................................... --------------------------------------- 372 BARBOUR, COL. JAS. To the governor............................................................................................... 82 To Gov. Nelson..... ----------- 198 To Col. Davies.............................................. -------- ------------------------- ---------- ...,..., 864 º









Page 697
INDEX. - 697 Culpeper county - - 482 To the executive ... 576 BARBOUR, COL. THOS. To Col. Davies................... ---------------------------------------------------------------------- ******** 607 BARCLAY, JNO. To Gov. Nelson.......................................................................................”.” 861 BARRON, COMMODORE JAS. To the commanding officer at Williamsburg........................................................ 56 To Forty sail of the fleet weighed from Hampton Roads, having on board a number horses and troops................................................................... 272 BEALL, SAMUEL. To Gov. Nelson........................................................................................“ 231 BEARD, CAPT. Shall receive his orders as soon as possible....................................... .................... 350 BELSCHER, JR., JAMES. To Col. Davies........................... ..................................................................... 238 BENTLEY, T. To David Ross....................................... ----------------------------------------------------------- 238 To the governor .............................................................................................. 260 BIDDOLPH, LIEUT. South Carolina Dragoons. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 290 BIRD, GEO. - Collector of specific tax..................................................... -------------------------------- 29 BLACK, WILLIAM. To the governor................................................................................................ 250 BLAINE, EPH., Com. General of Purchases. To Col. Jno. Cropper, Accomac......................................................................... 516 To Gov. Nelson...................... ............................................................ ......... 566,606 BLAIR, JNO., NAT’NL BURWELL, JNO. DESIQUERA, J. MADISON, AND J. PRENTIS. To Gov. Nelson............................................................ ----------------------------------- 279 BLAIR, JNO. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 220 BLAND, THEOD. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 140 BLUNT, COL. BEN. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 407 To Brig. Gen'l Muhlenburg, reporting the strength of his force 413 To Gov. Nelson............................................................................... - 487 BOHANNAN, CAPT. A. - To Col. Davies................................................ To To Hon. Wm. Davies BONETTA. Refugees on board of............... -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 560 BOSWELL, COL. JNO. - To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 655. BOTT, COL. J.N.O. To Col. Davies...................................... ------- ---------------------------------------------------- 590



88
Page 698
698 INDEX. BOUSH, RO. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 640 BOUNE, J. - - To Col. Davies............................................................ .................................... 365 BOUNE, CAPT. T. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 667 BOUNE, CAPT. W. To Col. Davies.................................................... . ................................----------- 393 BOYCE, MAJOR W.M. To Gen'l Marquis De Lafayette, enclosing proceedings of court martial held for the trial of Dr. Archibald Campbell, charged with bringing into camp persons infected º with the small-pox......................................................................................... 412 BRADFORD, SAM'L H. To the governor............................................................................................. . 403 BRITISH FLEET. - Off the capes; 26 sail of the line, 10 frigates, and 5,000 troops................................ 572 BRITISH OFFICERS. 40 wrecked near Egg Harbor and perished........................................................... 627 BRITISH MERCHANTS AND TFADERS. Reply of, to Col. Tim Pickering........... ------------------------------------------------------------- 572 BRITISH PRISONERS. At York.....................................................................................................“ 616 About 6,000 left York this day........................................................................... 564 BRITISH TRANSPORTS. Carrying about 8,000 men appear in the bay......................................................... 283 BROKE GROUND. Evening of the 6th........................................................................................... 532 BROOKE, COL. J. H. To the governor................................................................................................ 19 BROOKING, COL. V. To the governor.…........................................................................................... 77, 343 To Gov. Jefferson at Charlottesville................................................................... 132 BRONSON, BENJ. AND HARWOOD BART. Bail bond of...................................................................................................... 551 BROWN, W. S., C. M. Stores. To Col. Davies......... ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 28 BROWN, W., Capt. in Col. Gibson's Reg't. To Col. G. Mutter............................................................................................. 655 BROWN, JOHN, C. General Provisions. To Gov. Nelson, Richmond.............................................................................. 248, 319 To Col. Davies......................................................................................... 281, 311, 384 BROWNE, COL. W.M. To Col. Wm. Davies............................. ------------------------------------------------------------ 336 BUCKLEY, JNO. To Col. Wm. Davies........................................................................................ 524 BURKE, GOV. THOMAS. To the county lieutenant of Brunswick county, Virginia....................................... 225 To Gov. Nelson, of Virginia........................................................226, 325, 333, 371, 899
Page 699
INDEX. 699 Keeps up weekly correspondence with Gov. Nelson; compliments the patriotism of Gov. Nelson................................................................................................. 333–34 Captured......................................................................................................... 479 BURTON, R., Q. M., &c. To Gov. Nelson, of Virginia. Battle of Eutaw Springs, &c.................................. 479 BURWELL, COL. LEWIS. To Gov. Nelson....................................................................................... To Archibald Blair To Col. Davies, in reply BUTLER, ED. To Col. Davies......................................... ------------------------------------------------------- 21,386 BYRD, MRS. M. - To Has lost 49 of her people, 3 fine horses, and 2 fine ferry boats. Wants a flag........... ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 312 CABEEN, JNO. To the governor................................................................................................ 139 CABELL, COL. JNO. To ---------------------------------------------.................................................. 645 CALANDER, CAPT. ELEAZER. To Gov. Nelson........................................................................................ 433,463, 512 CALL, MA.J. R'D To Col. Davies......................................................................................... 286,302, 331 To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 446 CALL, WM., Lieut. of Prince George Co. To the executive. Men needed to plant corn....................................................... 14 To the governor................................................................................................ 42 CALLAWAY, CAPT. JAS. To the governor. Want of men at home. Cornwallis........ 28 To the governor............................................................. ... 111 To Gov. Jefferson....................................................................................... ... 144 Sends to Col. Davies for $20,000 bounty money for five enlisted men 191 To Col. Davies......................... ....................................................................... 312 . CALLIS, COL. W. O. Transportment to Portsmouth 2 days ago, and returned to mouth of Elizabeth river last evening; landed all their troops, and will return to New York; Col. Curle and the Carter prisoners on board......................---------------------------------------------------- 1 CALVERT, CHRIS. To -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- 566 -CAMPBELL, COL. RICH'RD. To Gov. Jefferson. Great want of clothing......................................................... 8 CAMPBELL, COL. ARTHUR. To Gov. Jefferson....................................................................................... 11, 73, 143 To Col. Davies................................................................................................ 72, 559 CAMPBELL, WM., Aid de Camp to Gov. Jefferson. Desertions; enemy at Portsmouth; Nelson's dragoons........................................... 18 CAMPBELL, MA.J. W.M., Inspector of Militia Division. To Gov. Nelson................. ------------- --------------------------------- ------------- -------------------- 222



Page 700
700 - INDEX. CAMPBELL, ARCHIBALD, M. D. To Col. Davies.............................................................------------------------------------ 356 CARRE, ROBERT B. AND OTHERS. Paroles of..................-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 182 CARRINGTON, EDW'D, D. Q. M. Communication from, and from Rich'd Claiborne, relating to Q. M. department...... 157 CARRINGTON, COL. ED. To Col. Wm. Davies To Gov. Nelson.......................................................................---------------- CARRINGTON, COL. GEO. To Col. Davies.............................................................-------------------------- 230, 576, 577 Reports that Col. Spip with had marched with the militia of that county.................. 417 CARRINGTON, PAUL, PETER LYON, AND WM. FLEMING. Special commission to, from the executive, to meet in the town of Richmond to hear and determine all criminal measures which the general court could have heard and determined.......................................................................----------------------------- 639 CHAPMAN, JNO., JAMES ROBINSON, AND REUBEN GRIFFITHS. Petition of, for pardon...............................................................................-------- 676 CHASTILLIEU AND ROCHAMBEAU. At Mt. Vernon........................................................---------------------------------------- 453 CHEVALLIE, M. To Gov. Henry, of Virginia...................................................--------------------------- 365 CHRISTIAN, COL. W.M. To the governor of Virginia; Indian affairs; Col. Sevier goes against the Chicka- saws; loss of state credit................................................................................. 24 To the governor of Virginia........ -- -- ----------------------------------------- 199 To Gov. Nelson... ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 540 To Col. Davies..................... -------------------------------------------------- 349, 572 C1RCULAR. Issued urging upon county commissioners for collecting specific grain tax for 1780.... 397 From Thos. M. Kean, president of congress......................................................... 478 Sent by order to Gen. Lawson, Col. R. H. Lee, and Col. Barbour........................... 579 CLAIBORNE, MA.J. To the executive. 238,128 pounds required for supplies for the Southern army......... 3 CLAIBORNE, HERBERT. To Gov. Nelson, expressing his great regret at not being able to procure horses for the use of the French.................................................................................... 417 CLAIBORNE, MA.J. RICHARD. Baron Steuben orders saddles and accoutrements for 300 horse and a large Magazine of forage at Petersburg 3 Perilous state of the Continental quartermaster's department; resigns his office........ 10 The Continental quartermaster gets relief............................................................ 14 Enclosing extract of letter from M. Lafayette; failure to procure transportation; artillery for Gen. Greene; Gov. Jefferson's reply............................................... Impressed horses............... ..................................... - Wants of the Continental quartermaster department.... Wagon trains from Philadelphia............................... To the executive...................................................... To Governor Jefferson To Gov. Nelson................................. ........ - To the governor, enclosing letter from Mr. McCraw. To Gov. Harrison............................................................................................ 646 To Col. Davies............46, 70, 76, 130, 197, 217, 228, 271, 375, 382, 383, 387, 393, 397, 415,449, 475, 489, 495, 524, 525, 540, 596, 614, 622,643, 666









Page 701
INDEX. 701 Great difficulty of procuring grain, forage, &c................. 202 In regard to men who had deserted from the boats 438 In behalf of Mr. S. Walker, who had voluntarily given his wagon and team for the use of the army.....................................................................................“ 466 In regard to S. Walke............................................................................... .... 467 Condition of the sick and other prisoners at Aylett's and Hanover Courthouse 619 To Hon. David Jameson.............. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------------- 472 Enclosing letters complaining of the French agents who are purchasing all the flour and beef in the county for cash in specie......................................................... 487 To the Hon. J. Ambler and Samuel McDowell, members of the council. Order from.......................................................................................... To the Hon. Speaker of the House of Delegates.................................................. CLARKE, BENJ. To Col. Lewis Burwell (copy)................................... ....................................... 81 CLARK, B., AND CLARK, J. of Caroline Co. - Bailed.............................................. --------------------------------------------------------------- 119 CLARKE, GEN’L GEO. ROGERS. To Gen. Washington (copy).............................................................................. 108–9 To the governor of Virginia..................................................................... 116, 153, 294 Disappointed in raising men for his exploration; disputed boundary between Virginia and Pennsylvania, cause of failure............................................................. ..... 345–6 CLARKE, DANIEL. Petition of, to Gov. Nelson................................................................................ 180 CLAY, JAS. To the governor............................................................................................... 421 To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 493 CLAY, MARSTON. To the governor................................................................................................ 510 CLAYPOLE, JOHN. - Reasons for pardoning him................................................................................ 284 Petition of citizens for the pardon of.................................................................. 683 CLAYPOLE, THOS., AND OTHERS. Petition to the executive.................................................................................... 682 CLAYTON, COL. W.M. To Col. Davies.... --- .... 358 To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 413 CLEMENTS, THOS., Comm. P. Law. To Col. Davies.............................................................................................. 372, 454 CLINTON. Expected to land in North Carolina.......................................... -------------------------- 399 COCKBURN, MARTIN, AND RICHARD CHICESTER, Comm'rs of Specific Tax. Report of............................................................. -------------------------------------------- 128 To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 515 COLE, DR. WEKING. To Col. Wm. Davies at the Fork........................................................................ 138 COLSTON, RALEIGH. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 70 COMMISSIONER. To try persons accused of treason in Hampshire county.......................................... 177 CONSTABLE, W.M., Aid de Camp to Lafayette. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 122





Page 702
702 INDEX_ Cºx TRACT. Cºpy of betweet E. Cºwel ºf Ptiladelphia. James Madisºn. Jr. and others.------- T5 CONWAY. EDWIN. Tº the gºver-ºf------------------------------------------------------------------------- *** Cººp"EP. CAPT. LEONARD. To the exec-ºve of Virgizia– ----------- ~17 CºP:BI N. COL fºr FA.2. - Tº Gov. Jeffersºn. By Capt. Levin Walker 134 Tº G. º. Jeffer- - 1º To C-... Wr. Davies. 3.29. To Gºv. Neisºr. 511 CORNWALLIS. A* ºrt ºf his “arrer ºr--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- *7 Tº Cirºz seven sailors in a small bºat captured with dispatches to the latter in New York--------------- 595 COBRIPTION. - Of the Peºple- ------------------------------- 280 CRAWFORD. BELLAMY. Cerk. &c. To Gºv. Nelsºn--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 471 CBEW, ROBERT. To Col. Wm. Davies------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3.59 CEOGHAN. MAJOR WM To Col. Wm. Davies-.................. 345,627 CHOPPER. J.R. COL. J.N.O. To Cºl. Wm. Davies- - 358, 509, 595 To Gov. Nelson-...---------------------------- 259, 361 To the governor. 492 To ------------------------------------------------- 595 CROPPER AND AVERY, COLS., Eastern Shore. Ordered to have large quantities of corn and oats collected.....------------------------------- 454 CRUTCHFIELD, Fost. To Col. John Syme.............------------------------------- 501 CUBLING, DANIEL. Petition in behalf of; sentenced to depart the commonwealth-------------------------------- 693 CURRENCY. Depreciation 300 for 1................................................-------------------------------------- 280 CURTIS, JOHN (known as “Seaside John”), AND WILLIAM GARRISON. Court-martial to try...... ----- ..... 496 D DABNEY, COL CHAS. To Col. Wm. Davies--------------------------------------------- 129,292, 364, 368, 377, 540, 566. 620 DAVENPORT, ww. To Gen.' Weedon. Insubordination; capture of the state schooner “Patriot”; wateh- ing the enemy----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 19 DAVIES, COL. W.M. To the governor......14, 24, 28, 32–33 37, 45, 62,63, 67, 89, 165–59, 224, 251.263,289, 304, 328, 337, 549, 659, 665 To Gov. Nelson............................ 183, 398, 425,442, 465, 376, 483,491, 503, 528, 535, 539 To Col. Jos. Holmes........ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 140 To the lieutenant-governor............... ------------------------------------------------------218, 219
Page 703
To --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 257 To the governor; applies for aid in his office, giving reasons therefor....................... 278 To Hon. David Jamieson................................................................................... 319 Circular from, to the collectors of specific tax ... 336 To Hon. Mr. Jameson in council........................................................................ 355 To Hon. Mr. Jameson. Extracts from two letters from Col. Rd. H. Lee on subjects of great importance.............. ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 425 To Hon. Mr. Jameson, enclosing extract of a letter from Col. Holmes at Winchester, asking instructions as to disposition of prisoners of war taken by the French at ->" sea, &c......................................................................................................... 437 To Lt. Gov Jameson............................ --- --- ... 600 To Hon. D. Jameson in council --- --- --- 599 To Gov. Harrison...................... --- 644 DAVIS, PETER, Clºk Q. M. Dept. To Col. Davies................................................. ............................................... 626 DAY, BENJ. To Gov. Nelson...................................................................... :......................... 517 DEGRASSE, COUNT. Letter relating to............................................................................................. 85 Much in want of small meats and vegetables........................................................ 522 DECHOISY, DUKE. To Gov. Nelson................................ ------------------------------------------------------------- 526, 547 DEKIRWAN, M., a French Citizen. - To the executive............................................. ----------------------------------------.......... 547 DELIEURIEUX, M. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................... “............ 37 DEPARTMENT OF STATE. A plan of, by Col. M. Smith....................................... ....................................... 685 DEPONTIERE, Aid de Camp. To Baron Steuben 353 Enclosing letters to be forwarded to Col. Davies.... 666 DETARLE, M. To Gov. Nelson............................................................................................. 517, 565 DICK, MA.J. CHAS. - To the governor, by Capt. Minor; wants of the gun factory.................................. 18 To Gov. Nelson................................................................. .... 280 Sends to the executive for a supply of money................................................ .... 336 To Col. Davies..................................... -- 565, 576 To Mr. Jameson—in reply................................................................................. 440 DICK, MA.J. ALEX. To the governor, asking for pay, &c.................................................................... 26 To Gov. Nelson 305 To Col. Davies....................................................................................... 383, 645, 670 DIGGES, DUDLEY. To Gov. Harrison........................................................................................... 653, 680 DIXON, J. To the governor............................................................................................... 80 DONNALLY, COL. ANDREW. To the governor.............................................................................................. 128, 470 DORSIUS, JNO. - To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 304







Page 704
704 INDEX. DOWNIE, JAS., AND WILL'S! THOMPSON. To Gov. Jefferson 86 DREW, CAPT. T. H. To Col. Davies 482 DUDLEY, CAPT. HARRY. To Col. Davii'S 66, 61 DUVAL, MAJOR J. To Col. Holt Richardson 366 DURIE, THOMAS, Dep. Com. Prisoners. To Col. Davies 688 To Lieut. Gov. Jameson 698 To the governor 607 DYE, FAUNTLERY.. Statement of charges against, formerly inspector of tobacco in Richmond county and captain of militia, certified to as being true by Richard Henry Lee, Esq., and Rich- ard Parker, Esq 146 Convicted at a general court-murtial, and sentenced to be confined and imprisoned during the continuance of the war 170 DYER, 8. To Col. Davies 128, 292, 312, 644 E EARLY, JOEL, Lieutenant Commanding. To Gov. Nelson 489 EASTON, RICH'D. To Brig. Gen'l Morgan: 167 EDDINS, SAM'L, Captain of Artillery. To Gov. Nelson 221 EDMUNDS, CHAS. To Col. Davies 391 To Captain Young 392 EDMUNDS, COL. E. To the governor 331 EDMUNDS, COL. W. To the executive 418 To Col. Davies 480 ELLIOTT, GEO. To Col. Davies 72 ELLYSON, JOHN. Bail bond of. 138 ENEMY. Evacuate the outposts at Morris' Mill, Pigeon Quarter, &c 613 EBVIN, HENRY. To the governor 622 EUROPEAN POWERS. False impression as to feeling of. 664
Page 705
INDEX. 705 EVANS, JOHN, County Lieutenant. To Gov. Nelson............................................ ---------------------------------------------------- 625 EWELL, CAPT. THOS. W. To Col. Davies......................................................................................... 108, 125, 211 EXECUTIVE ORDER. To seize all the salt that can be procured, and all vessels that can transport provisions. 454 EXPENSE. Of sea and land forces in Virginia daily $10,000 in produce.................................... 551 E" FALLS OF OHIO. Troops at, have nothing to eat........................................................................... 3.18 FANNING, WM. To Gov. Nelson; application for passport for Mr. John Wickham........................... 277 FEBIGER, COL. CHRISTIAN. To Col. Wm. Davies................................... 193,261,297, 322, 580, 582,611, 635, 654, 680 To Gov. Nelson................................................ ............................................. 321, 602 To Col. Davies, enclosing statement of the officers at the station that they will resign their commissions rather than march in their condition..................................... 609 FISHER, COL. D. To Col. Davies......................................... --- 339, 369 To Col. Davies, &c.; how he was captured........................................................... 559 FITZGERALD, JOHN. Purchased encyclopedie for Mr. Jefferson............................................ ---------- ------ 2 FITZPATRICK, WM. Court-martial called.......................................................................................... 224 FLEMING, WM., Lieut.-Gov. To Col. Jas. Wood.......................................................................................... 144, 147 To Gov. Nelson...... --- ...502, 598 To Gov. Harrison 671 Commissioners appointed to settle the accounts in Western Virginia 672 FLOYD, JNO. To Col. Geo. Slaughter; investigation into conduct of officers................................ 17 To Gov. Jefferson; commissioners sent, &c.; division of Kentucky, &c.; cause of delay in commissioning proper officers, &c.; strength of the militia force; levy for Continental service to be postponed; inhabitants killed by the Indians by whole families; deplorable state of many families; condition of the garrison at the Falls of Ohio; confidence in Gen. G. R. Clarke; Maj. Slaughter in command at the Falls; men for Clarke's expedition................................................................. 47–9 To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 529 Fontain E, W. - To *---------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- 567 FORAGE. Exhausted in the country around Yorktown......................................................... 455 Scarce................................. ........................................................................... 524 FORM. Of descriptive list of recruits............................................................................. 691 FORSYTH, MAJR ROB'T. To Col. Davies...... -------------------- --- 68, 292, 642 To Gov. Harrison --- 658



Page 706
706 INDEX. Fow LER, WM. To Col. Davies.......................................-------------------------------------------------------- 286 FRENCH FLEET. 25 sail of the line and transports for 10,000 troops sailed from Cape Francois on the 6th or 7th of August for Havana....................................--------------------------------- 369 Consisting of 28 ships of the line, 6 frigates, and 3,000 land forces arrived in Chesa- peake bay on the 31st of August......................------------------------------------------------ 379 Getting ready to go out...............................------------------------------------------------------ 572 FRENCH TROOPS. Landing at Jamestown.........................................--------------------------------------------- 380 Passed through Philadelphia..................... ... 388 Under Viomeneil, at head of Elk, embark. ... 477 At surrender, particularly fine-looking............. --------------------- 567 Taking possession of every house in York............................................................ 623 G. GAMBLE, CAPT. R.O. To Col. Davies; cannot be more than one-fourth of officers sufficient to command their detachments.......................-------------------------------------------------------------------- 2 - To Col. Davies...............................................-------------------------------------------------- 8, 57 GARLAND, DAVID. - To Gov. Nelson....................................................-------------------------------------------- 240 GARNETT, HENRY. To Gov. Nelson.....................................---------------------------------------------------........ 528 GASKINS, COL. THOS. To the governor; pirating vessels; stealing negroes, &c......................................... 38 To Col. Wm. Davies................................................... ...326, 372 To the governor............ -------- --- 462 To — — .....................................................----------------------------------------- 602 GENERAL ASSEMBLY. Joint resolution to make remittances to delegates in congress................. ... 175 Joint resolution in relation to insurgents on western frontiers... ... 176 Joint resolution to appoint a secretary................................................................. 180 Resolution fixing 1st Monday in October as the day of meeting in the town of Rich- mond.................................................-------------------------------------------------......... 181 Resolution to remove all the troops of the convention of Saratoga........................... 670 GIBBS, LT. CHURCHILL. To the governor............................................................................ ----------- -------- - 77 GIBSON, COL. J.N.O., Commd’t at Fort Pitt. To Gov. Jefferson.............................................................................................. 131 Quits the service, and assigns his reasons. ........... 288 To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................. 458 GIBSON, COL. GEO. To Gov. Nelson........................................................................................... .... 283 GIRAULT, L., Commºd’r. Letter from, to —; giving account of success of the Spanish arms at Pen- sacola........................................................................................................... 338 GLOSTER. Enemy landed in; arms wanted for cavalry.......................................................... 289 GLOUCESTER TOWN. 700 of the enemy landed at.................................................................. .............. 299 GRAHAM, RICHARD. To Col. Davies......................................................................................... 214,479, 645





Page 707
INDEX. 707 GRAVES, RICH'D C. To Col. Davies................................................................ ................................ 288 GRAYSON, WILLIAM. To Gov. Jefferson of Virginia; relief for prisoners, and how to be delivered ; want of money and arms.......................................................... ............................. 30 To the governor of Virginia............................................................................ 129, 197 GREEN, COL. ABRA. To Col. Davies.................................................................................. ... ......... 461 GREEN, BERRYMAN, A. D. Q. Master. Circular to deputy quarter masters............................'............................................ 83 To Col. Davies............................................................... 104, 268, 302, 320, 366, 372, 373 GREENE, MA.J. GEN’L NATHANIEL. Autograph letter of, to Gov. Jefferson of Virginia...................."...-------------------------- 185 To Gov. Jefferson 191 To Col. Balfour (extract) 389 To Col. Wm. Davies.......................... .............................................................. 674 GREER, CAPT. HENRY. To Col. Wm. Davies......................................................................................... 321 GRIFFIN, COL. W.M. To Gov. Nelson, in Williamsburg....................................................................... 485 GUN FACTORY. Money wanted............................................................................... ................. 280 IEH HABERSHAM, JAS. To John Hamilton............................................................................................ 57 HAMILTON, MA.J. THOS. To the governor; prisoners allowed the liberty of the town; Capt. Carre and one Davis in irons............................................................................. ------------------- 38 To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 296 HAMILTON, CAPT. To *----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 252 HANCOCK, GEORGE, late of South Carolina. To the executive of Virginia.............................................................................. 281 HANNAH, WM. To Gov. Nelson.............................................................................................. 480, 546 HARMANSON, JOHN, AND WM. SCOTT, Comm'rs of Provision Law. To Col. Davies............................................................................................... 239, 348 HARRIS, JNO., THOMAS, JNO., WILLIAMS, THOS., AND BATTY, GEO. Depositions taken.......................................................................................… 82 HARRISON, JR., BEN.J., Continental Paymaster of Virginia. To the governor...............................................................................…. 284 HARRISON, WILL. To the governor.................................................................................................... 140 HAY, WM. To Col. Davies; want of lead............................................................................. 28 To the governor........................................................... ...61, 62,466, 674 To Col. Davies......................................................................................... 466, 536, 599

Page 708
608 INDEX. HAY, JNO. To Robert Williams, state's attorney for Pittsylvania county................................. 181 HAYNIE, BRIDGER. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 614 HAYES, JAMES. To Hon. David Jameson.................................................................................... 536 To the governor............................................................................................. 319, 664 HENDERSON, B. E., AND OTHERS. To Gov. Nelson.................................................................................…......... 332. HENDRICKS, JAS. To Gov. Jefferson................................................................................... ......... To the Executive......... To John Pierce, Esq................................... To James McAlister, of Berkeley county. To Gov. Nelson.... To Col. Davies.................................................................... HETH, COL. W.M. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 384 HICKMAN, COL. J.N.O. To Chas. Russell, D. Q. M. 363 To Col. Davies................... ----------- 615 HOBSON, N., Co. Lieut., and others. To Col. Wm. Davies, in reply to his circular-letter of the 15th.............................. 245 Hog, PETER. To Gov. Nelson............................................................................................. 284, 587 HOLLAND, CAPT. W. Accused of treasonable designs, &c............................................ ------------------------- 183 HOLMER, MA.J. CHRISTIAN. To Gov. Nelson........................................................................... .................... 211 HOLMES, COL. JOSEPH. To the governor; guards furnished; demands upon the county............................... 87–8 To Col. Davies; regretting his ignorance of the fact that prisoners taken by the French fleet and delivered over by them were to be “applied for our benefit”....... 898 To Gov. Nelson.......................................….............….................................... To Col. Davies.......... ------ -------- -- To Gov. Harrison To Col. Davies—in reply HOLT, WM. To Gov. Nelson—in reply... 428 From to............. 436 Memorial of, to the executive 681 HOOD AND DEBARRAS, Admirals. Expected to meet at sea........................................... ------------------------------------------ 388 HOOD'S FORTRESS. Important to finish it........................................................................................ 363 HOSTILITIES. Ceased on the 17th, and garrison marched out on the 19th...................................... 558 HUNTER, JAMES. To Gov. Jefferson, at Charlottesville --- To Col. 9. Towles............................................................................................. 618









Page 709
INDEX. 709 HUNTINGTON, SAM'L, Prest of Congress. - To Gov. Jefferson, of Virginia; expected invasion of Maryland, Virginia, &c........: 21 Enclosing act of congress in º, Col. Davies' appointment as commissioner of war of Virginia, &c................... --- ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ----------------- 53 To the governor of Virginia. ... 187 To Gov. Jefferson.......................................................................................... 139, 144 HYRNE, MA.J. EDM'D MARS'BD. To Col. Wm. Davies......................................................................................... 105 INNES, COL. JAMES. To Gov. Jefferson...................................................................................... 52–3, 65, 69 To the governor 55, 59, 60, 71 To Gov. Nelson...................................................... 243, 267,486 To Sir Jno. Peyton, Bart., at Camp Whiting's mills............................................. 296 IRWIN, BRIG. GEN"L. - Assigned to the command of Fort Pitt................................................................ 485 JAIL, PUBLIC. Report of, by Robert Boyd and others 659 Petition of sundry persons confined therein accused of disaffection to the state......... 684 JAMES, MICHAEL. To Bev. Randolph, Esq., at Richmond........................................... * - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----- 173 JAMES, RICHARD. To Col. Davies........... -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 95 JAMESON, LT. GOV. DAVID. . To Gov. Nelson.............................................................. 424, 443, 448, 496, 470, 522, 578 JARNES, COL. R.D. To Col. Davies at Charlottesville........................................................................ 191 JOEL, B. ED. To the governor................................................................................................ To Col. Wm. Nelson JONES, CA.D., Aid de Camp. . To Major Claiborne (copy)................................................................................ 370 To Gov. Nelson of Virginia; Marquis St. Simon cannot march for want of commis- sary stores.................................................................................................... 400 JONES, CAPT. CHURCHILL. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 634 JONES, JOS., AND OTHERS. To the governor................................................................................................ 331 To Gov. Nelson........................................................................... 245, 388, 418, 459, 488 JONES, COL. JNO. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 261 To the governor............................................................................................... 570 JONES, CAPT. SAM'L. To Capt. H. Young; misconduct of one Moody, late in service of the state, &c........ 181 To Col. Davies; in regard to stores carried away by plunderers............... .... 214 To Col. Davies







Page 710
710 INDEX. To Capt. H. Young, Q. M. at Richmond............................................................. 214 To David Jameson............................................................................................ 572 JORDAN, BEN.J., Com. Mil. Stores. To — — ............................................................................................ 320, 397 To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 348 JOYNES, CAPT. LEWIN. To Col. Wm. Davies....................................................................................... 368,411 KEAN, THOS. M. Circular from, enclosing to the executive of Virginia resolutions of congress requiring all French seamen employed in the service of the states, or any citizen thereof, to be delivered up at once to the Count DeBarras, or any person appointed by him to receive the same............................................................................................ 217 To the governor of Virginia.... ............ 252 To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 532 KEARNES, JNO. To Gov. Nelson, on behalf of Rev. Mr. Andrews................................................. 589 KELLY, GEORGE. To Gov. Nelson............................................................ ................................... 546 KELLY, THADY. To Col. Innes, by express.................................................................................. 54 KENNER, COL. WINDER. Receipt for rum impressed for state..................................................................... 417 KEY, JOHN. To Col. Davies, in regard to his appointment as collector of strays.......................... 350 KIRKPATRICK, A. To Col. Wm. Davies........................................................................................ 623 L LAFAYETTE. About two miles below Richmond........... ........................................................... 283 Represented to have crossed over at Ruffin's Ferry and marching to New Kent Courthouse; a ruse to deceive the enemy.......................................................... 296 LANGBORN, WM, Aid de Camp to M. De Lafayette. - To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 92 To Major Richard Claiborne (extract) 157 LATOUCHE, CAPT. Declaration of, (original in French)—translation—in regard to seizure of cargo of his vessel by Col. Kenner, of Northumberland county....................................... 440 LAWSON, BRIG. GEN'L RO. - To Gov. Jefferson.................................. ------------------------------------------------------------- 79, 91 To the governor.................................... -------------------------------------------- 100 To Gov. Nelson... 252, 505 To Hon. Wm. Davies ... 344 To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 370 LEE, COL. H. To Col. Wm. Davies......................................................................................... 395 To Gov. Jefferson; capture of a British privateer and her men; their depredations on the way; steps taken to thwart their designs; Mount Vernon and Gunston Hall threatened.................................................................................................... 21–22





Page 711
INDEX. 711 In regard to treason of a slave........................................................................... 91 To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 267 To Col. Davies, enclosing copy of a communication to him from Gen'l Washington. 451 LEE, GOV. THOS. S., &c. To Gov. Jefferson of Virginia............................................................................ . 75 To Gov. Nelson of Virginia............................................................................. 403, 477 LEATHER. All fit for cavalry boots destroyed by the enemy................................................... 615 LEFTWITCH AND EARLY. Their companies from Bedford, after six weeks service, claim a discharge................. 690 LEGARE, THOMAS. Asks aid, &c.......................................................................... -------------------------- 285 LEMAIRE, COL. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 93 LEWIS, A. To Col. Arthur Campbell, Washington county; ranging in Powell's Valley, &c...... 34 LEWIS, THOMAS. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 591 LEWIS, CAPT. W.M. To Capt. James Maxwell at Richmond................................................................ 113 LIGHTFOOT, JNO. To Col. Davies............................................................................................... 223, 366 LINCOLN, B. To the county lieutenant of Frederick, Virginia................................................... 653 LIND, CAPT. ARCH. To Col. Davies..................................................................................................... 182 LINDSAY, LIEUT. COL R. To Gov. Jefferson To Col. Davies............. To Gov. Nelson To Col. Davies, reporting list of six months' men condemned by court-martial to serve that length of time............................................................... ........................ 896 LIVINGSTON, M. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 521 LOAN FROM ABROAD. a- Little hope of................................................ “.........................' .............. 554 LOCKHART, PAT. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 604 LoGAN, CoL. BENJ. To Gov. Nelson....................................................................................... --------- 665 LOMAX, THOS. To Gov. Harrison........................................... ------- ---------------------------- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 659 LUTTERLOW, COL. H. E. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 585 LYLE, SAM’L. To Col. Davies............................................................................................... 197, 586 LYNE, COL. W.M. To Col. Davies...................... ---------------------- ----------------------------------- ------------------ 645

Page 712
712 INDEX. LYON, REV. JOHN. Trial of, by court-martial ........................ . ................ 306 Conviclod of giving aid to the enemy ................ 306-6 Petition for mitigation of his sentence ................ 344-6 Petition for remission of the sentence of the court-martial lately held for his trial.... 360 Petitions the governor to be allowed to return to his homo ................ 686 McALISTER, JAMES. To Col. Hendricks ................ 617 McCALL, MAJ'R RICH'D, 3rd Regt L. Dragoons. To Col. Davies ................ 368, 366 McCRAW, WM., Dep. Q. M. To Gov. Nelson ................ 301 To Col. Davies ................ 311, 398, 482 Complains of John Buckley, com'r of prov. for Pittsylvania, as being a "clog to public business "................ 670 Gives information of irregular conduct of Capt. Thos. Smith and others .................. 697 To Maj. Claiborne ................ 690 McDOWELL, SAM?L. To Gov. Jefferson ................ 66 MCGWIRE, EDWD, AND DAVID KENNEDY. To Gov. Nelson ................ 626 McHENRY, JAMES. To Col. Davies ................ 368 McINTOSH, MRS. SARAH. To Gov. Jefferson ................ 69 McKENNY & RICHARD. To Mr. J. Denison, merch't E. Shore ................ 127 McROBERTS, REV. ARCHIBALD. To Col. Davies ................ 308 MADISON, JR., JAMES, AND THEOD. BLAND. To Gov. Jefferson; effect of naval reverse off Chesapeake bay, &c! ......................... 8 To Gov. Jefferson ................ 60-2, 70-1, 80, 148 To Gov. Nelson ................ 348, 633, 687, 614 To the governor; complaining of the failure of Mr. Ross to supply the means neces- sary to their support ................ 639 MAGILL, MAJ. CHAS. To Col. Davis, at Charlottesville ................ 126 MAGILL, JNO. To Alex. White, Dolphin Drew, and Philip Pendleton, Esq ....................... . .......... 184 To Gov. Nelson ................ 216 MARSHALL, T. To Hon. David Jameson, Esq., Lt.-Governor ................ 649 MARTIN, LT.-GOV. OF N. C. Extract of letter from, to Gov. Nelson ................ 490 To Gov. Nelson ................ 616 MARTIN, COL. JOS. To Col. Arthur Campbell, of Washington county ................ 64, 143 MARTIN, CAPT. THOS., 6th Va. Reg't. To Col. Davies ......................... ................ 212
Page 713
INDEX. 713 MARYLAND. Called on by Gov. Nelson to aid in feeding the troops and fleet............................... 379–80 - Exerts herself to provide for the fleet and army.................................................... 403 MASON, G. To Geo. Mason, Jun'r, Esq., (in France)............................................................. 141 MATHEWS, SAMPSON. Certificate from................................................................................................ 173 To Thos. Nelson, Esq., governor; in regard to trial of insurgents in Augusta and Rockingham................................................................................................ 207 To the governor... --- --- -- 388 To Gov. Nelson 494 MATHEWS, THOS. To Gov. Nelson 239, 353 Force surprised by Tarleton 353 MAXWELL, CAPT. JAS. To the governor; disposition of the state's armed vessels To the governor........................................................... To Gov. Nelson............................................................... ................................. MEMORANDUM. Of articles to be furnished by the deputy quartermaster for the state of Wa............. 106 MEMORI.A.L. Of Jean Wancheret (French), representative of Godfrey Linitot............................. 464 From citizens of Cumberland county to Col. Febiger, commandant at the Barracks near Cumberland Old C. H................... ---------------------------------------------------------- 604 Of the officers of the Va. line to November session of assembly, 1781................ ------ 628 MEN. - Cannot be enlisted for the army............................... ------------------------------------------ 500 MERCER, JAS. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 89–40 MERCER, JNO. G. - Offers to raise a body of gentlemen for service...................................................... 286 MILITIA. Returns of, forwarded by Ben. Blount, county lieut............................................... 107 Return of the, of Spotsylvania county, made by Bev. Y. Winslow, county lieut....... 138 MILLER, JAS. - To “Mr. Andrew Crawford, merch’t, Leeds”...................................................... 106 MILLS, JAMES. - To Archibald Ritchie, at Tappah'n'k.................................................................. 176 MINQ, WM. To Mr. Frank Willis, Jr................................... ------------------------------------------------ 227. MITCHELL, MA.J. N. To Gov. Nelson...................................................... ------------------------------------------ 231 MITCHELL, ROBERT. To Gov. Jefferson; excitement upon the approach of the enemy's fleet; the Pennsyl- vania line; embarkation at New York............................................................. 33 MITCHELL, REUBEN. To the governor.................................................................... --------------------------- 101 MON BOS AND LUTIE, M. M. To Gov. Palmer........................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ------------------------------------------ --------- 545



90
Page 714
714 INDEX. MOODY, PHILIP. To Arch. Blair, accounting for the “public negroes,” of whom bought, &c.............. 641 MONEY. None of the several states to sustain the war in Virginia......................................... 357 MONTGOMERY, COL. JOHN. To the governor of Virginia.................................................................... 313 To Gov. Nelson, of Virginia.............................................................................. 315 MORGAN, GEN’L. Called into service, &c..............................................----------------------------------------- 154 To the Hon. Speaker of the House of Delegates.................................................... 162 To the governor................................................................................---------------- 215 To Gov. Nelson at Richmond............................................................................. 242 To Gov. Nelson by Col. Nelson. ... 473 To Gov. Harrison..................................................................................... ...... 646 MORRIS, COL. RICH'D T. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 297 MORRIS, BOBT. To Governor Jefferson....................................................................................... 153 To the governor of Virginia......... 201, 221, 316, 319, 351,667 Necessity of removing false impressions; candor should always govern him............ 553 To Gov. Nelson......................................................................................... ... 454 To Gov. Nelson (marked private)...................... ...... --- .... 550 To David Ross, com'r of trade for Virginia MORTARS, &c. MOSBY, LITT. To the governor To MOSELEY, JR., E. H. To the governor................................................................................................ 590 MOSS, JOHN. Offers his services as agent of the state to procure articles in Baltimore or Philadel- phia for the troops...................................... .................................................. 326 MURRAY, DANIEL. Memorial of, to the Virginia delegates in congress praying for relief................................ 675 MUTER, COL. GEORGE. To Col. Davies................................................................................................ 87, 339 To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 481 .NASH, COL. JOHN. To Col. Davies............................................................................................... 454, 553 NEGRO SLAVES. List of, brought into Halifax county by Wm. Hawkins, of North Carolina.............. 279 NELSON, GOV. To Marquis De Lafayette................................................................................ 188, 441 Assigns reasons for taking command of the militia at Yorktown............................. 391 Calls on Isle of Wight for vinegar and vegetables required for the armament lately arrived......................................................................................................... 379 Sick, at . Oftley Ho.”................................... ------------------------------------- 577 To Col. Josiah Parker.................. To the Virginia delegates in congress................................................ ...255, 527 ... 256 To Gen” Washington....................................................................................... 258











Page 715
INDEX. 715 To his Excellency Thomas M. Kean, president of congress.................................... 263 To Major Claiborne, quartermaster general.......................................................... 264 To Col. Jas. Innes............................................... -------------------- 268, 428 To the treasurer........................... ------------------ ----------------------------- 269 To the aud’rs of public accounts.... ------------------------------------------------ 269 To Col. Wm. Davies.....................----- 274, 433,446, 462 Circular from, to the county lieutenants............................................................... To county lieutenant of Accomack county........................................................... 282 To Col. Sir John Peyton, bar..........................................................................282, 526 To Commodore Barron................................................................................... 282, 491 To Brig. Gen” Stevens......................................................... --------------------- 283 To his excellency the governor of Maryland....................... --------------------- 283 To Captain Warley..................................................... --------------------- 337 To Capt. Pierce, Smithfield........... ---------------------- --------------------- 379 To John Brown, Esq., com. gen’l... ... 379 To Gov. Lee of Maryland............................................................................... 379, 562 To the Count DeGrasse, commanding French fleet, &c..... 80, 499, 523, 525 To Mr. Pierce.......................................................... -- 434, 472,500 To president of congress.................................................................................... 380 To }. Cornwallis............................................. ..381, 455, 490, 560, 561 To Gov. Burke of North Carolina.............................................................. 381,412,422 To Thos. Newton, Jr., Esq....................................................................... 387, 500, 522 To Gen'l Green..................................... ------------------------------------------------ 390 To the absent members of the council. ... 391 To Robert Morris..................... ... 391 To David Ross......... --- ------------------------------------- 416 To Col. Davies.................................... --- ------------------------------------------- 418, 484 To Col. Blunt.................................................................................................. 418 To Col. A. Thornton, Jr., Caroline county........................................................... To Capt. Callender...................................... To Col. Wells To Major Boyce.......................................... To Hon’ble David To Col. Taylor... To Col. Lewis.......................... To Mr. Pierce, comm'y general To the county lieutenants of Fairfax, Prince William, Stafford, Spotsylvania, Caro- line, Hanover, and New Kent counties............................... ..... ------------------------ 423 To Gen'l Lawson................................... -- --------------------- To Ralph Wormley, Jr................................................... ----------- To Col. James Hendricks......................................................................... To John Syme, Esq....................... To Col. Kenner.......... To Mr. Charles Lewis.......................................................... To To William Ronald, Esq., Powhatan..................................... To Brig. Gen'l Weedon........................................................ To Col. Barbour.......................................................................... To Capt. John Pierce (written by G. Nicholas)................................ To Charles Carter, Esq., Mann Page, and James Tutt, Esq’rs......... To Col. Jno. S. Wells.......................................................... To Buller Claiborne, Esq................................................ To Col. Rºd Morris........................................................................... To James Maury, Esq., agent of the flag vessels bound to Charlestown.... To Jacob Wray, Esq......................................................................... To M. Eeſtarle, intendent of the French army................. To Mr. Livingston......................................... --- --- To Hon. G. Webb......... ................................................................................. To the delegates in congress; congratulation on the reduction of York and Gloucester, and the capture of the whole British army 558 To the commissary at Fredericksburg..................................... - 564 NELSON, MA.J. J., Virginia L. Dragoons. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 118 NELSON, MA.J. W.M. - To Col. Davies................................................. ............................................... 184 To the governor. 289 His corps not paid for 14 months........................................ 290















































Page 716
716 - INDEX. NELSON, GEN'L. To Hon. David Jameson.................................................................................... 513 To comm’rs of Accomac and Northampton counties. ............................................ 523 NELSON, NATHANIEL. To Hon. David Jameson.................................................................................... 634 NELSON, JR., THOS. To Captain Jno. Randolph, &c.; form of impressment and reasons therefor, given to cavalry officers.................................................*...------------------------------------- 689 NEWTON, JR., THOS. To the governor............................................................................................... 242 To Gov. Nelson; enclosing letter from Amos Weeks............................................. 448 To Gov. Nelson....................................................... ..450, 529, 542, 547, 575, 577, 592 To Col. Davies........................ ...................................................-------------- 553, 570, 591 NICHOLAS, COL. GEO., Aid de Camp. To Gov. Nelson.............................................................................................. 420, 421 To Gov. Harrison 640 NICHOLSON, GEORGE. Letter from, by order of David Ross, (comm'r of arms for state of Va.,) to Brig. Gen', Dan'l Morgan....................................................................................... 211 NORTH CAROLINA. - - Called on to aid in provisioning the army............................................................ 422 NORTH, GEORGE, B. Q. M. To Gen'l Wayne...................................................... ---------------------------------------- 242 NORTH, W., Aid de Camp to Baron Steuben. To the conductor of the wagon train.................................................................... 113 O'BANNON, CAPT. J.N.O. To the executive............................................................... -------------------- ------------ 29 OCCOQUON FORD. To be repaired for the passage of the army.......................................................... 453 OPIE, LINDSEY AND JAMES BALL. To the governor; loss of property by the enemy................................................... 31 OUSBY, THOS., Lt. and Adjt. So. Car. Cont. Arty. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 394 PAGE, CARTER. To Col. Meade, 2nd state legion......................................................... ----------------- 592 PAGE, JOHN. To Gov. Jefferson; distressed state of the people of Gloucester county..................... 37 To Gov. Nelson, at Richmond; retreat from Gloucester Ct. House; enemy landed about 700 men at Gloucester town.................................................................... 299 To Gov. Nelson; º: of Gloucester in danger of starvation if deprived of their cattle and grain to feed the army..................................................................... 408 PAGE, MANN. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 93 To Gov. Nelson.............. 346 To Col. Davies.................... -------- 350 To , in reply.................................................................................. 550



Page 717
PAPER MONEY. Ceased to be currency...................................... ................................................ 501 PARK, JONATHAN. To Col. Davies; all the leather fit for cavalry boots destroyed by the enemy............. 615 PARKER, GEORGE, AND OTHERS. To Gov. Nelson............................................................................................... 344 PARKER, J., Act'g Col. Commºd'g. - To the hon. speaker of the assembly.................................................................... 150 To Gov. Nelson................................. To Col. Wm. Davies..... --- -- To Hon. Mr. Jameson....................................................................................... PARKER, CAPT. THOS. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 616 PARRISH, JOLLY. To Col. Davies........--------------------- ... ------------------------------------------------------------------ 366 PASTON, COL. ELIAS. To the county lieutenant of Frederick, per express........... ..................................... 113 PATILLO, J., A. Com. of Issues. - To Col. Davies; characteristic letter from an officer for clothing, &c....................... 203 .PATTESON, CAPT. SAM'L. To Col. Davies......................... .................................................................. 107, 125–6 PAYNE, BEN.J., a Mulatto Slave. Required to serve as a substitute in the army........................................................ 686 “PEGGY,” SLOOP. Permit to proceed with flag of truce to the Rappahannock, having on board negroes and other property of Mr. Wormley and other gentlemen................................... 403 BENN, ABRAHAM, Co. Lieut. To Hon. Wm. Fleming, Staunton....................................................................... 173 PEOPLE. Must rely on themselves...................................................... ............................. 554 PETITION. Of certain officers and inhabitants to the governor of Virginia (translation)............ 192 Of numerous citizens, militia late in the expedition to Genºl Green's army, praying the executive of Virginia to be allowed this term of service as a “tour of duty,” notwithstanding they had returned to their homes before their time had expired.... 198 Of inhabitants of Lunenburg county......................................... ........................ 323 Of sundry persons residing on Rappahannock river to the governor of Virginia and the council of said state.................................................................................. 404 From sundry inhabitants of Greenbrier county to the governor and council. 468 Of inhabitants of Amelia county.................... . 684 Of Jacob Brake and others for pardon..................... ----------- 686 Of citizens that John Dale be retained as armorer 693 PEYTON, FRANCIS, County Lieutenant. To Hon. Wm. Davies....................................................................................... 429 PEYTON, J. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 84 To Col. Davies....................... 53–4, 82, 119, 204, 309, 336,432, 509, 547, 612, 617, 624, 652 To Gen'l Weedon, per Major Joel.............................................................. ...... 174 From R. A. Sec'y by order of the governor 428 To — — ........... ........................................................................ 518 To Gov. Nelson, enclosing letter from Van Bibber of Baltimore 625 To the Speaker of the House of Delegates........................................................ 656.





Page 718
718 INDEX. PHILLIPS," BRIG. GEN'L. To Major Gen'l Phillips, commanding at Portsmouth, requesting that the ship with American prisoners, about to sail for New York, may be detained a few days, he expecting authority for their exchange................................................ ------------- 6 PHILIPS, MAJOR GEN. W. To Brig. Gen. Weedon, by Sam’l H. Radford, aid de camp; policy of the British eneral as to prisoners; Mr. Jefferson's letter and the resolutions of the House of legates commented on................................................................................. 15–16 PICKERING, W., Quartermaster General. To Major Rºd Claiborne................................... --------------------- :--------------------------- 194 PICKERING, COL. TIM. To Major Rºd Claiborne.......................................................................... ---------- 296 To Gov. Nelson Extract of a letter from, &c PIELEE, GILBERT. Receipt of, to Col. John Crappee for materials purchased for the “Diligence,” “Gal- ley "............................................................................................................ 155 PIERCE, JNO. To the executive............................................................................................... 332 To Gov. Nelson.... --- --- 420, 445, 457, 520, 542 To the governor....................................................................................... 421, 528, 573 To the commissioners of the several counties for collecting provisions, &c 424, 574 To Col. Davies..................................................................................... ...478, 662 : To the governor; complaints against the French, who are procuring all the provi- sions by paying cash in specie........... .............................................................. 496 To Hon. David Jameson........... ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 662 PIERCE, THOS. To Gov. Nelson.................. ............................................................................. 410 PITT, THOS. To Maj. Claiborne, Dep. Q. M........................................................ .................. 429 POLLOCK, THOS. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 488 POLLOCK, OLIVER, To Gov. Nelson ; expressing his surprise and mortification, &c............................... 570 POPE, SURGEON MATH. To the governor................................ To Gov. Jefferson, at Charlottesville... To Hon. Benj. Harrison, at Staunton. To Col. Davies................................................................... ........................... PORTER, JR., W., Com. Mil. Stores. To Col. Davies.................................................................................................... PORTERFIELD, CAPT. ROB'T. - To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ POSEY, MA.J. THOS. To Col. Davies......................................................... PRENTIS, J. To Gov. Jefferson; resigns his seat in the council To Gov. Nelson.............................................................................................. PRESTON, COL. W.M. To Gov. Jefferson; difficulty of raising men, &c................................................... 25 *For Phillips, Brig. Gen', read “WEEDON,” BRIG. GEN’L.



Page 719
INDEX. 719 To Gov. Jefferson; people coming into the county.; want of powder and flints; fears in regard to raising the men, on account of disaffection, &c.; exposed frontier; steps taken by him to defend the country; joins Gen. Pickens; reverses and deser- tion of his men; did as well as any that went from over the mountains; lead mines; necessity of protecting them................... ---------------------- 36 To Col. Wm. Davies... 255, 266 To Gov. Nelson.............................................................................................. 264, 501 PRICE, WM. To Col. Davies.................................................... ............................................ 127 PRICE, CAPT. BROWNE, C. Mil. Stores. To Major J. Pryor To Col. Davies........ 235 QUARTERMASTER DEPT. “Plan” of arrangement proposed by Capt. Young............................................... 686 PRICE, JAMES. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 574 PRISONERS. Arrived at Winchester........................................................................-------------- 579 Captured at York, roving at large in the county of Hanover... ... 580 350 more, sick, march from Gloucester................................................................ 598 PROCLAMATION. By his Excellency Thomas Nelson, Jr., Esq., governor of the commonwealth of Vir- ginia; embargo against exportation of provisions, &c....................................... 395, 551 PROVISIONS. Embargo laid on.............................................................................................. 396 Coming down the river stopped at Frazier's and Ruffin's ferries................... ... 491 An act amending an act, &c., for procuring a supply of, for the army 693 PRYOR, MAJOR JOHN. To Col. Davies; want of ammunition................................................................. 16 To Col. Davies.........34, 121, 156,157,162, 192, 195, 197, 203, 220, 240, 307, 325, 849, 351, 357, 364, 370, 375, 376, 384, 390, 409, 410, 414, 447, 487,498, 507, 517, 548, 550, 575, 580, 590, 591, 620, 627, 651, 667, 668 To Gov. Nelson; urgent request for funds to meet expenses of department of the South, &c..................................................................................................... 204 To Gov. Nelson - ....843, 514 RAGSDALE, CAPT. D. To Gov. Nelson...................................... ......................................................... 290 To Col. Davies............ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 295, 307, 348 RATIONS. - Of Indian corn and corn blades for French army horses; 3,000 required daily......... 517 RAVAGES. - By the enemy's ships......................................................................................... 43 READ, CAPT. EDMUND. To the governor; depredations of the enemy........................................................ 18 To the governor................................................................................................ 72 To Gov. Jefferson; enemy's depredations in Maryland; strength of the enemy's forces..... ...... --------------------------- --- To Col. Davies...............................................................................................







Page 720
720 INDEX. P:EAD. COL THºyº. To the zºverror: ar:*:::: ºf the re-ria. &c. ----- 17 Great - arºy ºf ara--, *...tteere. &c...... --- 12–13 *** *****-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 76 P.EAD. THOS. AND OTHERS. Cºurt-martial; instruction to Cº. Read ...... 387 REID, JøS., Pre-t ºf Perra- Tº ‘’”. **n of Vizzºnia------------------------------------------------------------------ 88, 95 P.E.II). CAPT. NATH. To Cº. — —---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 93 To Cº. Davies…------------------------------..........................….---------------.310,344, 657 REPUGEES. On board the “Bonetta". 550 A list of, confined for treason against the state 625 RIED, ANDREW, Clerk. Certifies to destruction of books of commissioners of land tax by rats.--------------------- 50 P.E.80LUTIONS. Advising the executive to issue warrant to the “Hon" Major Gen". M. De Lafay- ette.” authorizing him to impress such horses as he may need fºr the use of the army in the counties cºntiguous to the march of the enemy...........................------ 128 Of House of Delegates agreed to by Senate June 13th: calling on commercial agent to purchase arm-, &c., as are needed - 155 Passed de-iring the executive to purchase for Gen'ſ Stephens an siegant gelding to replace the one lost by him in the battle of Guilford Courthouse, also a set of furni- ture.. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 155 REVENUE. Necessary to provide it; the states must act............................................------------- 454 REYNOLDS, WM. To Gov. Nelson at Richmond.........................................................-------------------- 601 HICE, GEORGE, Quartermaster. To Gov. Jefferson; feverish state of the public mind in Albemarle county; trouble anticipated in collecting the taxes................................------------------------------------ 11–12 To Col. Davies....................................................................................----------- 118,494 RIDDICK, HENRY, AND OTHERS. Recommend the pardon of three negro slaves condemned to death........................... 689 RICHARDSON, A. To Gov. Nelson....................................................................---------------------------- 474 RITCHIE, ARCHIBAL.D. To Gov. Nelson.....................................................................--------------------------- 359 To the governor....................................... - ---- 406 ROADS. - - Over which Washington's troops will pass to be repaired....................................... 423 ROANE, COL. W.M. To Gov. Nelson..........................................................................---------.------------ 430 ROBERTs, CHRISTOPHER. To Gov. Nelson................................................................-------------------------------- 464 ROBERTS, CAPTAIN. - From ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 437 ROBERTSON, M.R., D. C. G. Issues. To Col. Davies.......................................................... 54, 223, 240, 350, 456, 495, 623, 642
This page contains an image.
Page 721
INDEX. 721 To the governor; praying that a warrant from the Marquis De º: for six hun- dred thousand pounds on the treasury of Virginia, on account of the United States, for carrying on the commissary department, of which he is chief, may be honored. 406 To Col. — — .............................. ............................................... ........ 274 ROBINS, JNO., AND UPSHUR, JNO. - Report of commissioners of grain tax.................. ------------------------------------------------ 454 ROCHAMBEAU AND CHASTILLUX. - At Mt. Vernon................................................................................................ 453 - ROGERS, JNO. To Gov. Jefferson............................. ---------------------------------------------------------------- 76–7 RoNALD, ww. To Col. Wm. Davies......................................................................................... 498 ROSE, W.M., Keeper of Public Jail. To Col. Wm. Davies......................................................................................... 540 Makes return of prisoners in his charge............................................................... 634 To the governor; paper by a young prisoner named Jackson, giving account of a desperate gang of plunderers, who have long infested the Carolinas...................... 676 ROSE, DUNCAN. To Gov. Harrison............................................................................................. 670 ROSS, DAVID. To Col. Wm. Davies; how estimates should be made for supplying the troops.......... 16–17 To the governor............................................ 43, 87, 121, 127, 228, 235, 251, 281, 571, 668 To -- --- 86,287 To Gov. Jefferson.................. ...103, 115 Arms from Philadelphia 111 To Col. Davies........90, 114, 119, 121, 123, 130, 187, 201, 210, 221, 249, 280, 291, 370, 406, 437, 516, 607, 617, 633, 667 To Patrick Henry, Esq., Staunton...................................................................... 172 To Gov. Nelson.................................................................... 224, 230, 374, 418, 445, 616 To David Jameson, Esq., .# before him the claim of Messrs. Clark & Bentley.... 438 To Robert Morriss, Philadelphia........................................................................ 668 To Mr. Robert Crew, care Col. Cropper, Accomack... --- 544 To Col. Cropper................................................................ .............................. 547 ROSS, A., Aid De Camp to Lord Cornwallis. To Maurice Simons, Esq., of Charlestown, South Carolina, now at Williamsburg, *.................................... --------------------------------------------------------------------------. 621 RUCKER, A. To Col. Davies............................................................... ................................. 406 RUFFIN, JR., ED. To Gov. Nelson........... -------------- ....................................................................... 363 RU MORS. As to Admiral Digby and Sir Henry Clinton....................................................... 459 RUSSELL, CHAS., D. Q. M. To Col. Davies.............................................................................................. 147, 365 Recommends to Col. Davies the policy of distilling whiskey... .......... 191 To Maj. Claiborne......................................... .................................................. 878 RUSSELL, COL. W.M. - To Col. Davies...............................................................! ---------------------------------- 551 RYAN, M. To Gov. Nelson.................................................... --------------------------------------------- 692



91
Page 722
722 INDEX. ST. SIMON, MARQUIS. Cannot march for want of provisions.................................................................. 400 SANSUM, PHILLIP, Lieut. Commanding. To ; claiming the rank of captain since “the fall of Capt. Lawson, in 1780"...................................................................................................... SCHOONER “ HERO'S REVENGE.” - Captured by a Baltimore armed vessel................................................................. 170 SCOTT, J.R., J. To Col. Davies............................................................................................... 225,664 SEARCH WARRANT. To Abel West, by Col. De Fucks, Brittish command’t........................................... 100 SECRET CORRESPONDENCES. “Two charts of cyphers”...... -------- ------------------- ------------------------------------------------ 685 SELDEN, MILES. To the executive............................................................................................... 666 SENF, COL. To the governor...... ------------------------------ ...........31, 54,646 To Col. Davies... ... 269 To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................. 259 SHEED, ELEAR. - To the executive............................................................................................... 53 SHELBY, COL. ISAAC. To Col. Arthur Campbell................................................................................... 679 SHIELDS, JAMES. - To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 234 SHIPS. Purchased for the state difficult to pay for............................................................ 571 SHORT, WM. Petition to the executive to be examined for a license to practice law....................... 576 SICK. Of the French fleet, to be provided with houses and necessaries.............................. 523 SIMONS, JNO. (ºil) To Gov. Nelson..................... --------------------------------------------------------------------------- 559 SIMONS, M. To Gov. Harrison....................... ..................................................................... 669 SIMPSON, ED. To Capt. Edm'd Read, at Port Royal.................................................................. 66 To the governor............................................................................................... 303 SISSON, GEO. Deposition of.............. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---- -- 83 SKILLEN, COL. GEO. To Gov. Jefferson.... - • 42 To Gov. Nelson...... --- 183,218, 882 To Col. Wm. Davies....................................................................................... 214, 586



This page contains an image.
Page 723
INDEX. 723 SKINKER, J. To Gov. Jefferson; Depredations of the enemy on the Virginia side; on the Mary- land shore; strength of the enemy's fleet, and apprehensions therefrom ; necessity of defending the country, &c.; Capt. Read's cavalry.......................................... 27 SKIPWITH, HENRY. To Gov. Jefferson.............................................................................................. 49 To Gov. Nelson........................................................................................... .... 610 SLAVES. Registered in Henry county by Geo. Hancock of South Carolina; petition to the executive to sell six of them to support his family.............................................. 281 SLAUGHTER, COL. GEO. - To John Floyd................................................................................................. 17 To Gov. Jefferson; Capt. Jas. Francis Moore charged with irregular and dishonest conduct.......................................................…................................... ......... To Gov. Jefferson To Gov. Nelson............................................................................................... SLAVE. Condemned to be hung for treason............................................ ........................... 90 SMITH, DAN'L, Co. Lieut. Report of militia.............................................................................................. 690 SMITH, THOS., D. C. Mil. Stores. To Col. Davies, at Staunton.............................................................................. 166, 195 SOLDIERS’ ACC’T OF CLOTHING. Showing price of, &c......................................................... ------- ------------------------- 680 SOUTHALL, STEPHEN, A. Q. M. Gen’l. To Col. Davies.............................. .............................................. 50, 133, 124, 146, 147 617 SOUTHALL, COL. TURNER. To Col. Davies.... --- To Gov. Nelson................. To Chas. Russell, D. Q. M. 364 Certifies that he has administered the oaths H.” by law to be taken by a gov- ernor of the commonwealth unto Benj. Harrison, Esq., and to Thomas Lomax, Esq., as a privy councilor............................................................................... 633 Administers oath to Privy Councilor Beverly Randolph, Esq...... --------------------------- 659 SPADES AND OTHER IMPLEMENTS. In the river at Point of Fork............................................... .......... ................... 280 SPARKS, ALEX., Com. P. Tax. Reports amount of grain and tobacco collected as specific tax in that county for 1780 and 1781...................................................................................................... 410 SPENCER, JOS. To the executive............................................................................................... 363 SPOTSWOOD, GEN'L A. To — — .............................................................................................. 415 To Col. Davies............................................................................................... 441, 519 STARKE, BOLLING. To Gov. Jefferson................................................................................... ......... 78 STATE TROOPS. So badly provided with clothes that they are not fit for the field..... - 368 Almost naked................................................................................................... 566 STEVENS, BRIG. GEN’L EDW'D. To Gov. Nelson............................................................................................... 245, 310 General assembly directs a horse to be presented to................................................ 288



Page 724
724 INDEX. STEUBEN, MA.J. GEN’L. To the governor; time of service of Gen'i Muhlenburg's troops will expire in ten days; relief required............................ -------------------------------------------------------- 2 Orders saddles and accoutrements for 300 horse, and a large magazine-of forage at Petersburg.....................................................--------------------------------------------- 3 To the governor............. --- --- 43 General orders issued by -- 46 To Gov. Jefferson --- 50 To Col. Davies........ --- --- 66 In Philadelphia........................ ...................................... ................................ 666 STEVENSON, MAJ'R. D., 6th Va. Reg't. To Col. Davies....................................................................................:------------ 373 STEWART, CHARLES, AND OTHERS. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 488 STEWART, CHAS., Com. Gen'l of Issues. To John Robertson........................................................................................... 519 To Col. Wm. Davies --- ST. JOHN, M. D.E. To (French)..............................................................*.................... 535 STITH, BASSETT, A. Paymaster-General. To Gov. Nelson....................................................................................-----------. 298 STOKES, D. C., of Lunenburg. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................. 515 STOREs. At York reopened............................................................................................. 571 SUBSISTENCE. Of the army the grand object............................................................................. 448 SUCCESS. In the present military operations necessary to a favorable issue of the contest......... 474 SWAN, JNO. To Col. Davies............................................................................ 387, 394, 396, 493, 504 To Mr. John Pierce, Com. for state of Va.......................................................... 407 SYME, COL. J. To the governor....................................................................................... 56,61, 65, 66 To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 57 To Col. Davies.................................. ..61, 577 To Jno. Brown, Esq., C. G. of supplies......................................... ...377, 389 To Hon. David Jameson, Esq.................... ------------------------------ ....458, 478 To Gov. Nelson, &c., by Maj. Winston... --- ------------------------------------------------ 460 To — — ..................................................................................------...... 532 T TALIAFERRO, PHIL. - To Gen. Weedon, by express.............................................................................. 523 TARLETON. At Prince Edward Courthouse, and expected at New London Dismounted and wounded............................................................ TAYLOR, COL. FRANCIS. - To the governor............................................................................................ To Gov. Jefferson; disorganized state of the guard; injustice to officers..... To Gov. Jefferson - To Col. Davies................................................









Page 725
INDEX. 725 TAYLOR, JOHN. To Col. Wm. Davies.................................................................................. 96, 457, 493 To Thomas Nelson, Jr., governor, &c.................................................................. 175 To Gov.-Nelson, sending certain prisoners, among whom is Thomas Ivison, who came up in Walker's pretended flag vessel to York river, landed and secreted º: &c. 406 To “The Right Honorable The Marquis De Lafayette,” Green Spring Gardens......... 393 Memo. of field officers of the legion......................................."---------------------------- 646 To the governor............................... . 347 Sends return of militia of the county.................................................................. 44 TAYLOR, MAJOR JOHN. To Hon. David Jameson.................................................................................... 517 TAX IN GRAIN. Forms of returns made under the law levying specific, by commissioners................. 282 TAZEWELL, MR. HENRY. To Gov. Nelson, enclosing letter of Gov. Jefferson to Maj. Wall in regard to Mr. John Wickham; failure of the flag to arrive, and the consequent inconveniences to Mr. Wickham............................................................................................... 204 Certificate of, as to fitness of Mr. Nivison to practice law...................................... 244 TEBBS, CAPT. JOHN. - To Col. Davies.............................................. --------------------------------------------------- 468 TEMPLE, COL. S. - To Gov. Nelson............................................ ---------------------------------------------------- 514 TERRY, CAPT. NATHN'L, Tenth Virginia Regiment. To Col. Wm. Davies; is “a prisoner and a suffering soldier”................................. 577 THOMAS, CHARLES. To Col. Davies................................................. -------- ---------------------------------------- 364 THURSTON, CBIAS. M. To the governor........................................................................ ----------------------- 271 THORNTON, CAPT. PRESLEY. To the governor............................................................................................... 346 To Col. Davies ------------ 349, 399, 669 To Gov. Nelson............................................................ ----------------------------------- 564 TIMBERLAKE, JOHN, Clerk Quartermaster, &c. To Major R'd Claiborne.................................................................................... 434 TODD, JR., COL. JOHN. To Gov. Jefferson............................................................................................. 445 To Gov. Nelson........................ ........................... . 564 To the governor of Virginia 562 TODD, CAPT. ROBT. To the governor of Virginia.............................................................................. 651 TOMKIES, FRANCIS, Commissioner. Report of......................................................................................................... 514 TOWLES, COL. HENRY. To the executive......................................................................... ..................... 24 TOWLES, COL. O. To the governor; sends prisoners belonging to “British piratical crew” to Richmond. 57 To Col. Wm. Davies........................................................................................ 352 TRENT, PETERFIELD. To Major Claiborne......................... --------------------------------------------- -------------------- 676 TROOPS. Starving for want of provisions 811 Difficulty of subsisting...................................................................................... 319







Page 726
726 INDEX. TUCKER, THOS. TU D'R, Surgeon. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................. 295 TURNER, REUBEN. To Major Claiborne.......................................................................................... 618 TYLER, JOHN. - - Declines a seat in the council; solicited to represent his county again...................... 1 U UNITED STATES AND VIRGINIA. Account between.............. 391 V WAN METER, G., Col. Com'd'g. To Gov. Jefferson; Insurrection in the county, and opposition to the tax collector, &c......................................-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 29 To Gov. Jefferson....................................... To the governor of Virginia, at Staunton To Gov. Nelson................................................................................ To Col. Wm. Davies.......................... .............................................................. WANSWEARINGEN, LIEUT. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 288 VANTER, LIEUT., AND OTHERS, 1st State Reg't. To the governor............................................................................................... 389 WARNE, LT. COL. SAM'L. To Gov. Nelson........................................................................... .................... 514 WESSELS. Captured by French Fleet; authority to purchase, for Va...................................... 526 Needed to transport stores from York.................................................................. 586 VIN EGAR. Required for the troops, scarce on account of the total loss of the apple crop............ 410 VIOMENEIL. Embarked his troops for Yorktown Sept. 21, at head of Elk................................... 447 In command at York....................................................................................... 616 VIRGINIA DELEGATES. To ; Tory refugees on board ship L'Evielle, Capt. Tilly, bound from Chesapeake bay to Newport, R. I..................................................................... 4 VIRGINIA MILITIA. Large body, sent by governor............................................................................ . 390 VIRGINIA TROOPS. Within 8 miles of York; the French and most of the Continental troops a mile or two above..................................................................................................... 412 WADSWORTH & CARTER, MESSRS. To Gov. Nelson......................................................... --------------------------------------- 5iz WADSWORTH, J. To Col. Stewart and Eph. Blaine............................................ ---------------------------- 588

Page 727
INDEX. - 727 * WALKER, MA.J. BEN., Aid De Camp. Letter to Col. Davies........................ ----------- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 61 WALKER, JOHN. To the governor.......................... ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 129 WALKER, CAPT. LEVIN. To Col. Wm. Davies at Charlottesville................................................................ 212 WALKER, DR. THO. s To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 298 WALL, MICHAEL, Commissioner. To Col. Davies..................................................................................................... 498 WALLER, BEN. C. To Col. James Innes 258 To the governor 666 WALTON, ROBERT. To the governor................................................................................................ 331 WAR OFFICE. An act to regulate the department of.................................................................. 180 WARE, J. To Capt. Sam'l Jones, Point of Fork; letter of defence against charges of having shown the enemy the public stores, &c.............................................................. 212 WARMAN, THOS. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 112 To the governor WASHINGTON, GENERAL. Extract of a letter from.................................................................................... 149 And the allied army in the neighborhood of Dobbs' Ferry, intending to commence operations against New York................................................ ......................... 331 Expected, and only two days’ provisions on hand............... 421 Arrived at Williamsburg...................... --------------- ----------- 433 In good health and spirits .................................................. 534 Directed prisoners to be sent from York to Fredericksburg 578 On the 29th of August at Chatham with the French troops of the Northern army, and on the march for Virginia........................................................................ 381 WATSON, JNO. - To the governor, in behalf of Mr. William Ligon................................................ 247 WATKINS, JNO. To Col. Davies......................... ..................................................................... 326, 528 WATTS, THOS. Charged with high treason................................................................................. 138 WEBB, F., Com. Treas. To the governor; scarcity of money.................................................................... 34 WEBB, JOHN. To the executive................ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ----------------------------------. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... .. 218 WEBB, FOSTER. - To the executive............................................................................................... 396 WEBB, JR., F. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 408



Page 728
728 - INDEX. WEBB, GEO. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 544 To Col. Davies WEEDON, BRIG. GEN. G. To Maj. Gen'ſ Phillips; propositions for exchange................................................ 16 To Gov. Jefferson; movement of troops; character of his proposal to the Brittish General in regard to exchange; the enemy about to move................................... 20 Agrees to his proposals, &c.; principles of the exchange; the civil and military departments....................... To Gov. Jefferson. To the governor...... To Col. Wm. Davies; arms received and dispos of money, &c.; pledged his private estate To Col. Davies.................................................. To -- To Gov. Nelson From R. A. WESTERN TERRITORY. Cession of, by Virginia..................................................................................... 534 WHISKEY. £60 per gallon.................................................................................................. 320 WHITE, COL. Has men at Dungeness and Charlottesville in absolute need of clothing.................... 286 WHITE, COL. A. W. To the governor; arrest of Epaphroditus Rudder...... -------------------------------------------- 13 To Col. Davies.......................... ------------------------ --- To Gov. Nelson To WILKINS, DOUGLAS. To the governor................................................................................................ 247 WILLIAMS, THOS. C. - To Frederick Rhinelander................................................................................. 691 WILLIS, J.R., FRANCIS, Major Virginia Light Dragoons. - To Brig. Gen” Morgan..................................................................................... 250 WILSON, G., Surgeon. To General Hospital.......................................................................................... 112 To Col. Wm. Davies................................................................... ..186, 234, 298, 618 WINCHESTER. Prisoners arrived at.......................... ---------------------------------------------------------------- 579 WINSLOW, COL. BEVERLY. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 247 To Gov. Nelson, in behalf of two men who had been sentenced by court-martial to serve six months as having been delinquents...................................................... 248 WISHART, COL. WILL. To Gov. Nelson................................................................................................ 611 WOODROW, ANDREW. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 438 WOMACK, CHARLES. To Mr. Arch'd Blair, enclosing list of the negro slaves belonging at the public tan- nery and ropewalk......................................................................................... 536 WOOD, COL. JAMES. To the executive............................................................................. --------- -------- - 50







Page 729
INDEX. 729 To the governor or any member of the council To Gov. Harrison............................................ --- ... 673 WOOD, J.R., L., Sol. To the governor, in reply to his requesting a particular account of moneys expended for the Kentucky and Illinois departments............. .......................................... 417 WOODING, RO., County Lieutenant. To the governor; commissioners needed To the governor, To Col. Davies................................................................................................. WORKMEN'S WAGES. From 8s. to 6s. hard money................................................................................ 280 WORMLEY, J.R., RALPH. To Messrs. Walker and Denison, Portsmouth ..................................................... 171 To Gov. Nelson................................. --------------------------------------------------------------- 549 WORSHAM, RICH'D. To Col. Davies................................................................................................. 641 WRIGHT, EDWARD. Court-martial held for trial of............................................................................. 174 YARBROUGH, R'D., Commissioner. To Col. Davies.......................................... ------ ----------------------------------------- 270, 368, 392 YOUNG, CAPT. HENRY, A. D. Quartermaster. To Col. Davies......... To Gov. Harrison... To the governor .... YOUNG, CAPTAIN RICHARD. To Col. Davies............ ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Letter from... ................... To Major Claiborne YOUNGHUSBAND, CAPTAIN ISAAC. To Col. Davies—in reply................................................................................... 466





Page Scan 742
— = ------- -- - -
This page contains an image.
Page Scan 743
CALENDAR OK VIRGINIA STATE PAPEES AND OTHER MANUSCRIPTS, FROM APRIL 1, 1781, TO DECEMBER 31, 1781. PRESERVED lN THE CAPlTOL AT RlCHMOND. ARRANGED AND EDITED BY WM. P. PALMER, M. D., OF VIRGINIA, Under authority of the Legislature of Virginia. PREPARED FOR PUBLICATION BY SHERWIN McRAE, Under authority of the Library Committee. VOLUME n. RICHMOND: JAMES E. GOODE, PRINTER. 1881.
Page Scan 744
Blank page
Page Scan 745
Blank page
Page Scan 746
, •uinrttjurtf
Page Scan 747
Blank page
Page Scan 748
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN GRADUAL UBRARY

**4i ' . *<*•«*"* .

Page Scan 749
'3 9015 02856 9336



Page Scan 750
- . • .'.- ._'.". ' . -;;

"
This page contains an image.
End of Index. Continue to next section or 
End of text. Return to .

