Kaskaskia records, 1778-1790; ed. with introduction and notes by Clarence Walworth Alvord ..., v.5 1909. | HathiTrust Digital Library

Use of this online version is subject to all U.S. copyright laws. Please do not save or redistribute this file.
For questions or comments, contact HathiTrust.org at 



Full Bibliographic Information
Title
Kaskaskia records, 1778-1790; ed. with introduction and notes by Clarence Walworth Alvord ..., v.5 1909.
Author 
Alvord, Clarence Walworth, ed. 1868-1928,Alvord, Clarence Walworth, ed. 1868-1928,
Published 
Springfield, Ill.,The Trustees of the Illinois State Historical Library,1909.
Description 
4 p. ℓ., iii-L p., 1 ℓ., 681 p.front., ports., facsims.23 cm.
Rights 

Permanent URL 

Table of Contents





















Book Text
Front Cover
Page Scan 1
Kaskaskia records, 1778-1790Clarence Walworth Alvord, Kaskaskia (Ill.)
This page contains an image.
Page Scan 2
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page Scan 3
!

This page contains an image.
Page Scan 4
ILLINOIS STATE HISTORICAL LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES Edmund Janes James, Chairman McKendree Hypes Chamberlin, Vice-Président Jessie Palmer Weber, Librarian ADVISORY COMMISSION EVARTS BOUTELL GrEENE James Alton James Andrew Cunningham McLaughlin Charles Carleton Page Charles Henry Rammelkamp Clarence Walworth Alvord Spécial Editor of Publications > é
Page Scan 5
m tf F

Page Scan 6
Blank page
Page Scan 7
COLLECTIONS OF THE ILLINOIS STATE HISTORICAL LIBRARY VOLUME V
Page Scan 8
Blank page
Page Scan 9
VIRGINIA SERIES •VOLUME II. KASKASKIA RECORDS 1778-1790
Page Scan 10
Blank page
Page Scan 11
i I - i i 1 i i i i - - ; !
Page Scan 12
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page Scan 13
. • D t Y Tin. Illinois sfA i r >ïï-i—.:I~ igory
Page Scan 14
Blank page
This page contains an image.
End of Front Cover. Continue to next section or 
Title Page
Page i
COLLECTIONS OF THE ILLINOIS STATE HISTORICAL LIBRARY VOLUME V VIRGINIA SERIES, VOLUME II KASKASKIA RECORDS 1778-1790 Edited with Introduction and Notes dy CLARENCE WALWORTH ALVORD UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS Published by the Trustees of the ILLINOIS STATE HISTORICAL LIBRARY SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS igog J f
This page contains an image.
Page ii
Copyright, 1909 BY The Illinois State Historical Library Ktn Likfiftic R. R. DONNELLEY * SONS COMPANY CH1CAGO
Page iii
PREFACE In this, the second volume of the Virginia Series, will be found most of the unprinted sources used in writing the Intro- duction of the first volume. Some very important documents that will be missed are to be printed in succeeding volumes devoted to the career of George Rogers Clark, now being prepared by Professor J. A. James of Northwestern Univer- sity. These will be ready for the press by the end of the year. This series when completed will contain practically all the extant sources for the history of Illinois during the period, with the exception of some Virginia material easily accessible in the Calendar of Virginia State Papers, and some British sources already printed in the Collections of the historical societies of Wisconsin and Michigan. Thus a fairly complete picture of Illinois during the years 1778 to 1790 will be found in some ten volumes. The great majority of the documents printed here have been hitherto inaccessible to students except in manuscript form. It has not been my purpose to include in the volume material previously published in well-known collections, unless there was some special purpose to be served. Thus the documents illustrating the activities of Thomas Bentley have been given a place, because so many of the French letters, memorials, and records were concerned with his career. Yet all the Bentley material is not included, be- cause much of it had little bearing on Illinois history, and most of the material has already been published in the Michigan Historical Collections. In the first chapter there S

This page contains an image.
Page iv
iv ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS axe printed a few documents showing the conditions imme- diately preceding the occupation by the Virginians, but no attempt has been made to exhaust the documents for these years, which really belong to the previous period of the history of the state and will be printed in future volumes. The Menard Collection as far as it touches this period has been printed almost completely. Perhaps a dozen documents, such as bills, notes, and letters concerning the same have been omitted. The number of papers of the Kaskaskia Manuscripts that have been omitted is much larger, but these are all of a private character, such as marriage contracts, settlements of estates, petitions to the Court in private law suits, etc., the printing of which would add very little to the knowledge of the history of the period. Some time in the future a calendar of these will be made and printed, which will serve the purposes of the genealo- gist, the antiquarian, and possibly the historian of economic conditions. The Illinois State Historical Library is having all the manuscripts of these two collections mended, mounted, and bound, so that they can be easily consulted. The general rule in editing has been to arrange the docu- ments in chronological order. Exceptions occur where the topical arrangement seemed better and when the docu- ments, although dated at another time, illustrate conditions of an earlier or later date. The most important cases, wherein I have used my judgment in this way, are the early documents of the career of Timothé de Monbreun, and the last chapter, where are grouped all documents illus- trating ecclesiastical conditions. A word of explanation concerning the grouping into chapters should be made. These divisions are purely artificial and have been super- imposed upon the original arrangement, and the place of
Page v
PREFACE v a document has not been changed in order to make it fit into a chapter. The only purpose of the chapters is to break up the material into units that will render the collection more attractive to the reader. The subtopics give only a general idea of what is in the chapter and do not name each document. On page 603 will be found a complete list of the printed documents. Most of the translations are my own; but occasionally it has seemed best to use translations already existing. In these cases there will be found the word "Attested" after "Trans- lation." The full titles of books to which references are made may be found in the bibliography in Volume I of the series. The documents from the various collections printed in the volume have been copied or collated by the following persons: B. M., by Miss Mary Martin, of London, England. Dr. MSS., by Dr. Louise Phelps Kellogg. C. C. Pp., ecclesiastical letters by Miss Edna Stone, of Washington; the memorials, etc., by agents of the Car- negie Institution. Va. State Lib., by Dr. H. J. Eckenrode of that insti- tution. Archiepiscopal Archives of Quebec, under supervision of Abbé L. Lindsay, archivist. K. MSS., M. C, T. MSS., and New Madrid Archives by Mrs. Alvord and myself. Besides thanking these who have assisted me in obtain- ing copies, I wish to express my gratitude also to Dr. Reuben G. Thwaites of the Wisconsin Historical Society and Dr. J. Franklin Jameson of the Carnegie Institution, who have been more than generous in giving me information and ad-
Page vi
vi ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS vice, whenever I have made demands upon them. From Mr. Benjamin Suite of Ottawa, Canada, I received many valuable biographical notes; and to my colleagues Professor Raymond Weeks and Mr. Louis Imbert of the Romance Department I am also greatly indebted for assistance in the translation. The index has been prepared by Miss Mary G. Doherty. Clarence Walworth Alvord. Urbana, Illinois, September, 1909. i'
End of Title Page. Continue to next section or 
Table of Contents
Page vii
TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE List of Abbreviations . . . . . xiii Introduction .... . . . xv Chapter I. The Prelude i George Morgan and the American traders; complaints of Bentley and Murray against Rocheblave; Clark's spies in Kaskaskia; Bent- ley's arrest and his justification; Lieutenant Governor Hamilton's re- port; the Court of Enquiry exonerates Rocheblave; Bentley's relations with the Americans; an attack expected. Chapter II. The Rule of the Virginia Soldiers m Illinois, July 4, 1778, to May 12,1779 47 Governor Henry appoints Winston captain; Cerré writes to Clark; Father Gibault, Dr. Laffont, and the submission of Vincennes; Se- quin's account; Gabriel Cerré; Harrod and Williams borrow money; instructions to Clark; a proclamation concerning slaves; Bentley's friends; John Todd appears; Father Gibault sells some land. Chapter III. The Beginnings of Civil Government, May 12 to November 13, 1779 . . . . . . 80 Speeches by Clark and Todd; elections and appointments; presen- tation of grievances; exports prohibited; money difficulties; John Dodge escapes from captivity; sessions of the Court; letters from Todd; disorders in Kaskaskia; Montgomery collects supplies; the peltry fund; prohibition of the liquor traffic; refusal of more supplies; an estimate of Todd's administration. Chapter IV. The Court and the Military, November 15, 1779, to June 8, 1780 133 Difficulties of the military; Bentley escapes from captivity; inhabi- tants petition and the Court asserts its dignity; letter from Governor Jefferson; the peltry fund again; Montgomery threatens to use force; Girault complains of the Court; an agent of France in the West; John Dodge reports. Chapter V. The Summer of 1780, June to October . .161 Colonel de la Balme at Fort Pitt; Bentley writes to the British and American officers; Rocheblave to Haldimand; De la Balme addresses the Illinois French; memorial of grievances; Winston writes of wrongs; departure of Montgomery; petition to the French minister. vii

Page viii
.' viii CONTENTS Chapter VI. The Triumvirate, October 18, 1780, to March, 1781 202 1 Bentley writes to his enemies; John Rogers makes demands; the magistrates complain of further exactions; George Morgan writes to Dodge; Captain Rogers threatens and the magistrates show some spirit; Captain George sends his sympathy; accounts of misman- agement; Winston criticises the Court; Thomas Bentley refuses to take the oath of allegiance; he appeals to Virginia; Richard M'Carty is appointed commissioner to Virginia and makes his will; a me- morial to the governor; Captain Janis writes of De la Balme. Chapter VII. The Government of the Magistrates, "i March, 1781,10 April, 1782 248 William Shannon writes to Clark; Joseph Labuxiere; Pierre Lang- lois demands explanations; Winston defends his rights of appointment; he accuses the Court of tyranny; Jacques Lasource defends the Court; a new election of magistrates. Chapter VIII. The Struggle for Ascendency Between Dodge, Winston, and the Court, April to Novem- ber, 1782 . . . . .... 272 John Dodge arrests Richard Winston; the latter protests; Labuxiere examines witnesses; the inhabitants make some suggestions; an election at Prairie du Rocher; Americans at Beliefontaine petition for a Court; the election; international diplomacy on the banks of the Mississippi; a new election at Kaskaskia; Winston writes to the new magistrates; Carbonneaux sells out; records of the sessions of the Court. Chapter IX. The Coming of the Commissioners from Vir- ginia, November, 1782, to March, 1783 .... 313 The shyness of the witnesses; Winston and Carbonneaux prepare to go to Virginia; the commissioners send an announcement to Illinois; Winston confers his commission of county-lieutenant on De Monbreun; letters concerning the services of the new county-lieutenant; the inhabi- tants send two memorials to the commissioners; Dodge writes of his accounts; the representatives from Illinois are late; the death of Richard Winston. Chapter X. The Ascendency of John Dodge, March, 1783, to August 14,1786 340 Land-grants to Dodge; Rocheblave again; Aymé Comte, judge; De Monbreun enumerates his services; a fragment of a court-record; Dodge's faction petitions Congress; so does Carbonneaux; reports of Congressional committees; the county-lieutenant upholds the dig-

Page ix
CONTENTS ix nity of the United States; an account of the great freshet; John Edgar writes to Clark; the French faction petitions Congress; Gabriel Cerré answers questions. Chapter XI. The French Assert Themselves, August 14, 1786, to August, 1787 390 De Monbreun appoints Barbau county-lieutenant; a resolution of Congress; Bouvet acts as judge; Alder and Edgar write to Clark; news from Congress; Madame Bentley; the revival of the Court; proposed duties of western commissioner; The French judges protest against American judges; the agreement; census of the District of Kaskaskia. Chapter XII. The Coming of Colonel Harmar as Told by a Small Faction of the French, August, 1787 . 424 Father de la Valiniere writes of John Dodge; his account of Tardi- veau and Harmar; a picture of the tyranny of Dodge; Madame Bent- ley petitions Congress; Langlois writes concerning Tardiveau's mission. Chapter XIII. Barthelemi Tardiveau Appeals to the Con- tinental Congress, August, 1787, to September 17,1788 . 440 The contracts made; the case of the Americans and French stated; Flint and Parker petition for land; Tardiveau defends himself; per- suasive arguments; an unfavorable report; the delay of the new governor will be fatal; George Morgan forms a land company; a more favorable report; Tardiveau not satisfied; Congress favors Morgan's plan but makes concessions to the French and Americans; Morgan makes further demands; alterations in the bill of June 20; Tardiveau's last memorial; some lost letters. Chapter XIV. The Climax of Anarchy, August, 1787, to March 5, 1790 ........ 496 Justice by arbitration; the letters of Major Hamtramck; the emi- gration to the Spanish bank; the hostility of the Indians; a new court at Vincennes; the question of slavery in the Northwest; a petition for help from Kaskaskia; John Edgar describes conditions; John Rice Jones writes of the anarchy. Chapter XV. Ecclesiastical Letters, 1780 to 1792 . . 518 Father Gibault writes to Clark; the same denies that he assisted the Americans; Edgar and Tournier complain of Father St. Pierre; Father Gibault describes conditions; Father de la Valiniere and the inhabi- tants of Cahokia; a description of the Cahokia Mission; the inhabi- tants of Kaskaskia complain of the vicar-general; the priests petition for appointment in Canada; correspondence of the bishops concerning the West; Bishop Carroll writes to Father Gibault. List of Documents ....... 603 Index ^^ 62 c *^_

This page contains an image.
Page x
Blank page
Page xi
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS PAGE Portrait of Gabriel Cerré .... Frontispiece Facsimile of Commission to Winston .... 47 Facsimile of Laffont's Letter 50 Facsimile of French Names 239 Facsimile of Ballot Sheet 301 Portrait of John Rice Jones 426 Facsimile of American Names 444 Portrait of Father Gibault 518
End of Table of Contents. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page xii
1 I I I \ \ [ 1
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page xiii
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS A. D. S. = Autograph Document Signed. A. L. S. = Autograph Letter Signed. B. M. = British Museum. All the documents from B. M. herein printed, are from the Haldimand Col- lection. Can. Arch. B. = Canadian Archives, Haldimand Collection. C. C. Pp. = Continental Congress Papers. C. MSS. = Cahokia Manuscripts. Draper MSS., 48J28 = Draper Manuscripts, Clark Papers, vol. 48, p. 28; 2W39 = Harmar Papers, etc. D. S. = Document Signed, f. = Folio. K. MSS. = Kaskaskia Manuscripts. L. S. = Letter Signed M. C, T. MSS. = Menard Collection, Tardiveau Manuscripts. [ ] = With Italics: editorial explanations within docu- ments or translations. [ ] = With Roman: words supplied by editor in docu- ments or translations. ( ) = In document, implied in document, or supplied punctuation. The manuscript collections of the above list are described in Illinois Historical Collections, II., p. cli.
Page xiv
Blank page
Page xv
INTRODUCTION The successive pictures presented in the following pages are those of a French frontier community thrown into con- fusion by the extension to it of the forces of a civil conflict in which its citizens had relatively little interest. When the Revolutionary War developed into a world conflict, the villages of the Illinois country, neglected for the past two decades by their successive masters, were drawn into the maelstrom of war and politics; and the interests of their inhabitants, whose chief occupation was the buying and sell- ing of furs, were disturbed by forces external to themselves; and the destiny of the land they occupied became the subject of serious diplomatic correspondence between four nations. After the close of the war, while the United States were adjusting themselves to the new conditions preparatory to taking possession of the western territory, there followed for this frontier community a most painful period. During these years the Illinois villages were left without provision for their government; and the local condition became almost unendurable on account of that hopeless anarchy of which these pages furnish so many proofs. In Volume I of this series there were presented the records of Cahokia, the most northern of the French villages of the American Bottom. The reader will find these records of Kaskaskia more dramatic in detail and denouement, for the village was the political center of the territory, and its proximity to Kentucky attracted to it the American pioneers who were seeking homes or were occupying land with which

Page xvi
xvi ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS to speculate. The mingling of two such peoples, alien to each other in language, political experience, and religion, within the small community created a dramatic situation that resulted in the stirring events whose story is here chronicled. That story was the subject of the Introduction to the first volume of this series, to which the reader is referred for an interpretation of the documents.1 There are certain problems presented by the printed documents, however, that deserve a more detailed treat- ment than the form of the introduction to the series per- mitted. These are so unconnected with each other in character and time that any attempt to write a consecutive narrative would be foreordained to failure. It will, there- fore, be excusable if this introduction is thrown into a form better suited to its limitations, and there is presented a series of separate problem studies. This arrangement will permit a diversity in manner of treatment in accord- ance with the requirements of the subject-matter of each. I. Thomas Bentley and the Occupation of the Illinois Country in 1778 The historian pursuing that elusive idea called truth is happy when, after collecting all available material, the testimony of the sources supplement each other so com- pletely that he can declare: "Thus must this event have happened, and not otherwise." Unfortunately in the deter- mination of some most elemental truths of the historical science this result is not to be attained, and the historian is compelled to content himself with approximately true explanations. Often even this is not attainable; and the 'See III. Hist. Collections, ii.
Page xvii
THOMAS BENTLEY AND G. R. CLARK xvii residue of his research yields a plausible hypothesis, or perhaps only a speculative conception. It is to be feared that the present subject under investigation can be regarded only as a matter for speculation. The very nature of the evidence adduced is such that no assertion of proved fact can be made; yet the examination of the sources is not wholly idle, since it may lead to further search, by which a truth may be ascertained; or, if such is not the result, still it may assist some future student in interpreting allied facts by pointing out the possibility of distant connections. The more one studies the history of the Illinois country previous to and during the Revolutionary War, the more important appear the commercial activities of the resourceful Thomas Bentley. Almost nothing is known of his early career. He went from London, probably soon after the French and Indian War, to West Florida, where he established a store at Manchac. From here he traded in furs up the Mississippi. The date when he transferred his headquarters to Kaskaskia is unknown; but since his name does not appear in the early British records, that event was probably not earlier than the seventies. From his first appearance in Kaskaskia, he seems to have managed a successful and profitable business. In 1777, when he married Marguerite Bauvais, he established his position in the community on a firm basis by allying himself with one of the richest and most important French families in the Illinois country. Bentley was primarily a merchant, seeking first of all his own interests, which would no doubt have prospered had not the war between the colonies and Great Britain offered him a favorable opportunity for scheming, in which his mind seems to have taken peculiar delight. In this

Page xviii
xviii ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS he was actuated solely by motives of self-interest, and he attempted to play off one party against the other for his own profit. His letters printed in this volume and elsewhere prove his adeptness in double dealing and the unreliableness of his own statements. A man of his character would take good care to cover all traces of his duplicity, particularly when he was so carefully watched by the suspicious British agent, Rocheblave, so that it is not surprising that the evi- dence of his relation to Clark's expedition against the Illinois country is difficult to find to-day. Although proofs which may have once existed are no longer extant, there are indi- cations of some interference on his part at this important crisis in the affairs of Illinois. These do not furnish an absolute proof, but are of such a character that they are worth bringing together in the hope that some document may later turn up which will either establish or disprove the fact. The external circumstances of which there can be no doubt are these. One of the chief needs of the revolting colonies was gunpowder, which they had hitherto imported from England. With the closing of this source of supply, it became necessary to purchase it elsewhere; and this need gave occasion for one of the boldest undertakings in western annals. On July 19, 1776, Captain George Gibson of the Virginia line and Lieutenant William Linn set out from Fort Pitt for the purpose of negotiating a purchase in New Orleans. There arose in that city some difficulties with the Spanish commandant on account of the neutrality laws, difficulties which were happily overcome; and the gun- powder was purchased through the aid of Oliver Pollock, the agent of Virginia. With forty-three men in several barges Lieutenant Linn departed from New Orleans, September 22, to return with
Page xix
THOMAS BENTLEY AND G. R. CLARK xix a cargo of 9,000 pounds of powder. On account of the lateness of the season, the party wintered at the Arkansas Post. In the spring the Americans started again north- ward and reached the mouth of the Ohio on March 3,1777, and passed up that river to their destination in safety.1 The problem to be investigated in connection with this expedition is comprised in these questions: Did Thomas Bentley's boat meet the Americans; and, if it did, was a message concerning the defenceless condition of Kaskaskia sent to Kentucky or elsewhere by Bentley; did Bentley invite the Americans to occupy Illinois; and was this mes- sage conveyed to George Rogers Clark? With the exception of the first, no one of the questions can be definitely an- swered. The fact that Bentley's boat actually met the Americans near the mouth of the Ohio appears to be sufficiently proved by the testimony given before the Court of Enquiry estab- lished by Rocheblave.2 If it is thought that the principal witness was influenced by Rocheblave to swear falsely, other testimony that is unimpeachable exists. Captain Gibson had returned from New Orleans by the sea and gave notice of the expected arrival of Lieutenant Linn. On January 28, 1777, Colonel Dorsey Pentecost instructed Captain William Harrod to go down the Ohio to the assistance of Linn. In his letter he wrote: "If you should not fall in with Captain Linn (who superintends and Conducts the said Cargo) before you arrive at the mouth of the Ohio, I think it will be necessary that you pass up the Mississippi to the Kaskaskias Village, where you will make inquiry & 1 For the history of this expedition, consult Thwaites and Kellogg, Revolution on the Upper Ohio, pp. xvii, 326. 'See post, testimony of Bolen, p. 34. Bentley himself acknowledged that his boat met Linn in the river, post, p. 13.

Page xx
xx ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS probably meet with Captain Linn with his Cargo."1 This would prove that some kind of aid or communication was expected from Kaskaskia. Another piece of evidence points to Bentley and his friends. In a memorial to the Virginia Legislature in 1781, Bentley's faithful follower and hench- man, Daniel Murray, asserted that his brother William, a well-known supporter of the American cause, sent him a letter from New Orleans by George Gibson. This must have been in 1776 or 1777, for William Murray only left Kaskaskia for New Orleans in the former year.2 The probable time when the letter was brought was in 1777; and it must have been carried by Linn's boat to the Ohio and conveyed by Bentley's boat to Kaskaskia. Although Bentley's boat met Linn at the mouth of the Ohio, did it convey information about the defenceless con- dition of Illinois and an invitation to occupy the country? This second part of the problem offers greater difficulties, because the evidence is more inferential in character. First of all comes the testimony of Bentley himself. On June 18, 1783, a petition from him was presented to the Virginia House of Delegates,3 "setting forth that he was an inhabi- tant of Kaskaskia, and by early endeavors to support the American cause, sustained great injury in his property and personal liberty from the British, that he is now greatly indebted for contracts actually made for the good of the service, and praying relief." If the statement is worthy of credence at all, Bentley suffered for his services to the American cause at the hands of the British. This aid could have been given only in the spring of 1777, when his boat met Linn at the mouth of the Ohio, for shortly afterwards 1 Thwaites and Kellogg, Revolution on the Upper Ohio, M7. 'Va. Stale Papers, ii., 675. 8 See Journal under date.
Page xxi
THOMAS BENTLEY AND G. R. CLARK xxi he was arrested and taken to Canada and endured the suffer- ing for which he asked reparation. In a memorial to the British authorities Bentley swears that the Americans forcibly seized some corn from his boat; but even if there was a real sale, it was hardly of sufficient merit to be called "endeavors to support the American cause," so that it is probable that the above allusion is to other services.1 The Virginia officers, who accompanied Clark to Illinois, evidently regarded themselves under some obligation to Bentley; for, as soon as they had captured Vincennes in the spring of 1779, Captain Bowman and Clark's secretary, Jean Girault, wrote to the British authorities concerning his release.2 Such an act would be indeed strange, if Bentley was simply an English merchant without interest in the American struggle, as he claimed. For such a man the Virginians would have had little regard; but their act is easily explained, if he had been the means of conveying the information to them that made their undertaking suc- cessful. Possibly the guarded statement of Captain Rogers in 1781 concerning the services of Bentley to the state may be also taken as evidence from a similar source.3 The last witness to be summoned is Philippe de Roche- blave, British agent in Illinois. In 1780 he asserted that one man had been responsible for the fall of the Illi- nois country, and that one was Thomas Bentley.4 This is certainly prejudiced testimony, but his statement reveals his firm conviction that Bentley had played the traitor to the British cause and had been instrumental in bringing the Virginians to Illinois. 1 See memorial printed post, p. 12. 'Set foil, pp. 73, 74- * Post, p. an. iPost, p. 179. 1
Page xxii
xxii ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS The third part of the problem is the most difficult to solve and the result most doubtful. Did Bentley's message concerning the condition in the Illinois country reach George Rogers Clark? First of all it is to be noticed that Clark never hinted at such a communication in any of his accounts or personal letters concerning the event;1 but, instead, he always laid great stress on the ignorance of everybody concerning his plans. After viewing the evidence in preparation for my earlier study of the period, I came to the conclusion that Clark remained totally ignorant of a party in Kaskaskia friendly to the American cause, at least up to the day before the attack.2 A closer study of the documents, while editing them, has somewhat shaken this opinion. Clark's own silence may have been, at first, the payment of a debt of gratitude to Bentley, who would have suffered severely at the hands of the British, — for he was at the time a prisoner in Quebec — had Clark acknowledged any communication between them, and had this information become known in Canada. After Bentley escaped and returned to Illinois, he attempted to continue his double dealing and to keep on good terms with both the British and the Ameri- cans; and he continued to play this game up to the day of his death, so that he was never in a position to demand that Clark should acknowledge his debt, if debt there was. Since Clark's silence cannot be accepted as indubitable proof of the non-existence of such communication, we may seek elsewhere. If it is true that Bentley's boat met that under the command of William Linn and some message was sent by Bentley, the fact that Clark was on intimate 1 Besides the narratives printed in English, Conquest of the Country Northwest of the River Ohio, see Amer. Hist. Review, viii., 491. * 111. Hist. Collections, ii., pp. xxxix., xlii.
Page xxiii
THOMAS BENTLEY AND G. R. CLARK xxiii terms with both Linn and Gibson is an important fact. Any information concerning Kaskaskia obtained by the men of Linn's boat would have been passed on to Clark; in fact, the latter must have made inquiries from them, for he was thinking how best to serve the West at this very time. The information, imparted by Bentley's men was given, if at all, in the last of February or the first of March. The date is important, for on May 25, two spies, S. More and B. Linn, sent by Clark, were in Kaskaskia.1 Is this sig- nificant? Is it not possible that the occasion for send- ing the spies had been a message from Bentley? Of course the proximity of the dates may be a mere coinci- dence, but the circumstance is made more striking from the fact that Clark selected a brother of William Linn as his agent to go to Kaskaskia. The case in favor of Bentley's correspondence with Clark is also strengthened by the for- mer's knowledge that spies were to be sent. Bentley departed from Kaskaskia in May to go to Mackinac.2 Shortly after leaving he wrote to his friend, Daniel Murray, to inquire about some hunters who were expected to appear in the village. Our information is derived from Murray's answer. He wrote: "As to the hunters you write of there is three of them, one of which was here before, his name Benjn Lynn, but they bring no news that I can here [sic] of worth your hearing."8 This last bit of evidence is perhaps the most conclusive of all that has been discovered. Murray's statement shows that Bentley had written concerning the expected coming of some hunters whom he had not seen. The manner in 1 See Murray's letter to Bentley, post, p. 8. 2 Bentley's memorial, Mich, Hist. Collections, lax., 347. 3 Printed post, p. 8. J i
Page xxiv
xxiv ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS which Murray mentioned the number makes it seem like a correction of a statement by Bentley concerning the same. One wonders if there had been an inquiry about two. In the above discussion we have considered only the possibility of a communication being sent by Bentley through William Linn. But this was by no means the only oppor- tunity. According to the testimony given in the Court of Enquiry, one of Bentley's boats was on the Ohio for some time in 1776, and even was sent up the river above the falls to the Kentucky River.1 If this occurred, the opportunities of sending a communication to the Kentuckians, even to Clark himself, must have been numerous. To the above considerations must be added the events that occurred at the time of the seizure of the village of Kaskaskia, which point to some communication between Clark and the party of American sympathizers within the village. The most important of these is the ease with which Clark found boats on the eastern side of the river.' Bentley, however, could not have been responsible for this, since he was at that time a prisoner in the hands of the British author- ities on account of his act in sending a boat to the assistance of the Americans. In this connection it is also interesting to note that Clark must have expected to find sympathizers in Kaskaskia, for he came provided with commissions for them signed by Governor Patrick Henry.s We have already seen that Clark's officers sought to bring about Bentley's release. After the latter's return to Illinois, Clark continued to grant him his support, in spite of the many accusations of dishonesty against him. Bent- ley's best friend was Clark's relative, Captain John Rogers; 1 See fost, pp. 33-36- 3 Fully discussed in III. Hist. Collections, ii., p. xlii. 1 See post, p. 47.
Page xxv
FATHER GIBAULT AND VINCENNES xxv and when Bentley went to Virginia to collect some money due him, Clark gave him a strong indorsement and recom- mended him for more important employment.1 Such is the evidence. As thus set forth the case appears strong in spite of the circumstantial character of the evi- dence, but therein lies its weakness. There is not an event, used as proof, which cannot be explained without reference to Clark's act in occupying the Illinois villages. Thus Bentley may have sent his boats to the Ohio simply because he saw a good opportunity to make a profit; and his knowl- edge of the presence of Clark's spies may have been derived from some innocent source; and his inquiry concerning them may have been prompted by idle curiosity. There- fore the case is not proved. On the strength of the evi- dence one may be inclined to declare that the conception of the occupation of the Northwest originated in the fertile brain of Thomas Bentley; but a careful consideration of the facts shows that the result of this investigation is a subject for speculation, but not the establishment of a fact by unassailable proof. II. Father Pierre Gibault and the Submission of Post Vincennes, 17782 After George Rogers Clark had obtained possession of Kaskaskia and the other French settlements on the Mis- sissippi, in July, 1778, he realized that his position was precarious as long as the British held the posts on the Wabash River, the channel of communciation between Canada, Detroit, and the Ohio. His company of soldiers was too > See Va. Slate Paters, ii., 153. * This study is reprinted with a few changes from the editor's introduction to the documents il- lustrating the subject printed in the Amer. Hist. Review, lav.. No. 3, p. 544 et seq.
Page xxvi
xxvi ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS small to risk a bold advance upon Vincennes, and he was obliged to consider means of securing the village by persua- sion. The story of the mission of Father Gibault to Vin- cennes is well known; and Clark's own narratives are counted among the few classics of the literature of western history.1 The documents concerning this event in this volume, which have been hitherto almost unknown, sup- plement those famous narratives. Since all the testimony on this subject is not easily reconciled, it will be worth while to study somewhat carefully the history of the sub- mission of Vincennes in July, 1778. Ever since Judge John Law wrote in his Colonial History of Vincennes that to Father Gibault "next to Clark and Vigo the United States are [more] indebted for the accession of the states comprised in what was the original Northwest Territory than to any other man," the honor of securing the submission of Vincennes has been unanimously assigned to the parish priest, while his associate and the part he took in the enterprise have been almost forgotten; and no attempt has ever been made to estimate the value of his services.2 Like the historians, the British officers in the West believed, from the first, that the chief instrument in the win- ning of Vincennes for the Virginians was Father Gibault. Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton of Detroit wrote, on August 8, 1778: "I have no doubt that by this time they [the Vir- ginians] are at Vincennes, as, when the Express came away, one Gibault a French priest, had his horse ready to go thither from Cahokia [Kaskaskia] to receive the submission of the inhabitants in the name of the Rebels."8 On the 1 His letter to Geroge Mason, November 10,1779, and his Memoir of a later date are printed in the appendix to English, W. H., Conquest 0] the Country Northwest 0] the River Ohio, vol. i. 2 Winsor, The Westward Movement, p. 120, is satisfied with a statement that the submission was obtained by both Father Gibault and Lanont. 'Canadian Archives, B, vol. 122, p. 115. For further testimony of the British officers see J. P. Dunn, in Transactionsoj the 111. Hist. Soc., 190s, p. 27; Am. Calh. Hist. Researches, v., 53, viii., 186.
Page xxvii
FATHER GIBAULT AND VINCENNES xxviî «"•-'*-, ff4S— other hand the first report of Clark to Governor Patrick Henry, which has unfortunately not been preserved, evidently gave credit for the outcome to Father Gibault and Dr. Laffont, for Henry in a letter to Clark, dated December 15, 1778, wrote: "I beg you will present my compliments to Mr Gibault and Doctor Lafong [sic] & thank them for me for their good services to the State."' But this is hearsay testimony. We turn to the state- ments of those who participated in the act, George Rogers Clark, Father Pierre Gibault, and Jean Baptiste Laffont. The first is a trustworthy witness concerning the con- ception of the plan and the preparations for putting it into execution; but his knowledge of the occurrences in Vincennes was derived from others and more particularly from the two agents.1 One weakness in this witness should be noted: he understood no French and was obliged to trust to his interpreter, Jean Girault.1 The two accounts left us by Clark differ somewhat in details. According to the earlier, the letter to Mason, the conception of the plan was his own. Realizing the weakness of his position, as long as Vincennes was in the possession of the enemy, and the impossibility of securing the place by force, he had recourse to stratagem and pretended to make preparations for an attack, in the hope that the French of Kaskaskia, anxious for their friends and relatives, would offer to win the village by persuasion. In this he was successful, and several Kaskaskians came forward as advocates for Vincennes. Among these was Father Gibault, who told Clark that sol- diers were unnecessary for the enterprise and that he would > Printed post, p. 64. 2 In his Memoir, Clark wrote that he sent a spy with the emissaries, so that the report of the agents may have been confirmed by a third witness, whose testimony has not been preserved. English, Conquest ■>/ the Country Northwest of the River Ohio, 1, 487. * On Girault, consult III. Hist. Collections, ii., p. 20, n. 2.
Page xxviii
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS himself go on the mission; but that, as his duties were spiritual, some one must be appointed to take charge of the affair. The parish priest assured Clark, however, "that he would give them [the people of Vincennes] such hints in the spiritual way that would be conducive to the business." Dr. Laffont was appointed the leader of this expedition and received the instructions.1 In the other narrative, the Memoir, more prominence is given to the parish priest. In the first place Clark does not assume the credit for the conception of the plan. The priest was called into conference relative to taking Vin- cennes and said that he did not think it worth while to send a military expedition, since he was certain that, when the inhabitants were acquainted with what had occurred in Illinois and with the American cause, they would submit. Gibault then offered to go himself for this purpose. As in the other account, the priest demanded an associate; but, according to this narrative, he named him, and promised that he himself would privately direct the whole. Written instructions were given by Clark to Laffont, and verbal instructions to the priest.' Since the letter to Mason is more authoritative than the Memoir, the credit of originating the plan may safely be assigned to Clark. To his two narratives should be added the testimony of the instructions, a copy of which Clark did not possess when he wrote his Memoir.* These were addressed to Laffont, and he was instructed to "act in concert" with Father Gibault, "who, I hope, will prepare the inhabitants to agree to your demands." 1English, Conquest, I., 419. It is to be noted that the instructions were addressed to Laffont. Amer. Hist. Review, xiv, No. 3, p. 549. These instructions will be printed in the volumes of Clark papers. 1 English, Conquest, i., 487. 2 Ibid. These instructions are printed in Amer. Hist. Review, xiv., No. 3, p. 549.
Page xxix
FATHER GIBAULT AND VINCENNES xxix The testimony of Father Gibault dates from the year 1786, but it can be shown that the evidence harks back to an earlier date. In a letter of that year, addressed to the bishop of Quebec,1 he denied having been responsible for the submission of the people of Vincennes. In fact he declared that he had not gone for the purpose of influencing the people, but only to attend to his parochial duties. In a letter of 17832 he mentioned his intention of writing in a short time an account of the occurrences of the past few years, and in another of 17883 he mentioned the fact of having written such a letter. Unfortunately this letter has not been preserved; but it is evident from the context of the existing letters that he wrote of his own acts and made statements similar to those in the letter of 1786, so that it may be taken for granted that in 1783 he was denying his participation in the submission of Vincennes. There is evidence of an earlier date. Clark's statement is that the priest offered to go to Vincennes, and went as an emissary of Virginia.4 That he acted as secretary of the embassy is evident from the fact that he kept some kind of a journal which was handed to Clark on his return. In spite of the success of the expedition Father Gibault was unwilling to be counted an actor in it, for having learned of the village gossip about his influence in Vincennes, he persuaded Dr. Laffont to write, a few days after their return, a letter to Clark, in which Laffont assumed all responsibility." In less than a month after he started for Vincennes, there- fore, he was saying that he had done nothing more than 1 See post, p. 541. *See post, p. 520. 'Seepost, p. 585. 'Clark's letter of instructions. Amer. Hist. Review, xiv., No. 3, p. 549. 8 Laffont's letter, post, p. 50. 8 Ibid., a comparison of the handwriting of this letter with other specimens of Laffont's handwrit- ing leaves no doubt about its authenticity. s
This page contains an image.
Page xxx
xxx ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS counsel "peace and union and to hinder bloodshed." One act of Father Gibault's contradicts this testimony. When it was expected that Kaskaskia would be retaken by the British in the early winter of 1778, Clark reported that the priest was in great fear of falling into the hands of Hamilton. If this is a fact, Father Gibault must have been conscious of having committed an act which the British officer would regard as treasonable.1 Our information concerning Laffont is very meager. He was a native of the West Indies, whence he moved to Florida and later to Kaskaskia. He was living in the lat- ter place in August, 1770, at which date his signature was written on a power of attorney. He was still in the village in 1782, but he had moved by 1787 to Vincennes, for his name and those of his sons are found in the census of the village for that year.3 His whole testimony is contained in his letter to Clark on August 7, 1778.* From this we learn that Father Gibault accompanied him, acted as secretary, and made a report to Clark. He did not, however, interfere in the temporal affairs of the embassy, except to counsel peace. Laffont claimed for himself the sole responsibility of the undertaking. The oath administered to the people of Vincennes offers some further evidence.4 This illiterate French could never have been written by the priest, whereas it may have been the work of Laffont, although his letter shows a greater familiarity with the written language. In the analysis of the above sources, it must be remem1 English, Conquest, i, 43a. ^Kaskaskia MSS.; Papers of the Continental Congress, vol. 48, p. 167; post, p. 309; Draper MSS., 18 J 79. This last is a letter to Dr. Draper, dated 1848, from the executor of the estate of Dr. Laffont's son. The letter states that Laffont moved to Ste. Genevieve, where he died about August, 1779, at the age of forty. From the records of Kaskaskia, this dateis proved to be wrong. The identity of the Jean Bte. Laffont of the Vincennes census is strengthened by the following facts. He is forty-eight years old and has two sons with the same names as those given in the letter to Dr. Draper. I suspect that the date of his death at Ste. Genevieve should be 1799. 8 Post, p. 50. * Printed in Amer. Hist. Review, xiv., No. 3, p. 550.
Page xxxi
FATHER GIBAULT AND VINCENNES xxxi bered that two documents are of questionable value, the Memoir of Clark, and the letter of Father Gibault to the bishop of Quebec. The first was written several years after the submission of Vincennes, at a time when Clark's mind had already become clouded by his intemperate habits. He confessed also that he could not find the instructions to Laffont; and from his statements it is probable that he did not have Laffont's letter to him.1 Father Gibault's emphatic denial of participation in the submission of Vincennes may be dismissed, because it was made to the Canadian bishop whose prejudices he wished to remove. If he was to re- enter the service of the Church in Canada, he was obliged to deny the grave charge of treachery which had been made against him by British officers. There remain Clark's letter to Mason, written a year and a half after the event, his letter of instructions, and Laffont's letter, the last two being contemporary documents. These are not contradictory and from them a consistent story can be drawn. The plan originated in Clark's mind; Father Gibault offered to go but refused to take the respon- sibility; Jean Baptiste Laffont was appointed the leader, managed affairs openly in Vincennes, and claimed the honor of the success; Father Gibault evidently preached peace and union to the citizens, probably used his personal influ- ence to promote the enterprise, and on his return made a written report to Clark, but denied that he was responsible for the submission of Vincennes. The action of Father Gibault, taken in connection with other information concerning him, throws some light on 1 There must remain some doubt as to whether the letter was ever delivered to Clark. Father Gibault may have been satisfied to have it in his possession for future use. I have considered the pos- sibility of the letter being written in 1786, when both the priest and Laffont were in Vincennes, but have dismissed this supposition, for it would not have suited Father Gibault's purpose to have the journal, which he kept, mentioned. He assured the bishop that he went simply to fulfill his priestly duties at Vincennes. The first sentence of the letter would have disproved this.
Page xxxii
xxxii ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS his character. The impression made on the mind of Clark by the personality of the priest was that of timidity. Al- though Clark's description of the fear into which the people of Kaskaskia were thrown by the appearance of his band on the night of July 4 and 5, 1778, may be discounted,1 still it is interesting that in that picture of terror the central figure was Father Gibault.3 Clark also assures us that when he was expecting an attack on Kaskaskia during the winter of 1778, "The priest of all men [was] the most afraid of Mr. Hamilton. He was in the greatest consternation, but determined to act agreeable to my instruction."3 On account of this timidity, Clark found an excuse to send him for security to the Spanish bank. Gibault's action in the mission to Vincennes bears out these impressions. He was ready to use his influence with the people, but preferred to throw the responsibility on another, so that, if the issue should be different from what was anticipated, he would still be able to use the argument to the British authorities, which we find that he actually put forward in 1786. III. Ecclesiastical Affairs Possibly students of Illinois history will find the last chapter of the volume, where are collected the ecclesiastical documents, the most interesting. Some of these letters have never been previously published, many have been printed in translation, and some few very recently in the original. The story is not yet complete, for there will be noted in these printed letters references to many others of which no trace can be found; and probably in the course ■ See Introduction to III. But. Collection!, ii. 2 Engtish, Conquest of the Northwest, i., 479. «/Mi., 43a.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page xxxiii
ECCLESIASTICAL AFFAIRS xxxiii of time some of these will be brought to light. Up to the present, however, historians have not had the opportunity of examining so many documents illustrating the subject as are collected in this volume. This is true even of Mr. Shea, who made use of the Archiépiscopal Archives in Quebec in preparing his Life of Archbishop Carroll, and whose account, as drawn from the letters of Father Gibault and the other priests of the West, has been the only infor- mation heretofore available concerning the contents of the western documents in that depository. In 1778 the diocese of Quebec included the Illinois country. In this remote corner labored Father Gibault, who had served the French on the banks of the Mississippi since 1768. In the following year he had been promoted to the dignity of vicar general for the Illinois region, which included at this time Vincennes, as well as the villages on the banks of the "Father of Waters." For the early period of his missionary service he had the assistance of the aged Father Meurin; but at that time the territory under the two priests was somewhat extended by the necessity of attending to the spiritual needs of the settlements on the western bank, belonging to Spain, which were without other spiritual guid- ance. When Father Bernard was appointed at St. Louis, he returned this favor of the Eastern Illinois priests by assist- ing occasionally at Cahokia. This had become the more necessary, for Father Gibault was then the only priest in British Illinois. After that territory was occupied by the troops of Virginia, Father Gibault seems to have preferred to make his headquarters at Ste. Genevieve, whence he crossed over to Kaskaskia, when he was needed.1 The story of his missionary labors has been frequently told, 1 Post, pp. 521, 541; Houck, History of Missouri, ii.f 309; Shea, Life of Archbishop Carroll, 545
This page contains an image.
Page xxxiv
xxxiv ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS best of all by Mr. Shea, who used extensively some of the material printed here, so that it is unnecessary to sketch again the career of this pioneer priest. The activities of the other priests of the Illinois country are not, however, so well known; and their story may give to the documents an added interest. Until 1785 the ecclesiastical situation in the West re- mained unchanged; nominally the territory was within the diocese of Quebec, and Father Gibault, although he had lost the confidence of his superiors, looked to the Canadian bishop for guidance. Events had occurred in Europe and the East, however, that were to alter the whole destiny of these pioneer communities. The Treaty of Paris had been signed, and the West had become the territory of a new state. This meant a readjustment of the Catholic Church in America to accommodate itself to the new conditions. On June 9,1784, there was issued at Rome by the prefect of the Sacred Congregation de Propaganda Fide a decree organiz- ing the Catholic Church in the United States as a distinct body and appointing the Reverend John Carroll prefect apostolic.1 Through an oversight no action was taken to change the former limits of the diocese of Quebec, so that the ecclesiastical relations of the West were not legally altered, in spite of the manifest intention of the authorities at Rome to extend the jurisdiction of the new prefect apostolic to the limits of the United States. Thus was laid the foundations of a conflict of jurisdictions which might have been of serious consequences, had not both the officials involved proved hemselves judicious, patient, and considerate. As soon as the priests, sent from Quebec and Baltimore, re- ported that the same territory was being served by both dio1 Shei, Life o) Archbishop Carroll, aij.
Page xxxv
ECCLESIASTICAL AFFAIRS xxxv ceses, there was an exchange of courteous letters between the bishop and the prefect apostolic. The whole subject was re- ferred to Rome; and the necessary correction, in accordance with the purpose of the act creating the ecclesiastical juris- diction in the United States, was made without diffi- culty.' Before this adjustment was accomplished, there had been sent, both from Canada and the United States, priests to take charge of the spiritual wants of the Northwest. In the summer of 1784 Father Payet went from Detroit to Vincennes, where he remained till September. Later the same priest was sent on a tour of inspection to Kaskaskia and Cahokia.2 Father Gibault, who in 1785 had left the Spanish territory in spite of advantageous offers and had taken up his residence at Vincennes, continued to look upon himself as the vicar general of the bishop of Quebec for this region, and it was some time before he learned of the changes in the ecclesiastical situation; and, when this was forced on his attention by the arrival of priests from the East, he was unwilling to submit to the new jurisdiction.* The new prefect apostolic seems to have been equally ignorant of the true situation in the Illinois region,4 but he realized the necessity of providing for the spiritual needs of his distant fellow Catholics. He therefore was glad, upon the recommendation of the French minister, to give a wan- dering Carmelite father, Paul de St. Pierre, who was willing to go to the West, such authority as he could, even before he received the official announcement of his appointment as 1 Consult the correspondence, printed post, 581 et sea. 2 Shea, Life oj Archbishop Carroll, 472, 473. 'Post, p. 546. Shea, Life o\ Archbishop Carroll, 469. 4OnFebruary 27, 1785, he wrote to Cardinal Antonelti, Prefect of the Propaganda, as follows: "The jurisdiction of the Bishop of Quebec formerly extended to some part of that region; but I do do not know whether he wishes to exercise any authority there now, that all these parts are subject to the United States." Shea, Life oj Archbishop Carroll, 358.
Page xxxvi
xxxvi ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS head of the Church in the United States.1 This fact estab- lishes approximately the date when this first priest to repre- sent in the West the new regime started on his long journey, for news of his own appointment reached Father Carroll on August 20, 1784, and he received the official notice on November 2Ô.2 There has been preserved very little material for the life of Father de St. Pierre, and his passage through the West and his sojourn at Kaskaskia and Cahokia can only be traced by chance mention in the letters of the time and in a few documents which bear directly on his career. From a letter of Mr. Carroll to the Congregation de Propaganda Fides we learn that he was a German monk of the Car- melite order lately from France; and that at the time he went West he did not possess sufficient testimonials to prove that he had the permission of his superior to remain in America. From other sources we learn that he was thirty- four years of age in 1785 and that he had served as chaplain in the French army in America.4 In one of the documents printed here, it is stated that his real name was Heiligenstein, which may have been the case, for names were frequently changed at the time of taking religious vows. Father de St. Pierre first made his way to Kentucky and arrived at Louisville in February, 1785, whence he sent a letter to Mr. Carroll. His delay among the Kentucky pioneers could not have been long, for a document proves that he was in Kaskaskia in July, and that he had been there long enough to participate in the local quarrels.6 The 1 See Bishop Carroll's statement, Shea, Life of Archbishop Carroll, 258; and also post, p. 592. 2 Shea, Life of Archbishop Carroll, 237, 243. ^February 27, 1785, printed in translation by Shea in his Life of Archbishop Carroll, 258. 'Post, p. 533, 547; Shea, £»/« 0/ Archbishop Carroll, 550, n. 3. 5 See post, p. 522 et scq.
Page xxxvii
ECCLESIASTICAL AFFAIRS xxxvii document in question does not shed much light on the priest's religious activities in the village, except in so far as it shows his willingness to interfere where he thought a wrong had been committed. It is more than likely that Father de St. Pierre sided with the French faction against John Dodge, who dominated Kaskaskia at the time; but there is no direct evidence for this. The turbulent condition of this village did not attract the priest; and the better-governed inhabitants of Cahokia, who had been trying to draw Father Gibault from Vin- cennes, were able to hold out inducements that determined Father de St. Pierre to make his residence in the more northern village. Here he watched over the spiritual needs of his small flock till 1789; and from all that can be learned of his ministry, he won the affections and confidence of his people. There is some evidence of a religious awaken- ing among the Cahokians, brought about by his min- istry, for they began to collect the scattered property of the mission, and in June, 1787, they reported that they had built a house for their priest and were erect- ing a new church at a cost of fifteen to sixteen thousand livres.1 The prefect apostolic had made no attempt to organize the western part of his territory, when he permitted Father de St. Pierre to go to the villages on the Mississippi; but this problem needed attention, and Mr. Carroll selected for this purpose a priest who seemed well qualified by education and training to undertake such a task; and yet Father Pierre Huet de la Valinière had experienced such a stormy career up to the time of his western mission that the prefect apostolic might well have hesitated before sending him. 1 Shea, Lijc oj Archbishop Carroll, 474; post, p. 564 This church is still standing.
Page xxxviii
xxxviii ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS He was born at Varade, France, on January 10, 1732.' After studying at the College of Nantes he entered the Grand Seminary of that city, November 22, 1752, whence he passed to Paris to continue his studies at the Seminary of Saint Sulpice. He was a man of great energy and earnestness in his profession, and preferred the missionary field to the quiet life of a parish priest in France. He, therefore, sailed for Canada, reaching Montreal on September 9, 1754. Here he was ordained priest by Bishop Pontbriand and began his activities in Quebec and its environs. Between May 22, 1759, and October 9, 1779, he served five different parishes, which, in the light of his later career, may prove an energy that was restless rather than per- severing. At the outbreak of the Revolutionary War he was serving the parish of L'Assomption; and here it was that he committed the act which resulted in a series of dis- asters for himself and no doubt fixed in the minds of many an unfavorable opinion of his character. When the American colonists invaded Canada, most of the priests under the lead- ership of the bishop remained faithful to the king and used their influence to hold their parishioners in obedience. Father de la Valinière always asserted that he also acted the part of a good subject; but the evidence that he was friendly to the American cause was sufficient to convince his bishop and General Carleton, the governor of Canada, of his guilt. His own explanation of his act is that he went to Sorel, at the peril of his life, to free from the hands of the invaders two fellow priests. If this is true, his act was one of mercy, not of treachery. Unfortunately for his reputation in Canada, he used his influence with a friend and follower of 1 The facts in the early life of Father de la Valinière are based on the sources published by Mar- tin I. J. Griffin in the Amer. Calk. Hist. Researches, New Ser., ii., No. 3. Mr. Griffin has collected and printed much material on the life of the priest, which supplements the various letters in this volume.
Page xxxix
ECCLESIASTICAL AFFAIRS mix Thomas Walker, one of the merchants most suspected of intrigue by the British authorities, to accomplish this end. From that time the priest was himself held in the greatest suspicion. In a letter to Bishop Briand, Vicar General Montgolfier writes: "Nevertheless I have had the honor of unburdening my heart to General Carleton regarding the last named [Valinière] whom I reckon among the most guilty and the least converted. His excellency gave me liberty to deal with him as I may judge fit. The dearth of priests forces me to employ him, though reluctantly. Should Your Lordship judge proper to withdraw him, and if means could be found of providing for the essential needs of that large parish, I would see therein no difficulty. But in that case, I would desire that subject to be removed from the country. He is thoroughly self willed, and, although of good morals, he would infallibly cause us some other trouble."1 Father de la Valinière gave sufficient evidence during his career of the quarrelsomeness and self-willfulness with which he was accused. There are records from several of his parishes to prove that he needlessly aroused the spirit of opposition among his parishioners, and that he was ever ready to enter into disputes with his superiors. He quarreled with the parish of St. Jean Port-Joly and in consequence threatened to sue the bishop and Seminary of Montreal for the reparation of his honor, property, and health. At St. Anne de la Pocatière new difficulties assailed him.2 His career at the Illinois is shown by the letters published in this volume to have been a stormy one.3 Later at Split Rock in New York his troubles with his parishioners resulted 1 Amer. Cath. Hist. Researches, sup. cit. 1 Amer. Cath. Hist. Researches, sup. cit. 3 Post, chs. xii., xv.
Page xl
xl ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS in the burning of the church and priest's house.1 In the case of a man of this character, who raises up enemies on all sides, it is particularly difficult to draw a just portrait. Since his opponents have written so much about him, it is only fair to quote the words which he himself puts in the mouth of Bishop Briand: "He [de la Valinière] is the priest of my diocese who knows best how to gain general affection. In every place, his zeal and wisdom have won for him the esteem of all. He possesses the gift of enrich- ing the church-treasury; he preaches well, and he deserves no reproach. His talent is almost unique; he distributes abundant alms and yet he is ever ready to give."2 Very possibly his faults of character, more than any act of his, caused the authorities, both ecclesiastical and civil, to continue the prosecution against him; at any rate, it was decided that the presence of the restless priest was a source of danger that should be removed from the province. Gov- ernor Haldimand, whose opinion of the priest was that he was, "fiery, factious and turbulent, no ways deficient in point of wit and parts," compelled him to embark for Eng- land in October, 1779." Even in England Valinière's troubles were not ended. He was kept a prisoner on board ship for a year, where his presence was very embarrassing to the ministry, since there was not sufficient proof of treason to detain or punish him.4 Finally he was permitted to depart for France. The vessel in which he sailed was wrecked and all his property lost, and he was forced to travel on foot to Paris, where he was received, but not enthusiastically, by his brother Sulpicians. In Paris he applied for service 1 Amer. Calh. Hist. Researches, sup. cit. 2 Quoted by Mr. Griffin in Amer. Calh. Hist. Researches, sup. cit. 3 Amer. Calh. Hist. Researches, sup. cit. * See Jackson's letter in Amer. Calh. Hist. Researches, sup. cil.
Page xli
ECCLESIASTICAL AFFAIRS jdi in the French army in America. Whether he received an appointment or not, the sources do not tell; but later we find him in Martinique and in San Domingo. After his recovery from an attack of yellow fever in the latter place, he sailed for Newburyport in Massachusetts where he arrived in the spring of 1785, and traveled thence by foot to Montreal. His second sojourn in Canada was a short one, but not without its storms. His appearance at Quebec caused consternation, and the bishop wrote on July 25, 1785, to M. Gravé, Vicar General: "What shall we do, my dear Vicar General, with this poor man? How well he bears out the portrait given by M. Montgolfier in his letter to His Honor the Lieutenant Governor; restless, turbulent, etc.? "He asks me for a certificate of good standing and behaviour so as to go wherever the Lord calls him. Can I give him one as long as he will hold a conduct so much opposed to my orders? I have forbidden him, as you are aware, to say Mass publicly until he has made arrangements with the government, and he has nevertheless officiated without having complied, for I don't see by all his verbiage how he can prove that His Honor, M. Hamilton, allows him to remain in this province. God grant that for the honor of the clergy it be not decided to allow him to stay." * The authorities found difficulties, however, in removing him again from Canada. The Seminary of Quebec offered him a pension of six hundred livres payable in Paris in re- turn for his rights in that institution. The deed was drawn up, but at-the last moment Valinière refused to sign.' Later he sought unsuccessfully to institute a suit against the Seminary, but the lawyers refused to plead without the 1 Amer. Calk. Hist. Researches, sup. cit. 1 So Mr. Griffin writes in his article, bat in a letter printed post, p. 558, Valinière asserts that be bad renounced his rights in the Seminary.
Page xlii
xlii ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS permission of the priests. Disgusted with his reception, Father de la Valinière in August, 1785, left Canada for the United States. Upon his departure the bishop of Quebec gave him a letter to the new prefect apostolic, who received the priest kindly, for recruits to the new diocese were greatly needed. During several months Father de la Valinière remained very uncertain as to his final destination. He served in Philadelphia occasionally; but his more permanent place of residence was New York, where he ministered to the French and French-Canadians. He threw himself with his usual enthusiasm into the organization of the new ecclesi- astical territory. His busy brain was already teeming with plans for the future development of the Church in America; seminaries were to be built, parishes established in every city. He planned to raise money to buy an abandoned Prot- estant church in the city of New York for a permanent home for his parishioners.1 When this latter plan failed, he turned his attention to the southern states and decided to start a mission in Charleston, but the tales of the un- healthy conditions prevailing in the city deterred him.2 Finally Mr. Carroll offered him the appointment of vicar general to Illinois, which was accepted; and he started from Philadelphia in April, 1786, on his journey westward." Such was the man who now came to reorganize the Catholic Church in the Northwest. The existing conditions in the country were sure to arouse to fighting heat the fiery blood that coursed through his veins; for, when he arrived in Kaskaskia, the village was cowering before that boldest and ablest of the American pioneers, John Dodge. < Shea. Lite of Archbishop Carroll, 18a, 28}. » Post, p. 560. > Amer. Calk. Hist. Researches, sup. cit.
Page xliii
ECCLESIASTICAL AFFAIRS xliii The French people had long lost all hope of an amelioration of their condition, and with the loss of hope had gone their spirit of manliness. With a few congenial companions Dodge was holding in submission the French people and the few officials who still continued to serve the stricken village. In the other villages the political conditions were somewhat better, particularly at Cahokia, but the eccles- iastical situation was such as to bring inevitably trouble upon the hot-headed vicar general. At Vincennes was Father Gibault who styled himself vicar general of the bishop of Quebec and whose long residence in the region had given him an understanding of his parishioners, among whom he could always collect a party to oppose an innova- tion. At Cahokia was Father de St. Pierre, a man who had already won the love and esteem of his flock, but who was not anxious to acknowledge the power of a superior and was only too prepared to take up the gauntlet for any in- fringement of his rights. The situation both political and ecclesiastical required the employment of the greatest tact and patience, in both of which qualities the new vicar general had shown himself conspicuously lack- ing. He did not wait long before rushing into a conflict. Valinière must have reached Illinois early in the summer of 1786 and almost immediately lent ear to rumors con- cerning his co-workers. He was always prone to believe the worst, so that enemies — and Father de St. Pierre had made several in Kaskaskia — had little difficulty in convincing him that the Cahokia priest had never taken vows. He quickly took up the charge; an investigation was held by himself, Father Bernard of St Louis, and others, with the result that the vicar general was obliged to acknowl-
Page xliv
xliv ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS edge his own mistake.1 Shortly after the close of this first dispute with the neighboring priest, Father de la Vali- nière regretted his act of exoneration; and he again made a bitter attack on St. Pierre in a letter to the people of Cahokia.2 The charges were concerning matters of church custom and discipline, about which the two priests dis- agreed; but between the lines one reads of the overweening pride, arrogance, and self-conceit of the vicar general, which caused him to see in the independence of an inferior an insult to his dignity. The people of Cahokia stood steadfast on the side of their champion and returned, on April 22, 1787, a spirited answer, wherein they asserted: "Such a discourse savours of irony & diffamatory libel, [and] together with the trouble and disunion you have spread in the villages of this shore since you are here are sufficient to determine us to declare to you that we will never receive or consider you as Grand Vicar of the Illi- nois." s So incensed were the people with this attack, that they turned for protection to the bishop of Quebec, whose superiority they acknowledged, and to whom they sent a copy of their answer. Thus this dispute ended in the severance of all connection in ecclesiastical matters between Kaskaskia and Cahokia. Exactly what was the relation existing between Father Gibault and the new vicar general is not revealed by the letters, but it is easy to believe that the former would not surrender his position as superior, which he had held for years, without a struggle; and there exists some evidence that the two men were not on friendly terms. Father de St Pierre after his conflict with the vicar general supported 1 Printed post, p. 548. Yet St. Pierre had not received full powers, post, p. 591. 1 The letter is printed post, p. 540. » Post, p. 554.
Page xlv
ECCLESIASTICAL AFFAIRS xlv the cause of Father Gibault. In a letter to Barthelemi Tardiveau, the Illinois agent to Congress, he urged the appointment of Father Gibault as vicar general, for he writes, "he has always exercised [it] with honor & satis faction to his brethren, our neighbors, & all the Christians."' Only once did Father de la Valinière mention Father Gibault in his correspondence, but that once is sufficient to show his opinion. A year after his arrival at Kaskaskia. he was already displeased with his position, and wrote on May 26, 1787, to the bishop of Quebec, begging to be per- mitted to return to Canada. Concerning the conditions in Illinois he wrote: "A Carmelite without letters of priest- hood has come here and is arousing the people to insurrec- tion, and M. Gibault continues always the conduct which is known to you." * Father de la Valinière was not the only priest who longed for an opportunity to leave the Illinois country to reside in Canada. In all the letters of Father Gibault to the bishop of Quebec, he begged the latter to recall him. Even Father de St. Pierre grew weary of the harsh life of the frontier and wrote a letter to a fellow priest in which he requested to be permitted to serve in the diocese of Quebec.3 The difficulties that Father de la Valinière created for himself in ecclesiastical affairs were nothing to the storm he aroused by his interference in politics. As was pointed out in the introduction to the Cahokia Records* his nature was such as to fit him to give such an impetus to the French opposition to the tyranny of John Dodge as to make their uprising successful; and it is probable that his influence was one of the principal factors that led to » Post, p. 569. 2 Past, p. 559. From Bishop Carroll's letter to Father Gibault (printed post, p. 591) it is evident that the latter thought that Valinière had made an unfavorable report concerning him. » Post, p. 533 « Pp. c, <
Page xlvi
xlvi ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS the political changes in Kaskaskia in 1786 and 1787, by which the faction of Dodge was overthrown and the French party placed in the ascendency. The assistance that the priest rendered at this time must have won for him a cer- tain amount of temporary popularity and have made the people ready, for a time, to tolerate his hasty temper and arbitrary rulings in church matters; but, when he con- tinued what they regarded as his ecclesiastical tyranny, and also attempted to prolong factional discord in politics, after the visit, in the summer of 1787, of the United States troops under Colonel Harmar, whose conciliatory action tended to harmonize the factions; and particularly when he opposed the proposal of Barthelemi Tardiveau to seek from the Continental Congress some reparation to the French for their sufferings by a grant of land, all the hot passions of the people, which had been somewhat restrained by their respect for the priestly office, broke out; and in the defence of their agent in Congress, they drew up that long list of grievances against Father de la Valinière, which is printed in this volume.1 They accused him of demanding money for licenses for the marriage of slaves, such as had never before been charged, and with preaching publicly against M. Janis for refusing to submit thereto; they claimed that he insulted his parishioners from the pulpit and called them Tories, rebels, and traitors; they said that he had encouraged the revival of "superannuated lawsuits;" that he was the leader of an unreconciled faction; that he had denied the sacraments to people simply because he hated them. The list of accusations is a long one, and should be read; but it should be remembered that it was made for the purpose of discrediting the statements made by the 1 PO'', P- 574-
Page xlvii
ECCLESIASTICAL AFFAIRS xlvii priest to Congress, wherein he opposed the grant of land to the French. To make their point the accusers have evidently included every act of the priest that could in any way be shown to be tyrannical and arrogant. Are these accusations true? That is difficult to deter- mine, but our judgment should be tempered with a knowl- edge of the situation in the Illinois villages. Kaskaskia had been without regular religious guidance for several years; and no doubt the conditions prevailing there might have been described in the words, probably extravagant, which Father Gibault used concerning Vin- cennes: "You know neither these regions nor the manner and vices of those who inhabit them. In Canada all is civilized, here all is barbarous. You are in the midst of justice, here injustice dominates. There is no distinction from the greatest to the least except that of force; of the tongue pernicious, calumniatory, and slander- ous; of crying very loud and giving forth all sorts of insults and oaths. Everybody is in poverty which engenders theft and rapine. Wantonness and drunkenness pass here as elegances and amusements quite in style. Breaking of limbs, murder by means of a dagger, sabre, or sword (for he who wills carries one), are common, and pistols and guns are but toys in these regions. And who has one to fear but the strongest? No commandant, no troops, no prison, no hangman, always, as in small places, a crowd of relatives or allies who sustain each other; in a word absolute impunity for these and ill luck for the stranger. I could name a great number of persons assassinated in all the vil- lages of this region, French, English, and Spanish without any consequence whatsoever; but I shall satisfy myself in naming two recently murdered: M. Guyon, the younger, who
Page xlviii
xlviii ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS studied at Montreal, killed his father-in-law with a gun at Kaskaskia; and, yesterday evening, one named Bellerose killed another man here with a knife. In a month I fear I may be able to count ten of these murders. In spiritual matters everything is the same or even worse. The most solemn feasts and Sundays are days given up to dances and drunkenness and consequently to quarrels and battles. With dissension in the homes, fathers and mothers in dis- cord with their children, girls suborned and ravished in the woods, a thousand other disorders which you are able to infer from these." * This picture is probably overdrawn, but in the eyes of a religious enthusiast such as Father de la Valinière, it would have exactly described his view of Kaskaskia. His position as priest demanded that he reform his parish, and had he been asked to defend himself against the accusations of his parishioners, his answer might well have been again in the words of Father Gibault: "Can the people who do such things endure a priest, who spares nothing in order to set the faults of these sinners before their very eyes, and openly rebukes them with vigor in private and public, with- out avenging themselves, at least by their tongues, for the restraint to which he reduces them and for the shame to which they are exposed, for often they believe themselves well hidden. On account of this they slander the priest in every way, treating him as they will without fearing anything." 2 The difficulties of determining the truth of the accusa- tions against Father de la Valinière arc very great, for they were made by men eager to discredit his testimony and 1 Pull, p. 5«J. 1 P">. P. 544
Page xlix
ECCLESIASTICAL AFFAIRS xlix irritated by his attempts at a reform of spiritual conditions. Still after all allowances are made for these circumstances, the memory of the succession of similar outbreaks in his former and later parishes makes us believe that he was peculiarly unfitted to minister to a pioneer community. Here as elsewhere his career leaves in the mind a picture of a man who was hot-headed, erratic, arbitrary, and tactless. His morality, his learning, and his generosity to the poor were not sufficient to counterbalance these faults. His inter- ference in political affairs had made impossible his further usefulness in Illinois, for only a handful of Frenchmen still devotedly followed his lead. He must have realized his failure, and with a heavy heart left the village in 1787, or the early part of 1788, to return to the East by way of New Orleans. The remaining years of his life do not interest us here. After serving for a time in New York State, he returned to Canada, for which he had a warm affection, and there he died in 1806.' At the time of the departure of the vicar-general, he left in his district the two priests with whom he had quarreled, Father Gibault at Vincennes, and Father de St. Pierre at Cahokia. Neither of these were to remain long on the American side. This was the period of the Spanish ascen- dency in the West, when the government of Spain was mak- ing every effort to spread her influence up and down the Mississippi. To this end she intrigued with Kentucky leaders, and was generous in her offering of land grants to all immigrants. Particularly did she tempt the French settlers in Illinois by offering and actually giving them gener- ous plantations in the Spanish territory. In order to make the attractions greater, Catholic priests were needed; and 1 Shea, Life »/ Arcilnihcf CmmO, 431, n. 4.
Page l
1 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS two ends would be served by securing those on the American side: Spain would supply her own needs and would leave the French settlements in the United States without spiritual guidance. Father de St. Pierre was the first to accept the offers and in 1789 took charge of the parish of Ste Genevieve, which he served till 1797.1 Father Gibault succeeded St. Pierre at Cahokia and for two years resisted the pressure of the Spanish authorities to secure his services. He was finally persuaded, in 1792, to follow many of his parishioners of Illinois across the river, where he became priest of New Madrid.3 A third priest, Father Ledru, sent by Mr. Car- roll to Illinois in 1789, scarcely stopped at all on the eastern shore, but passed to St. Louis the same year.3 Thus ended in failure the first attempt to organize the Catholic Church in the Northwest under the United States. The history of success belongs to a later period. 1 Post, p. 515. 8 Houck, Hist, ■t," ÎD Transacts 'Post, p. 515. 2 Houck, History of Missouri, ii., 303; Dunn, "Father Gibault, the Patriot Priest of the North- west," in Transactions of the 111. State Hist. Society, 1905, p. 33.

Page 1
KASKASKIA RECORDS 1778-1790
Page 2
2 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS From what passed between Mr Kennadyl & myself I was in hopes you would have sent a parcel of Horses and Breed* Mares (particularly the latter of the Spanish Breed) by Land to Pittsburgh or Philada. I have never since then heard from you. The Conveyance between New Orleans & Philad* is now blocked up by the misunderstanding between the Colonies & Brittain. We are contending for our Liberties & have hitherto succeeded beyond our Hopes, for Quebec is the only Port now occupied, by the British Forces in America. I have now to request that you will purchase & send to me at Pitts- burgh so as to arrive there next October or November, fifteen, twenty or Thirty of the best Mares & Geldings or Horses you can purchase & in April or May following as many more, always preferring breed* Mares or Fillies of the Spanish Breed & none to exceed 8 or 9 years old, for all which I will either allow you the Cost & Charges or what they shall be valued at on their arrival at Pittsburgh by two Persons to be mutually chosen by us or our Attornies, as you shall advise me by Silver Heels Return. I have some time since undertaken the disposal of the Lands in Indi- ana or the Retribution Grant, for the Proprietors;2 of whom your R. W. is one, & considerably interested. I suppose his Share will be near £3000 sterl*. They have appointed me Secretary & Receiver General 1 Patrick Kennedy probably went to Kaskaskia as an agent of Baynton, Wharton 8c Morgan as early as 1766, and soon entered into partnership with Richard Winston. In 1773 Kennedy made an expedition up the Illinois river in search of copper mines. The journal, which he kept, was printed by Gilbert Imlay, in his Topographical Description 0} the Western Territory 0} North America, 3d cd., Lon- don, 1797, and is reprinted in F. C. Hicks' reprint of Hutchins', Topographical Description of Virginia. etc., p. 12a. Kennedy was evidently one of the traders who sympathized with the American cause and probably used his influence among the French, yet on account of personal difficulties with his partner, he appears in the Court of Enquiry (post, p. 26) acting against his English speaking confederates. When George Rogers Clark appeared, Kennedy was immediately utilized and appointed to the commis- sary department. (" Bowman's Journal " in English, W. H., Conquest of the Territory Northwest of the River Ohio, i., 569. 2 At the outbreak of the Indian War known as the Conspiracy of Pontiac, many traders, who had rushed into the West with their goods after the fall of Fort Duquesne, suffered severe losses. They im- mediately petitioned General Gage and later theBritish Government for reimbursement, but not suc- ceeding, turned to the Indians, from whom Sir William Johnson had extracted a promise of retribution. At the Treaty of Fort Stanwix, in 1768,* grant of land, south of the Ohio, lying between the Little Ken- awha and the Monongahda was made to some of the traders by the Six Nations. The traders then established the Indiana Co. and sent Major Trent and Samuel Wharton to England to press their claims. In 1775, there was published in London a pamphlet entitled "View of the Title to Indiana, A Tract of Country on the River Ohio." This was reprinted in Philadelphia in 1776. After being ascribed to several persons, on the testimony of Du Simitière, Samuel Wharton is now accepted as the author; but another was associated with him, forEdward Bancroft writing to Benjamin Franklin on August 7,1775, claims that he and Wharton wrote it. Calendar of Franklin Papers in Amer. Phil. Society, i., 173. On October 1, 1776, the proprietors of Indiana sent a memorial on the subject of their claim to the General Assembly of Virginia, but their demands were rejected in 1779. The proprietors then brought their claims before Congress where they were sanctioned. A new company took the question in 1793 to the Supreme Court of the United States; but Virginia having secured the eleventh amendment to the Constitution, by which individuals of one state were prohibited from bringing suit against another state, the subject was closed. Ohio Co. MSS. in the Pa. Hist. Soc.; View of the Title to Indiana (Philadelphia, 1776); Va. State Papers; Winsor, Westward Movement, 96; Jour- nal of the House of Delegates of Va., June 9, 1779.
Page 3
ptj*jc MORGAN TO WINSTON, JULY 6, 1776 3of the Land Office, but the Troubles prevents my proceeding further at present especially as I am much engaged as Superintendant for Indian Affairs. But I think it may be well worth your R. W.s making a Trip this Way with Silver Heels; by him I will expect at least three or four of the handsomest breed* Mares you can purchase & send to me. Tomorrow I shall Set out on my Return to Pittsb* where I shall gen- erally reside & hope to hear very particularly from you if not see you with Silver Heels. I am with Regard Your most Ob' Serv1 Geo: Morgan.1 Whatever Remittances you can make in the Bill Way will be very acceptable. What could a few thousand w* of Pouder & Lead be purchased for at the Illinois? Do acquaint me with the prices of Dry Goods in general & encourage your Friends to send an Adventurer to Pittsburgh this Fall or next Spring of Stroud w1*1 sells there for £22.10. p. pices. 1 George Morgan, son of Evan, was born in Philadelphia in 1741, was educated at Princeton College, and joined, after graduation, the trading firm of Baynton and Wharton. The three partners were soon thrown into financial difficulties by their losses at the time of the outbreak of the Conspiracy of Pontiac. The firm determined to withdraw from the business of trading as soon as they should recover from their losses, and spend their energies in land speculation. In 1766 they took measures to bring their object about by sending their young partner to the Illinois country, where they expected to reap large profits by supplying the royal troops with provisions, trading with the French, and buying furs; and at about the same time they formed a company with Governor Franklin and Sir William Johnson to purchase land in the Illinois. Benjamin Franklin consented to associate himself with this land com- pany and became its representative in England, where his friendship with Lord Shelburne gave this Philadelphia association an advantage over other competitors. The failure of this plan and the par- ticipation of Samuel Wharton in the Walpole Company estranged his partners. At the treaty of Fort Stanwix the firm were among those traders reimbursed by the Indians by a grant of land south of the Ohio. This gave rise to the Indiana Company with which George Morgan was so closely associated for many years. Morgan spent several years in Illinois from 1766 onwards, leaving there in 1770 or early in the next year. The trade was not so successful as had been anticipated by the partners. Here Mor- gan became involved in disputes with the arbitrary Lieutenant-Colonel Wilkins, the commandant, and was thrown into prison. It was during the years he spent in Illinois that he gained that knowledge of the Indians that he used later in the interest of the revolting colonies. At the outbreak of the Revolutionary Warhe chose the side of his countrymen and was elected by Congress, April 10,1776, agent for Indian affairs in the mid IK- department. In this position he used his friendship with the Indians to counteract the British influence among the nations. Later Morgan was in the commissary department of the army and spent with Washington that trying winter at Valley Forge. After the Revolutionary War he turned his eyes westward again, and, after an unsuccessful effort to reach an agreement with the Continental Congress for land in the Illinois countrv,he accepted what he supposed was a large grant from the Spanish government and founded New Madrid. Although the settlement was extensively advertised and many had promised to join it, the scheme was brought to naught by the refusal of Governor Miro to confirm the grant. This refusal was largely due to the in- trigues of General Wilkinson. After this failure Colonel Morgan settled on his farm of Morganza in western Pennsylvania, where he died in 1810. Colonel Morgan was throughout his life fond of agricul- ture. Even when a young man he introduced more modern methods among the French of Illinois and distributed free fruit trees and vegetable seed to them. At Morganza he had a model farm which was admired by many visitors. Carter, C. E., British Régime in Illinois,Justin Winsor Prize, 1908; Houck, L., History o) Missouri, ii., 109 et seq; Harding, Julia Morgan, "Life of Colonel George Morgan," in Washington Observer, Mav 11,1904; Journal o\ the Continental Congress (consult Index); George Morgan's Letter Books in Carnegie Library, Pittsburg, and copy of, in Illinois State Hist. Library; MSS. (copies) collected from descendants in possession of editor; MSS. in Pa. Hist. Society; MSS. in Divi- sion of Public Records, Pa. State Library.
Page 4
4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Match Coats £30 & £35. Linnens such as used to sell at 2/6 & 3/- are now 6/- & 9/-. Powder & Lead in great demand. [Addressed:] A Mess" Messrs Winston & Kennady Neg*8 aux Illinois. [Endorsed:] N° 11. Daniel Murray to Governor Carleton, March 31, 1777. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 102.— Attested copy.] Illinois Ss'. To his Excel7 General Carlton Governour of the province of Canada &ca &ca Residing at Quebec.1 The Petition of Daniel Murray2 Agent for the Contractors Patrick Kennedy, and Thomas Bentley3 of Kaskaskias Merchants Humbly Sheweth That Since Capt Hugh Lord's departure * from this Country & Mr De Rocheblave5 being vested with the Governmt we your Humble Peti- tioners, and his Majesty's most Faithful Subjects find to our bitter Grief our Liberties Trampled upon and Justice in all cases Refused us, and when we presume to argue on Such injustice, the Said De Roche- blave cuts the mater Short by Informing us that Such is the Laws in France which he orders us to follow, Saying he knows no other; that we being the only English merch^ or Inhabitants Residing in this place 1 This petition was published by Judge Bcckwith in the ///. Hist. Collections, i., 295, and is also in Mich. Hist. Collections, xix., 331. The copies were taken from the copy in the Haldimand Collection in the Canadian Archives. A comparison with the above copy shows many differences, some of which are no doubt due to the mistakes of the French scribe who made this transcript in the Court Record, but others are of such a character that the conclusion must be that Bentley, whose name is signed to the copy in the Haldimand Collecton, made certain changes in the petition before sending it to the gov- ernor of Canada. Wemay regard, thercfore.thecopy hereprinted asan older draft of the petition, in spite of the many faults due to the French scribe. A few omissions have been supplied from the Haldi- mand copy. 3 Daniel Murray was brother of the better known William Murray, who went to the Illinois Coun- try in 1767 as the agent of the Philadelphia firm of Franks and Co. Later the Murrays formed a part- nership with Louis Viviat of Kaskaskia and all three were interested in the purchase of land from the Indians by the Illinois and the Wabash Land Companies. Daniel Murray was in Kaskaskia at the time Clark occupied the village and gave that officer decided help. He remained in Kaskaskia during the following years and was shot in a quarrel over money affairs. Amer. Slate Papers, Public Lands (consult Index under Illinois and Wabash Land Co.); George Morgan, Letter Book, copy in 111. State Hist. Library; Kaskaskia MSS.; post, p. 428. 3 Consult Index of ///. Hist. Collections, ii. and of this volume. 4 Captain Hugh Lord was the last British officer commanding in Illinois. He was appointed June 11, 1772, and withdrew with his troops in May, 1776. It was during his command that Fort de Chartres was abandoned at the command of General Gage. Captain Lord gave great satisfaction to the French inhabitants. Kaskaskia AtSS.; Amer, and W. I. Papers in Public Record Office, vol. 116; Mason, E. G., Rocheblave Papers, in Chicago Hist. Society's Collections, iv. 6 Rocheblave was the agent left in charge of British interests in Illinois by Captain Lord, when the latter left the country. See///. Hist.Collections, ii. (consult Index); Mason, E.G., Philip Rocheblave and the Rocheblave Papers, in Chicago Hist. Society's Collections, iv.
Page 5
MURRAY TO CARLETON, MARCH 31, 1777 5 we take the liberty to Represent to you our unhappy Situation and to lay our Grievances before you hoping from you a Speedy and Imediate Redress, for without Such it will not be possible for an Englishman to Remain in this Country as the said De Rocheblave is daily imposing upon us by denying us the Justice which by law and Equity we have a right to Demand at his hands both for the Security of our Property as as well as our Persons, neither of which we look upon to [be] safe under our Government as Englishmen and English Laws are to our very great Mortification dispised by the public in General and apears to be so by him the said Rocheblave in Particular. That with Such Inhabitants as we happen to have any Controversy respecting accts or demands [, un- avoidable in business, he acts in the first place as Counsel] for such against us, and afterward as Judge. He one day decides an affair in our favour and immediately after Issues out a Sentence for the opposite party — that contrary to our wise Constitution and to the great Detriment of the Merchants here he acts in the Capacity of a trader buying and Selling goods both by wholesale & Retail & has been known to make Proposals for the purchasing of a Cargo to a very Considerable amo* which he would have Effected had his Credit been equivalent thereto — public advertisem* with Respect to Property he orders in most arbitrary maner to be torn down which he has been known to do twice in one day. He forbid the trading of liquor to the Savages under the Severe Penalty of two Hundred dollars ' and those very Savages Notwithstanding such orders being constantly Drunk when in the Village upon an enquiry made accused him Even to his face of being the Very person that Intoxi- cated them with Rum or Taffia which they Said he sold unto them for Beaver and Otters &c &c. Such is his partiality in favour of the French that upon the approach of savages coming to war last Spring he sent out a party of men under French coulors to know the design of their coming, that Such partiality is not to be wondered at when we consider the said Rocheblave on this country's being taken possession of by the English abandoned his property here and prefered the Spanish Governm* to ours — taking the oaths of Allegiance thereto — That Tis not without the Cognizance of any person in this Country so far as we can Learn that he the said Rocheblave has ever been qualified by taking the Oaths of Alle- giance or Supremacy previous to the holding of such an Office. That ■The copy in the Haldimand Collection read» "two thousand dollars." Concerning all these accusations, see document printed on p. 18.
Page 6
6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS abstracted from all manner of Prejudice whatsoever we do not look upon the said Rocheblave, from his Behaviour at all times and his Partiality against us on all Occations to be by any means as Englishman's Friend having endeavored to throw Aspertions on the Charrecter of some of us without the Least Foundation and merely intended to Veil his own Ini- quitous Practices openly countenancing Known Villains in opposition against us & even Encouraging Savages to Rob our Boats whose Sole motive was that of Trading amongst them in their winter Hunting Grounds. We humbly hope that your Excellency will be Kind Enough to Com- passionate our Situation and Grant us Such Redress and that in the most Speedy manner possible as British Subjects have a right to Expect at the hands of an English Governour, and your Petitioners as in Duty bound will Ever Pray, dated at Kaskaskias the 31st March 1777. Et Plus Bas Est Ecri Je Soussigné declare reconnoitre que le présente requête m'a été présentée Et lue pour que J'eusse a la signer Ce que jai toujours refusé constamment n'ayant trouvé rien de juste En foy de quoy j'ai signé pour valoir ou Besoin sera aux Kaskaskia le llme 7bre 1777. signé Patt Kennedy * Daniel Murray to Thomas Bentley, May 25, 1777. [B. M., 21845, f- 4-— A- L- S-T Dear Sir, Yours I received this day from M™ Bentley. I am no way deceived in my Opinion of McCarty's Integrity. You were hardly past the Bar- rier, (after my Return from the Fort from Dinner) when my good Friend Kennedy accompanied by Drouart came with a Message from Viviat desiring I should come and assist him and other Arbitrators assembled without my knowledge or Approbation to settle the Books, which I refus'd as he had hitherto Acted without Consulting me. On the mor- row I received a paper by our famous Notarys which I refus'd and threw 1 Translation: And below is written, I. the undersigned, declare that the present petition was pre- sented and read to me in order that I should sign, a thing that I have constantly refused to do, since I have found nothing just therein. In faith of which I have signed to validate tb* above wherever there shall be need. At Kaskaskia, September n, 1777. (Signed) Patrick Kennedy. 'This has been printed in Mick. Hist. Collections, xiz., 417, from a copy in Canadian Archives. » François Carbonneaux began acting as notary in Illinois in the British period. After the occupa- tion of the country by Clark and the establishment of the court at Kaskaskia by John Todd, Carbon- neauz was elected clerk. He held this appointment until the court was dissolved, in the fall of 1783, by
Page 7
MURRAY TO BENTLEY, MAY 25, 1777 7 after him, on his being gone I perused it, and found it was a demand of some Books I have in my possession without which the arbit" could do nothing, tho' they were two days, almost, closely Employ'd, so was forced to Adjourn it till my Brothers arrival.1 Next day Viviat2 Pro- tested ag* my proceedings but our Noty from his Receptn the day before was afraid to bring me the Copy of the Protest, but sent it by a child seald like a Letter. I have heard nothing since nor have I spoke with our Command* since the day of your Departure. This day, Charle- villes3 Batteau arrived but Louis is Dead at Orleans — As to News I hear of none yet, they have been too busy unloading today, nor have I as yet got any Letters, they have Bro' very little Merchd* being obliged to Ballast the Batteau with Bags fill'd with Earth. Your Mullatress is come up her passage, being f. 30 paid by your Cousin Topham. There is two Packets from London Inclos'd in a few lines from Miller, wherein he says that he wrote to Morgan and Mather an Acco1 of the Articles you want and that he would have sent your Negro at this time but that the Batteaux were all full but that he will send him by Winston which is the chief part of his Letter, he does not so much as acknowledge the Receipt of the Peltry you sent him. Pray God that Winston has not plaid the Rogue. As to your being Complain'd of already to Gen1 Carleton, you need not Dread that, for since your Departure Roche- blave drew out a complaint ag' you and wanted all the principal Inhabitants here to sign it, which they Absolutely Refused to do Richard Winston. He then accompanied Winston to Virginia to present the case of the Winston party to the state government. Later he petitioned the Continental Congress. (See post, p. 360.) He reap- peared again in Illinois, but does not appear to have taken an active part in political affairs. When Governor St. Clair reached Kaskaskia, however, Carbonneaux was again acting as clerk and notary and delivered to the new government the archives. Later he went to the Spanish territory, where his name appears as an inhabitant of St. Charles. III. Hist. Collections, ii. (consult Index); Houck, Louis, Hist, o] Missouri, 87, n. 18. 1 William Murray was for some time agent of Franks & Company at Fort Pitt. He first appeared in Illinois in 1767 as the representative of that firm and later entered into partnership with Louis Viviat of Kaskaskia. He acted as agent for the Illinois Land Company which bought in 1773 from the Indians two large tracts of land on the Illinois and Ohio Rivers. This purchase was promptly disallowed by the British government; but after the outbreak of the Revolutionary War and the occupation of the Northwest, Murray presented to the Virginia Assembly a memorial in behalf of himself and associates and later to the Continental Congress. It has been impossible to follow Murray's career, but he evi- dently settled in Kentucky, and his was the voice that was raised in 1798 against the Kentucky Resolu- tions. Kaskaskia MSS.; George Morgan, Letter Book; Va. State Papers, i., 314; Amer. State Papers, Public Lands (consult Index under 111. & Wabash Land Co.); III. Hist. Collections, ii. (consult Index). 2 Louis Viviat was a prominent French Trader during the British period. He was appointed a member of the court erected by Lieutenant-Colonel Wilkins in 1768 and joined in the opposition to that commandant. For his connection with Murray and the Wabash Land Co., see previous note. His sup- port was given to the British interests against the American traders. His death occurred in the fall of 1777. Kaskaskia MSS. 3 Biographical notices of all names appearing in the census of 1787 will be found in the foot-notes to that document. See post, p. 414, n. a.

This page contains an image.
Page 8
8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS particularly the Charlevilles Bienvenue Laffont Plassy Janist1 &c. No Doubt but your Friends Viviat Cerre and La Chance might have done it but they are too few to Countenance it when so many Refus'd to do it,2 so that I fancy it will not be sent, however upon a change of Government I wont fail to Expose his Villainous Intention, as to the Hunters you write of there is three of them, one of which was here before, his name Benjn Lynn but they bring no news that I can here of worth your hearing5. I shall write you again if I have an Opportunity and as to my Assist" at home in your Absce you may fully Depend upon it for I have not one Drop of Irish Blood in my Veins a promise with me is sacred. Mrs Bentley is well, desires her Love and Duty to you and prays Earnestly for your speedy and Safe Return, in which prayer Sincerely Joins Your assured Friend & Hble Serv* Dan Murray. Kaskaskias, 25th May, 1777. N. B. I forgot to inform you that there is a great Mortality at Orleans by the small-pox. DonPiernass only lost 3 Children and 15 Slaves. [Addressed:] To Mr Thomas Bentley on his Journey to Canada Recomended to the care of Mr Isaac Levy * at Caho. Thomas Bentley to Daniel Murray, August 1, 1777. [B. M., 21845, f. 6. — Copy.8] MissiLAMACKiNAC, the i Aug 1777. Dear Sir, I hope this will find you on your Return from Post Vincent & doubt not but you will have explained the nature of our Complaints against 1 All these men joined Clark and gave him cordial support, when he appeared. For biographical notices of them, consult Index. 2 Charges were, however, made against Bentley and he was arrested. See post, p. 18. a These were the spies sent by George Rogers Clark. Clark informs us that he sent two men, S. More and B. Linn. Murray's statement that there were three seems to imply that Bentley had not expected that number, and this may indicate some previous communication between Bentley and Clark. See Introduction. The third probably joined Clark's spies by invitation or of his own accord. Clark's Memoir, in English, W. H., Conquest of the Territory Northwest of the River Ohio, i., 467; also letter in Amer. Hist. Rev., viii., 49a; ///. Hist. Collections, ii., xxxix. • For the little that is known of Isaac Levy of Cahokia, see III. Hist. Collections, ii. (consult Index). •This has been previously printed in ///. Hist. Collections, i., 399, and in Mich. Hist Collections, xix.t 324. In both cases the copy was made from copy in Canadian Archives. The variants are of little importance. The document is reprinted here for the convenience of comparison with the record of the Court of Enquiry, post, p. 18.
Page 9
BENTLEY TO MURRAY, AUGUST i, 1777 9 Mr Rocheblave to Govr Abbot * as you proposed. Little did I think it would become so very necessary being utterly ignorant of the mischief this man was hatching against me. You will plainly perceive that he has done this in order to get the start of me thinking by such means to throw discredit upon my report. You see what Villainy the mind of man is capable of, but what indeed may we not expect of a man like him after having taken the Oaths of Allegiance to the three Kingdoms of France Spain & Great Britain; such a man would not in my opinion hesitate on the arrival of the Americans to enlist himself under their Banner & even to be one of the first that would do so. You must know that I am now a prisoner, Rocheblave having accused me of such correspondence with the Americans as occasion'd Major de Peyster who commands this place to put me in Custody on my arrival here, which he informs me he does by orders from Govr Hamilton at Detroit. I am therefore in Consequence thereof confind to the Fort nor am I yet acquainted with the particulars of my accusation. Bomer2 I be- lieve is my accuser in Conjunction with Rocheblave & you will know how they both stand affected towards me, that nothing will be want- ing on their parts to compleat my Ruin. However I rely entirely on my Innocence to extricate me from this Dilemma as God Almighty who knows my inmost thoughts and actions knows likewise I do not deserve such treatm*. I beg the favor that on receipt of this you will write a Letter to the Governor at Post Vincent desiring he will forward the same to the Gov- ernor at Detroit wherein you will please to mention everything you can recollect which has passed between us on the North American subject & particularly with respect to the barges which went down the Ohio last Autumn as you can evidence for me that on the arrival of such news at Kaskaskias finding that Mr Rocheblave did not immediately send off an express to give information thereof I mentioned to you that it would be necessary for us to send one in case he did not, soon after which he dis- patched one himself. You must recollect also I often repeated to you how happy we were to be out of the way & in a Country where we could act a neutral part. You well know my mind on the subject & how much 1 Appointed recently lieutenant-governor of Vincennes, where he remained only a short time during 1777. Dunn, J. P., Indiana, Hi. » Louis Bomer had been for a time notary at Vincennes. Later be attached himself to Bentley and served as hia clerk. See post, p. 30.
Page 10
io ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS I abhorred the thoughts of interfering on either side ever blaming the obstinancy & violence committed on both sides as also how much I wishd for the arrival of Kings troops often expressing my surprise that such were not sent to prevent the Americans sending gunpowder &c. up the Mississippi and that you must recollect to have heard me often repeat that I had rather see a Hundred Kings Troops arrive than two Thousand N. Americans. You know the Injustice done me by Rocheblave on many ocasions which you will please to explain at large as also the Cause of our intended Complaints to General Carlton against him & the Petition on the sub- ject which we should have sent had not Kennedy after promising refused to sign it.1 You were present when he decided the affair of Bomer's note to Bazille La Chappelle in my favor & you were also present when a few days after he sent Mr La Chance with a Party of men to seize for the payment notwithstanding I appealed from his Judgement to the Gover- nor who was soon expected at Post Vincent and offerd security. You likewise know that he refused to oblige Mr Viviat to give an account of his Transactions with Bomer that I might know the value receivd of Bomer's note givei. to Mr Viviat in my name for fourteen hundred & odd Livres payable in Beaver at five Livres a pound which he seiz'd for the payment. You know perfectly well that he set aside my Mortgage upon Bomers house which was duly recorded in the Secretary's books & sold the House for the Payment of Jandron's Mortgage upon the same which was not registerd until several months after mine, as also that he ordered to be torn down two Advertisements which I put up to the public in one day protesting against the sale. Omit not to mention Bomer's villainy to me and how much be was countenanc'd ever afterwards by Rocheblave as also how he countenanc'd Girault2 in his Behaviour per- mitting him to stay at Kaskaskias several days after I applied to him to oblige him to return to his Duty. I am not conscious that any part of my Conduct will admit of an ambiguous Interpretation & must imagine tis the Corn which was taken from Mathews that he wants to make a handle of. Some Hints have been given me that he woud even insinuate I have supplied Gun- powder &c. to the Americans. My Invoice will shew the Quantity of Gunpowder & Guns which I 1 For this refusal, see ante, p. 6. 'Jean Cirault had recently arrived from England and New York. Biographical sketch in III. Hist. Collations, ii., 20, n. a.
Page 11
BENTLEY TO MURRAY, AUGUST i, 1777 11 brought up with me. Hamilton can prove that I sold forty Guns to Motard in March last & that I left a considerable Quanty on my coming away as also what Gunpowder I left behind me & the remainder being to the best of my Recollection little more than three Hundred weight will shew whether it was too much to be expended for my winters trade amongst the Savages as well as at Kaskaskias & at Kahokias where in fact I sold the most. I beg you will enclose at the same time a Copy of my letter left with you wherein I instructed you to clear up the matter about the Corn immediately upon the arrival of Captain Johnson' by Mathews & Mucklemurray's * affidavits. I do not know if you were privy to Mr Rocheblaves offering me three Hundred weight of Gun- powder for Sale last Autumn, if you have knowlege thereof 'twill be right to mention it in your letter. I cannot call to mind whether it was before or after he sold some Gunpowder to Mr Beletre. Hamilton can prove that I left orders in case of the arrival of the Americans to hide my goods in Trunks which will shew I had not the least intention to support them — on the contrary Mathews and Ham- ilton can prove that notwithstanding these Americans sent me orders by the former to give no more Gunpowder to the Delaware Indians, I have sold them Powder constantly since in opposition to their orders. Please to enclose Hamilton & Mathews Affidavits in your Letter as also Mucklemurrays shoud he be there & when you have finished your Letter you will do well to make Oath that the Contents of such a date is a just and true relation of facts. This you will be kind enough to ac- company with your Letter & of all such Affidavits please to take Duplicates or even Triplicates for fear of accidents. I am extremely sorry to give you this trouble but am so well convinced of your good will to serve injurd Innocence that the nature of my case will sufficiently appologize to you for the same. All I wish is that I may be at liberty to return immediately to Kas- kaskias that I may avail myself of such evidences as may be necessary to clear up my Character which you well know I can do without the least Difficulty. Shoud Governor Johnson be arrivd you can easily convince him how falsely I am accused when Rocheblave's malice will appear in a most conspicuous light to every impartial mind. I know •Matthew Johnson was appointed lieutenant-governor of the Illinois Country at about this time but he never made his appearance, although it is evident from the above that he was expected. Can. Archives, B. vol. 46, p. 95. 'Probably William Murray.
Page 12
12 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS my poor Wife ' will be much afflicted at my Situation & you may readily imagine how much I suffer from such a thought. I beg you will endeavour all in your power to encourage her to keep up her spirits that my affairs may not suffer from any other Cause than that which my absence alone can occasion; no person knows better than herself how innocent I am of everything that can be laid to my charge; but what is not Villainy capable of & more expecially placed in a Man like Rocheblave who does not want for understanding sufficient to put a gloss upon actions of his own however black & to render criminal such as are most innocently intended in others however I tru[st] in God that he will release me from the hands of my Enemies & that he will doubly load them with that Infamy which they woud so unjus[tly] heap upon me, such being the reward due to their actions. I am, dear Sir, Your very obliged hbIe Serv*.2 [Addressed:] Mr Dan1 Murray at Kaskaskias. [Endorsed;] N° 7. T. B. Defense of Thomas Bentley, August 1, 1777. [B. M., 21845, f. 10.— A. D. S.5] Whereas I Thomas Bentley of the Village of Kaskaskias in the Illi- nois Country Merchant stand accused of having sent Corn or other Pro- visions to assist the American Boat' in coming up from New Orleans last Spring loaded as was said with Gunpowder &c, or of entertaining a Criminal Correspondence with the Americans or some of their Party or Parties interessd in their present unhappy disputes & whereas eighteen Bags of Corn were taken by force by one William Linn5 who said he was Captain of such Boat from James Mathews one of my Clerks who was trading the same with the Delaware Indians at or near the mouth of the Ohio which alone can have given rise to such a Report. 1 Bentley married Marguerite Bauvais, in 1777. She belonged to one of the wealthiest and most important families of Kaskaskia. Kaskaskia MSS., Court Record. 3 There is no signature. 'This has been printed in the Mich. Hist. Collections, xix., 328, from copy in Canadian Ar- chives. 4 This refers to the boat in charge of Captain George Gibson and Lieutenant William Linn, who left Fort Pitt, in July, 1776, to purchase gunpowder at New Orleans. In this they were successful. For other information on Bentley's connection with this expedition, see postt p. 34, and Introduc- tion. In Thwaites and Kellogg, Revolution on the Upper Ohio, 226, is a good account of the undertaking. * See previous note.
Page 13
BENTLEY'S DEFENSE, AUGUST i, 1777 13 I do in consequence thereof declare that the following Circumstances relative thereto are the real truth, Viz*: That such Corn was never intended by me to be sold traded or deliverd to any American Boat loaded with Ammunition whatsoever but to the Delaware Indians only having on the contrary given directions to avoid the American Boat on her coming up by running my Boat up some River until they had passd. That I had followed this trade of sending down Provisions ever since the Beginning of last Summer & that these Eighteen Bags of Corn were a part of the Third or Fourth Cargo of Provisions (I cannot justly recollect which) that I had already sent down for the Delaware trade & such of the white People as come to the Illinois & fit themselves out for hunting in that Neighborhood most of whom were in my debt & that the loss of this corn was a great detriment to me as it oblig'd my Clerk to come to Kaskaskias for a fresh supply of that article & leave his Indian debts behind him no part of which I had receivd on my coming away the middle of May — last. That tis a common trade both from Kaskaskias & Post Vincent to send down Corn Flour &c. to the Savages wintering in that Neighbor- hood & that there was one or two Boats from Post Vincent as my Clerk informd me trading with the Delawares in like manner at the same place where he was & that when the said James Mathews came to Kas- kaskias & informd me of their having taken this Corn I was very angry with him for having sufferd them to take it at the same time blaming him for not having got out of their way when he informd me that he Was obligd to give it not being strong enough to resist them & that they passd themselves upon him for a Party of Hunters until such time as they had him in their Power. That I only brought Six Hundred weight of Gunpowder with me last Summer from New Orleans with Two Hundred & odd Guns. That I left behind & brought with me upon this Voyage very near one half of my Gunpowder & the other half was sold to Indians at my dif- ferent Stores at Kaskaskias, Post Vincent & Kahokias. That a great part of my Guns remain still unsold at Kaskaskias & that the greatest part of what I did sell was to Spanish Subjects at Paincour & Misère.1 That I arrived from New Orleans the 19th July, 1776 since which I had not made any Purchase of either Guns or Gunpowder, Mr de Roche1 St. Louis and Ste. Genevieve.
Page 14
14 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS blave himself having offerd me three Hundred-weight of Gunpowder for Sale at a Dollar p. Pound which I refused the buying of. That at the time of the News arriving that two Barges were gone down to bring up Amunition I proposed to Mr Daniel Murray Agent for the Contract- ors that we shoud send off an Express to give Information thereof that a stop might be put thereto. That I have not received any Letter from any person whatsoever on the Continent of America to the Northward of Pensacola during the last two years to my Knowledge or held any kind of Correspondence or had any dealings whatsoever either directly or indirectly with any of His Majestys Enemies or their adherents Know- ing them to be so: That Mr de Rocheblave having spread the report of my having sent this Corn on purpose for the Americans before my coming away I left a Letter with the before-mentioned Mr Murray requesting that he woud on the arrival of Mr Johnson (who tis said is appointed Governor of the Illinois Country) have the depositions of Mathews & others taken in order to clear me from the Infamy of such a Report. Now I do most sincerely & solemnly believe that these aspersions thrown upon my Character are nothing but the effects of Mr de Roche- blave's malice in order to prevent Gen1 Carlton or any other Governor or Commanding Officer to whom I might apply for redress from paying a due attention to my complaints against him for the various acts of injustice which he has done me since my arrival last from New Orleans some of which I will here enumerate with such Circumstances as are necessary to shew the part which Mr de Rocheblave acted & partic- ularly so far as relates to myself. A short time after my arrival from New Orleans he made many dif- ferent proposals to me for the purchasing of part of my Cargo & at length of the whole which woud have amounted to a very considerable sum. I waved the matter for a variety of reasons. Finding I woud not dispose of my Cargo to him he employ'd others to try to make the Purchase from me & he was as they informed me to be connected with them under the Rose. He issued out a sentence to make me pay fifty Dollars on an accusation laid against William Hamilton one of my Clerks for having given a Bottle of Liquor to an Indian at a certain time mentioned & that a person of the name of Mucklemurray was said to be present. Hamil- ton swore positively that it was false & Mucklemurray likewise as also that if he had done so it was in opposition to my orders — nevertheless
Page 15
BENTLEY'S DEFENSE, AUGUST i, 1777 15 he woud still persist that I shoud pay. Notwithstanding his repeated orders against giving Liquor to the Savages they were continually drunk when in the Village which occasiond me to enquire who it was that sold the Liquor to them when the Savages themselves informd me it was Mr de Rocheblave who traded it to them in the night for Beaver & Otter skins & forbid their coming to him in the day time telling them that so long as they said nothing about the matter he woud constantly supply them. This Story being rumourd abroad he calld the Indians to account about it (two of them) when the one accused him of it to his face & the other said that he said so out of a Joke for which he put them both in Irons and being enraged still the more against me on that account threatned to make me pay the Fine double. One Bomer who had acted as Clerk & Attorney for me in my absence at New Orleans gave a note of hand in my name to Mr Viviat a Merchant in the place for fourteen Hundred & odd Livres payable in Beaver at five Livres the Pound. On my arrival from New Orleans Bomer at my request put up an adver- tisement to the Public signifying that all such to whom he had given such Notes Bons &c. of any kind to present the same imediately. Mr Viviat never presented the Note until a long time afterwards, I believe near three Months & long after Bomer was dismiss'd my Service. I told him I woud pay it if he woud prove the value receivd & give me a particular account of all his transactions with the said Bomer in my absence. Mr Viviat positively refused to tell me on what account the Note was given as also to render me any account of his Transactions with Bomer as my Clerk. I petitioned Mr de Rocheblave at two or three different times to oblige Mr Viviat to render me such an Account setting forth that I had reason to suspect the Note was unjustly given by Bomer & unjustly receivd on the part of Viviat, yet he took no Notice of my Peti- tion but seizd the Beaver for the payment. This same Bomer gave a Note of hand likewise on my name & at a time I was upon the spot to Bazille La Chappelle for Eighteen Hundred & odd Pounds of Flour. In vain I represented to him that no man had a right to give a Note of hand in my name when I was present myself. Yet notwithstanding that he woud not oblige Bomer to pay it who was then in the place but seizd my Flour for the amount when but a very few days before in the presence of Mr Murray he acquitted me from the note, appologizing for his having given me so much trouble about it. I protested & appealed S
Page 16
i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS from both his sentences & even offerd security all which he paid no regard to. I had a Mortgage upon a House to a much greater amount than the Value of such House which Mortgage I had recorded in the Office ac- cording to Colonel Wilkins's public orders — it appeared some time afterwards that one Jandron had likewise a Mortgage & of a prior date but had never been registerd. He set my Mortgage aside & orderd the House to be sold for the Payment of Jandron's Mortgage. I protested against the sale by a public advertisement upon the Church door which was torn down by his orders twice the same day. I had a considerable account against the said Mr de Rocheblave & after waiting long for the Payment he produced me an account wherein he charg'd me amongst other articles so much for Passports & having acted as a Justice of Peace in marrying me he made me pay Fifty Livres for having performed the Ceremony. I do hereby declare that the foregoing relation is in every respect just & true to the best of my Knowledge & belief in making oath thereon on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God who know[ing] the Hearts & minds of men knows at the same time I am innocent of what is laid to my Charge. Missilimacinac the Ist Aug1 1777. T. Bentley. Juré devant moi J. S1 Campan nre ce 5 Aoust 1777 Sworn before me Philip Dejean Justice of the Peace for the Dis- trict of Detroit this 15th day of August 1777. P. Dejean. [Endorsed:] N° 5. T. B Report of L1 Govr Hamilton l August 15, 1777. [B. M., 21845, *■ 8-—Copy.2] Mr Thomas Baitly [sic] of Kaskaskîas in. the Ilinois Country, having been accused to me by Monsieur de Rocheblave Commandant of that 1 Henry Hamilton was of Irish descent, entered the army in 1754, and was commissioned lieutenant in 1756. He served in the French and Indian War. In 1775 he was appointed lieutenant-governor of Detroit, where he arrived on November 9th. He immediately gave his attention to arousing the Indians against the Americans. After Clark had won Vincennes Hamilton retook it in the fall of 1778; but the village was recaptured by Clark the next February. Hamilton was sent to Virginia, where he suffered very harsh treatment as retaliation for similar treatment of American captives by the British. He was exchanged in 1780. He then visited England and returned to Canada as lieutenant-governor, 1782-85. Later he was governor of Bermudas and of Dominica. He died at the latter place in 1796. Adapted from Wis. Hist. Collections, xviii., 371, n. 97. 2 This has been printed in the Mich. Hist. Collections, xix., 337, from copy in Canadian Ar- chives.
Page 17
HAMILTON'S REPORT, AUGUST 15, 1777 »7 Country, of having supported the cause and interest of the rebels, by set- ting their cause in the most favorable light, Magnifying their Strength, resources and connections I have thought proper to order the said Thomas Baitly to be seized at Mihilamakinac, and his goods and papers sent down to this place. Major Depeyster1 at my requisition has sent down the said Thomas Baitley a prisoner to this place, and has also transmitted some of his papers, which with other papers delivered into my hands by M' Baidey on his arrival are sent down sealed to Edw<i \Vm Gray Esq' I*Putv Sherriff at Montreal. He was taken into Custody the twenty first day of July, 77- . . All which I certify, as also that I do not know of any former deposi- tions or declarations on Oath made and taken at the Ilinois or elsewhere against the said Thomas Baitley, but that the letter which was written to me by Mr de Rocheblave and which among other particulars men- tions Mr Baitley's having sent provisions to the Rebels in the Mouth of the Ohio, was the principal cause of the Arrest and detention of the said Mr Thomas Baitley.2 Given under my hand at Detroit August the 15th 1777. Signed Henry Hamilton, L' Govr & Superinten1 Entered in the Recorder's Office at Detroit, the 15 August 1777. folio 38. [Endorsed:] L* Govr Hamilton's Dec" concerning Mr Bentley. 15th Aug* 1777. 1 Captain Arent Schuyler de Peyster was a native of New York and nephew of Peter Schuyler of Albany Hewas partly educated in England, and entered tbearmy in 1755. He remained in England until 1768, when he went to Canada. In 1774 he was sent to take the command of Mackinac, where after three years' service he was promoted to the grade of major. After the capture of Hamilton, De Peyster was transferred to Detroit, where he remained till 1784. After serving a short time at Niagara, he returned to England. In 1795 he retired from active service and settled at Dumfries, Scotland. As an author of rhymes, he may be studied in his Miscellanies (Dumfries, 1813) which contains some curi- ous rhymes on western American affairs. Adapted from Wis. Hist. Collections, xviii., 344. 'From the foregoing letters and memorials it appears that Bentley, in May, shortly after the return of his boat from the Ohio, departed for Michillimackinac. Rocheblave immediately attempted to secure the signatures of the inhabitants to an accusation against Hentley, but without success. He therefore, wrote to Hamilton concerning Mcnlley's act, and on the strength of that letter, Ham- ilton ordered the arrest. The grounds for Rocheblave's suspicions are brought out in the Lourt 01 Enquiry on following page.

Page 18
i8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Court of Enquiry, September n, 1777. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 100 et seq. — Attested copy.] Philippe de Rastel chevallier de Rocheblave juge et commandant aux Illinois. A Messieurs de Girardot Ecuyer ancien officier Dinfanterie ancien Magistrat En la cour Etablie par Monsieur le Colonel Wilkins, Barbeau ancien Magistrat En la ditte Court Capitaine de Milice a la prairie du Rocher, charles Cadron capitaine de Milice a St. Philippe, Janis, plasy, [Translation.] Philippe de Rastel, Chevalier de Rochblave, Judge and Command- ant at the Illinois. To MM. de Girardot,1 Esq., former officer of infantry, former magis- trate in the court established by Colonel Wilkins,2 Barbau3 former mag- istrate in the same court, captain of militia at Prairie du Rocher, Charles Cadron, captain of militia at St. Philippe, Janis,4 Plasy,5 and 1 Pierre Sieur de Girardot or Girardeau (other name unknown but possibly Picard) was a French infantry officer. His father was Jean Bte. Girardeau, one of the officers sent to the Illinois district by the Company of the West. His mother was Thérèse, daughter of Jacques Neveu. After the death of his father his mother married, first Louis Dutisné, and, second, Pierre René Harpan sieur de la Gautrau. Pierre de Girardot lived at St. Philippe and was a prominent inhabitant of the "American bottom." His wife was Madame Loisel, widow of Andre Chevalier, garde magasin of Illinois. He held several offices: justice of the peace in the court organized by Lieutenant-Colonel Wilkins; probably commandant of St. Philippe under Clark and in County of Illinois; justice in court of the district of Kaskaskia. He died before or during 1782. Cape Girardeau was probably named after one of this family. Kaskaskia MSS.; Parish Records of Ste. Anne; Houck, L. Hist, of Missouri, ii., 168, n. 5. 2 Lieutenant-Colonel Wilkins was captain of the 55th infantry in 1755. He was commandant at Niagara at outbreak of the Conspiracy 01 Pontine, and was repulsed by the Indians in attempting to relieve Detroit. In 1764 he became major in the 60th, and in the next year was made lieutenant-colonel in the 18th (Royal Irish) stationed at Philadelphia. In 1768 he was sent as commandant to Illinois, where he arrived October 4th. Here he engaged in land speculations with the firm of Baynton, Whar- ton & Morgan. His government of Illinois was very arbitrary and he became very unpopular with the French, and in the end with the English. Charges of graft were made against him and he was recalled in 1771; but the failure of his successor, Major Isaac Hamilton, to reach Illinois during the fall, made it impossible to relieve him until the early spring of 177a, when he went down the Mississippi to Pensacola. He withdrew from the army in 1775. Kaskaskia MSS.; Letters from Morgan in Dept. of Archives, Harrisburg, Pa., and in his letter book, III. Hist. Library; Wis. Hist. Collections, xviii., 296, n. 18; Carter, C. Ë., British Régime in Illinois, Justin Winsor Prize, 1908; Parkman, Fr., Conspiracy of Pontiac (consult Indcx).î 2 Jean Baptiste Barbau's life is treated at length in the Introduction to III. Hist. Collections, ii. (consult Index). The index of this present volume will indicate the documents upon which the sketch of Barbau in Vol. ii. is based. * Nicolas Janis was a native of France. He married at Kaskaskia, in 1751, a daughter of Marie B. Thau mur ait Lasource. He occupied an important position in the community, being captain of militia under the British, to which position he was reappointed by Clark, and later by Todd. His influ- ence was thrown on the side of the Americans even before the occupation of the village by them, and after that event he gave them financial assistance. His son, Jean Baptiste, accompanied Clark on the Vincennes campaign and conducted himself with great bravery. Nicolas Janis was elected justice, when the first court was inaugurated by John Todd. He was still living in Kaskaskia in 1787, accord- ing to the census of that year. (See post, p. 414.) Members of the family settled later in Ste. Genevieve Mo. Kaskaskia MSS.; Draper MSS.,iS J 183; Houck, L., Hist, of Missouri, i., 354, n. 43; III. Hist. Collections, ii. (consult Index). fi Joseph Duguay Duplasy (also Duplasscy, Plasy, Placis) married Catherine, daughter of Jean Bte. Bertlor Barrois, royal French notary in Illinois. They had four children, two of whom were named Louis and Jean Baptiste. He was captain of militia under the British and was reappointed by the Vir- ginians. When courts were established in Illinois by John Todd, he was elected to that of the district of Kaskaskia. Joseph Duplasy became an ardent follower of Colonel de la Balme, contributed money
Page 19
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1777 19 et Brazeaux capitaine de Milice aux Kaskaskias les deux Capitaine de milice des Kaokias n'ayant pu vaincre les obstacles a leur arrivée sçavoir faisons; Que queques Particuliers ayant foulé aux pieds les devoirs que leur imposoient leur qualité de sujets Et de cytoyens En sont venus au point d'oser faire des armaments pour porter de secours en munitions de guerre, armes Et marchandises aux Colonies, d'Envoyer des vivres a leurs voitures qui importoient des poudres dans les dittes Colonies, d'En- tretenir une Correspondance de Lettres avec des Particuliers d'ycelles, quils ont refuse de faire voir comme LEseigeoient leur devoir: pour couvrir leurs demarches folles Et Extravagantes, ils ont chérché a Ebranler La fidelité du peuple Et ne pouvant le seduire, ils ont a force de deprimer la Justice de la Cause du Roy, dExalter la puissance des Colons et de leurs pretendus protecteurs, repandu L'allarme Et le decouragement, ils ont osé donner de Esperances fausses Et insidieuses [Translation.] Brazeaux,1 captains of militia at Kaskaskia, (the two captains of militia of Cahokia, absent, having been unable to overcome the obstacles to their arrival) we make known: That some individuals have trampled under foot the duties which their quality of subjects and citizens imposes on them and have reached the point of daring to fit out equipments for the purpose of carrying aid such as munitions of war, arms, and merchandise to the colonies, of send- ing supplies to their boats which are importing powder into the said colo- nies, of conducting with individuals of the same a correspondence which they have refused to have examined as their duty required. In order to cover their mad and extravagant actions, they have sought to shake the fidelity of the people; and failing to seduce the citizens, they have forci- bly vilified the justice of the cause of the king and exalted the power of the colonies and of their pretended protectors. They have spread wide alarm and discouragement. They have dared to give to some persons for his expedition against Detroit, and lost his life in the undertaking. III. Hist. Collections, ii. (Con- sult Index); post, P- 194- 24°: Houck, L., Hist. of Missouri, i., 309. 1 Joseph Brazeaux came to Kaskaskia from Canada at the close of the French régime. His wife was Françoise Dezer. He had three children, Louis, Joseph, and Francoise. This last married Jean Bte. Charleville. At the time of Clark's appearance Joseph Brazeaux was captain of militia. In III. Hist. Collections, ii., p. lu., I noticed that he was not reappointed by John Todd. The probable rea- son for this was that nc had been killed by the Indians. His burial occurred June 4, 1779. His son, Louis, was, in 1782, elected one of the justices of the Court of Kaskaskia. The family moved to St Louis in 1787. Notes by Benj. Suite; Kaskaskia MSS., Marriage Contracts; Houck, L., Hist. o| Mnssouri, ii., 53; til. Hist. Collections, ii., pp. Ivi., cxvi.
Page 20
20 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS a quelques personnes d'une amelioration de fortune si les rebelles ar- rivoient, taché dintroduire Méthodiquement le désordre Et Lanarchie se refusen[t] au payement des deptes les plus legitimes Et osé Enfin mecon- noitre[?] toute justice et toute authorite Dans L'Espoire d'Envelopper leurs noirs attentats de nuages Epais Et d'obscurcir la Vérité ils ont adressé a SON EXCELLENCE Messire le chevallier Carleton gover- neur Et Capitaine General de cette province Le libelle le plus diffama- toire, dans lequel ils m'accusent d'avoir refusé toute justice aux origi- naires anglois, tandis qu'il Est de notoriété publique que jai renvoyé la Connoissance de leurs affaires a une assemblée damicables Composi- teurs choisis par les Parties elles mêmes, où a défaut nommés d'office, ils disent que J'ai détruit le lendemain ce que J'ai fais La veille Et je n'ai cependant changé aucune oppinions des Justiciers susdit appellés icy arbitres mis en usage avant moy par Monsieur le Capitaine hugues Lord a la Satisfaction commune Et cela leur même dans un temps où ils n'osoient donner cariëre a leur mauvais desseins, ils se plaignent que J'ai Etablie une deffence Pénale de deux cens piastres contre ceux qui trait- teroient de L Eaudevie aux sauvages, tandis que Je me permets cette [Translation.] false and insidious hopes of an amelioration of fortune, if the rebels arrive, and have attempted methodically to introduce disorder and anarchy by refusing the payment of most legitimate debts. They have finally dared to deny all justice and all authority in the hope of envelop- ing their black criminal attempts in thick clouds and for the purpose of obscuring the truth they have addressed to His Excellency the Cheva- lier Carleton, governor and captain general of this province, the most defamatory libel, in which they accuse me of having refused all justice to the original English, when it is notorious that I have referred the cog- nizance of their affairs to an assembly of friendly compounders chosen by the parties themselves, or in default thereof officially nominated. They say that I have annulled the next day what I have done the day before. And yet I have not altered an opinion of the above justices, called here arbiters, the use of whom was begun by Captain Hugh Lord to the satisfaction of all, and that even to the satisfaction of the English at a time when they did not dare to give rein to their evil designs. They complain that I have prohibited, under penalty of two hundred piastres, trade in eaudevie with the savages, while I allow myself to con-
Page 21
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1777 même traitte pour avoir le Castor Et les loutres, il Est connu de tout le monde que cette Convention Part des habitants Eux-mêmes, que Daniel Murray l'un des mes accusateurs la signée de son bon gré la jugeant juste Et nécessaire Et quelle auroit sorti un Effet salutaire sans sa cupidité et celle de thomas Bentley L'autre de mes accusateurs qui ont été les pre- miers a braver les inconvénients sans nombre qui pouvoient résulter tant pour Eux que pour leurs concytoyens de son infraction. ils osent dans la témérité de leurs assertions m'accuser de partialité davoir Envoyé chercher L'armée les sakias, renards Et autres cachés a un quart de Lieu dici au nombre de six cens pour attaquer nuitament une trentaine d'illinois retranchés dans le centre de ce lieu qui Eut couru risque d'être détruit si Je n'avois pas eu le Coup, le pavillon blanc quils disent que jai Employé pour cet Effet, Etant le pavillon françois leur soit de matière propre a jetter des doutes sur la fidélité de celui qui ne cesse declairer leurs trahisons, quand j'aurois fourni dans une occasion si presante drap où nappe je ne voirois pas matière a grand crime, cepen- [Translation.] duct this trade for beaver and otter skins. Everybody knows that this agreement originated with the inhabitants themselves and that Daniel Murray, one of my accusers, signed it of his own free will, judging it just and necessary;1 and that the agreement would have resulted bene- ficially had it not been for his cupidity and that of Thomas Bentley, the other of my accusers, both of whom have been the first to brave the numberless inconveniencies which might result both for them- selves and their fellow citizens by its infraction. In the temerity of their assertions, they dare to accuse me of partial- ity in having sent for the army of Sauks, Foxes, and other Indians to the number of six hundred hidden within a quarter of a league from here for the purpose of attacking by night some thirty Illinois Indians intrenched in the centre of this place, who would have run the risque of being des- troyed, if I had not had the first play. The white flag which they say I have employed for this purpose, being the French flag, is to them a proper matter to throw doubts on the fidelity of him who does not stop declaring their treasons. When I would have furnished at so critical an occasion a sheet or table cloth, I should not view the matter as a great 1 Shortly after Rochebiave took charge of the Illinois, he called together the citizens to discuss the difficulties of their situation, and to détermine questions concerning the trade with the Indians. It was decided that thereafter no trader should give the Indians intoxicating liquor. AH the French traders signed this agreement, and one American, Daniel Murray. Kaskaskia MSS., Court Record.
Page 22
22 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS dant je n'ai Emprunté un de ches La Dame Cerré qui Est anglois Et qui doit être presenté En faveur de qui contre qui Etoit ma partialité, J'ai fait des presents a tous, nulle hostilité n'a éte commise seroit ce point ce qui fache ces M". ils m'ont accusé d'avoir Encouragé les Sauvages dans leurs Brigand- ages, tandis que d'un autre coté on m'a accusé de trop defermeté sur cet article, les discours que je leur ai tenu a cette occasion ont toujours été publies. Comme ils se sont portés par la copie de leur requête Ecrite de la main des deux et cy jointe partie contre moy, jai cru ne pas devoir prendre des informations Par moy même mais vous commettre comme je le fais Par ces presentes pour après serment L'Egalement pretté composer une court d'Enquête Et y prendre sur votre honneur Et conscience, sous la presidence de Mr de Girardot Et L'Ecriture de tel Greffier que vous prendrés recevoir le serment'des temoins qui sont cy après, les faire assigner recevoir Et rediger par Ecrit leurs depositions le tout tant a [Translation.] crime. I have only borrowed an English flag at the house of Madame Cerré who should be present to testify in favor of whom and against whom was my partiality. I made presents to all the Indians; no hostility was committed. Can this be the point which offends these gentlemen? They have accused me of having encouraged the savages in their brigandage, whilst on another side I am accused of too great firmness under this heading. The discourses which I have made to the Indians on these occasions have always been published. Since, by the copy of their petition, written by the hands of both and herewith joined,1 they have appeared in court against me, I have believed that I ought not to take information by myself, but to commit the case to you, as I do by these presents, so that after oath has been legally made, you may compose a court of enquiry and act therein according to your honor and conscience, under the presidency of M. de Girardot and the secretaryship of such clerk, as you shall choose for the purpose of receiv- ing the oaths of the witnesses who are here present, of making them sign their testimony, of receiving and reducing to writing all their depositions, 1 Printed ante, p. 4.
Page 23
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1777 charge qu'a d'echarge Et dans Le meilleur ordre Et le plus L'Egale- ment que ie pais peut le permettre. fort Gage le 10 Septembre 1777. signé Rocheblave scellé et délivré ici Est un cachet. Au revers de la feuille Est Ecrit de qui suit. Noms des Personnes et fait sur lesquels je prie La Cour d'Enquête de les interroger sous serment. Mr Kennedy pour avoir a reconnoitre copie de la requête où il Est dénommé, avouer si les motifs en sont justes Et lui demander sa declaration au Bas de la dite requête, lui demander s'il a connoissance des mauvais traittements que j'ai faits aux colons anglois réfugiés icy, si au contraires il n'a pas été témoin des avantages que je leur ay fais Et voulu faire. Mr Charleville sur les propos que thomas Bentley lui a tenu a table. Mr Droiiart pour declarer les Esperences d'une meilleure fortune que lui a donné Daniel Murray a L'arrivée des rebelles auprès desquels il doit être son son [sic] protecteur, Patrick Kennedy present. [Translation.] whether for or against me, in the best order and the most legal that the country permits. Fort Gage, September 10, 1777. signed Rocheblave, sealed and delivered. Here is a seal. On the reverse of the page is written what follows: Names of persons and the facts concerning which I pray the court of enquiry to interrogate them under oath: M. Kennedy, in order that he recognize the copy of the petition wherein he is named, and avow if the motives are just, and to demand of him his declaration below the said petition; to ask him if he has knowledge of the bad treatment which I have given the English colonists who have taken refuge here; if, on the contrary, he has not been witness of favors which I have made them and wished to make. M. Charleville, on the conversation which Thomas Bentley had with him at table. M. Drouart, that he declare the hopes of a better fortune, which Daniel Murray has given him, after the arrival of the rebels, with whom Daniel Murray would be his protector. This was said when Patrick Kennedy was present.
Page 24
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 24 La Dame Cerré pour représenter le pavillon quelle a Pretté a ma demande pour aller chercher les Sakias Et renards affirmer par serment L'égal si c'est le même ou non, la Cour voudra Bien constater s'il Est anglois où françois. La demoiselle lasondraye pour déclarer la Connoissance de la traite d'Eaudevie au sauvages. La Dame de Lisle pour dire ce quelle sçait d'un présent que les kika- pous ont voulu me faire pour leur donner un Ecrit portant permission de traitter disoient ils chez Langlois En me Montrant la maison de Bentley. Le sr tourengeau lui demender pour où Etoit destiné L'armement pour Lequel Bentley Lavoit Engagé quels Etoient Les Effets Et charge. Le sieur Bolon pour sçavoir de lui qui a fourni des vivres aux voitures angloises rebelles qui portoient des poudres, si la voiture de Bendey n'a pas resté plusieurs jours sur la pointe de la Belle rivière où il ny avoit pas de sauvages, si elle n'a pas fait des signeaux, pour quoy après avoir rejoint les sauvages dans la Belle rivière elle En Est sortie pour descendre un peu plus Bas dans le mississippi ou n'Etoient point les dellawars dont il est interprette ny autres et de quelle nation Etoit La charge. [Translation.] Madame Cerré, to produce the flag which she has loaned at my request in order to send for the Sauks and Foxes and to affirm by légal oath if it is the same or not. The court will carefully establish whether it is English or French. Mademoiselle Lasoudraye, to déclare her knowledge of the trade in eaudevie with the savages. Madame de Lisle, to say what she knows of a présent which the Kickapoos have wished to make to me in order to give them a writing containing permission to trade, as they said, with the English, pointing out to me the house of Bentley. M. Touranjeau, to demand of him whither the equipment was des- tined for which Bentley had engaged him and what was the cargo. M. Bolen, to know who furnished supplies to the English rebel boats, which were carrying powder, and if Bentley's boat did not remain several days on the point of the Ohio where there were no savages; and if it did not make signais, and why, after having rejoined the savages in the Ohio, the boat set out to descend a little lower the Mississippi, where there were no Delawares, for whom M. Bolan is interpréter, nor other Indians; and what was the character of the cargo.
Page 25
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1777 95 Le sr Carbonneaux pour sçavoir de lui a quelle heure Bentley Et Murray vouloient lui faire protester au mandat tiré sur moy du post St. Vincennes pour fourniture faites au sauvages ledit mandat ne m'ayant point Encore été présenté. si j'ai vexé le public, si je me suis Engraissé de rapines M" de Enquê- tes lui doient Et a Eux mêmes de profiter de L'occasion, ils n'en trouver- ont pas de plus favorable pour faire Entendre leurs plaintes, fort Gage le onze 7bre 1777. signé Rocheblave L'an mil Sept cent soixante dix sept Et le onzième jour du mois de Septembre avant midy a la requisition de Monsieur philippe françois de Rastel chevalier de Rocheblave Ecuyer juge et commandant pour sa Majesté Britanique au pais des illinois. Nous juré assemblée pour former une cour d'Enquête pour oiiir les depositions Et témoignages des s" joseph chauvin charleville patrick Kennedy Et françois Drouart resident au village des Kaskaskias Et ont Pardevant nous prêté serment quils diroient verité sur les questions quils leur seront faites concernant [Translation.] M. Carbonneaux, in order to know from him at what hour Bentley and Murray wished to have him protest a draft drawn on me from Post Vincennes for supplies made to the savages, when the said draft had not yet been presented. The gentlemen of the court of enquiry owe it to the court and to them- selves individually to profit by the occasion to leam if I have vexed the public and have fattened on rapine. They will not find a more favorable time to make their complaints heard. Fort Gage, September 7,1777. (Signed) Rocheblave. The year, 1777, the eleventh day of the month of September, before noon, at the requisition of M. Philippe François de Rastel, Chevalier de Rocheblave, Esquire, Judge and Commandant for hisBrittannic Majesty in the country of Illinois: We, jurors assembled to form a court of enquiry to hear the depositions and testimonies of MM. Joseph Chauvin dit Charleville, Patrick Kennedy and François Droûart, who are resi- dents of the village of Kaskaskia and have, before us, taken oath that they would answer truthfully the questions which shall be put to them
Page 26
26 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS les plaintes Grieves qui ont été portées a Monsieur le Gouverneur Gen- eral du Canada Et de ses dependences a L'instant avons interrogé le sr patrick Kennedy s'il avoit con- noissance et reconnu copie d'une requête Présentée contre Monsieur de Rocheblave a repondu que oui. Interrogé sil a Connoissance des mauvais traittements que mondit sr de Rocheblave avoit fait aux anglois réfugiés, a repondu que non, Et quil a seulement connoissance qu'il leurs a fait beaucoup de Bien Et des avantages qu'il a voulu faire Et qu'il a fait plusieurs fois En foy de quoy a signé En notre presence Et nous Greffier le jour Et an que dessus, signé Plasi, signé janis, signé Patt Kennedy signé Lachanse, signé Barbau, signé Brazeaux, signé charles cadron signé Le ch girardot, signé Perthius Greffier, a la page suivante Est Ecri. et le jour Et an que de l'autre Part Est comparu mr joseph chauvin de charleville ancien Capitaine de milice Et après lui avoir fait faire [Translation.] concerning the complaints of grievances which have been carried to the governor general of Canada and its dependencies. Now we have interrogated M. Patrick Kennedy if he had knowledge of and recognized the copy of a petition presented against M. de Roche- blave. He has answered, "Yes." Interrogated if he has knowledge of bad treatment which M. de Rocheblave had given the English who have taken refuge here. He has answered " No, " and that he has only knowl- edge of much good that he has done to them and of advantages which he has wished to give and which he has given several times. On faith of which he has signed in our presence and we the clerk have also signed the day and year as above. (Signed) Plasy, (signed) Janis, (signed) Patt. Kennedy, (signed) Lachanse, (signed) Barbau, (signed) Brazeaux, (signed) Charles Cadron,1 (signed) Chevalier de Girardot, (signed) Perthius, clerk.2 On the following page is written: And the day and year as of the other part there appeared M. Joseph Chauvin dit Charleville, former captain of militia, and after having made 1 On June 18,1747, Charles Cadron, voyageur at the time in the village of Fort de Chartres, signed a contract of marriage with Genevieve Hemet. His father was Pierre Cadron of the parish of St. An- toine in Canada. Kaskaskia MSS., Marriage Contracte. * I have been unable to find anything about the clerk.
Page 27
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEPTEMBER n, 1777 27 serment de dire vérité sur les interrogations a lui fait faire lui avons demandé s'il avoit Entendu de Mauvais propos par le sr Bentley Contre Mr de Rocheblave a la table de Mr Charleville. a repondu que ledit Bentley lui a présenté a deux où trois fois un pièce d'Ecriture ne sçavoir seulement si'elle Etoit Ecrite En françois n'y anglois n'ayant voulu l'avoir ni la signer ce qui n'auroit occasionné de lui dire de se taire, de boire Et de manger qu'il Etoit pour cela. En outre Je déclare pour la présente que Mr de Rocheblave n'a Jamais fait tord aux anglois réfugié autant qu'il Est a ma Cannoissance. En outre Je déclare que le temps qu'il Etoit sur L'autre rive comme sur celle cy il n'a En Connoissance que mondit sieur de Rocheblave n'a Jamais fait commerce d'Eaudevie avec Les sauvages Et après Lecture a lui faite a déclaré qu'il n'avoit rien a augmenter n'y a diminuer et a signé le jour Et an que de L'autre Part. [AU signed.] a la Page suivante Est Ecrit. Et le dit jour Et an que des autres parts avons interrogé Le sr françois [Translation.] him take oath to answer truthfully the interrogations put to him, we have asked him if he had heard evil conversation from M. Bentley against M. de Rocheblave at the table of M. Charleville. He has answered that the said Bentley has presented tohim two or three times a pièce of writing; that he did not know even if it was written in French or English, since he had not wished to take it or to sign it, which had occasioned them to tell him to keep quiet, to drink, and to eat, that he was in favor of that. "Furthermore I déclare now that M. de Rocheblave has never done wrong to the English refugees as far as it is a matter of my knowledge. "Furthermore, I déclare that during the time that he was on the other bank as well as on this, I (Charleville) have knowledge that M. de Rocheblave has never traded in eaudevie with the savages." And after reading his testimony to him, he has declared that he had nothing to aug- ment or to diminish therein and he has signed the day and year as of the other part. [AU signed.] On the following page is written: And the said day and year as of the other parts we have interrogated
Page 28
28 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Droiiart, si le sr Daniel Murray lui auroit fait Espérer des avantages si les Bastonnois [sic] arrivoient dans ce pais a repondu que oui En présence de sr Kennedy déclare En outre que depuis le temps qu'il Est En ce pais Et que Mr de Rocheblave Exerce La charge de Commandant il n'a connu En lui que de Lintegrité Et porté de Zele En tout temps a soulager les anglois réfugiés les ayant comblés de Bien fait a sa Connoissance, inter- rogé s'il avoit connoissance que mondit sr de Rocheblave ay fait com- merce d'Eaudevie avec les Sauvages a repondu que non, interrogé s'il avoit Connoissance que Mr de Rocheblave Eu Envoyé un pavillon françois au devant des sauvages sakias et renards, a repondu que deux jours avant L'arrivée des dits Sauvages aux Kaskaskias il auroit été présent a une sortie de divers habitans pour aller au devant d'Eux Et que Mr de Rocheblave avoit donné un pavillon anglois Et comme les dits habitants trouvoient surchargé par le poids du dit pavillon, ils auroient Laissé ce même pavillon chez le sr lachanse sans la Connois- sance de Mr de Rocheblave Et auroient pri une serviette quils auroient mis au bout d'une perche pour passer plus facilement dans les Bois Et après lecture faite.... [Translation.] M. François Droiiart, if M. Daniel Murray had made him hope for ad- vantages if the Bostonians arrived in this country. He has answered, "Yes. In the présence of M. Kennedy." He déclares furthermore that during the time he has been in this country and M. de Rocheblave has exercised the office of commandant, he has only known in him integ- rity and zealous désire at ail times to relieve the English refugees, whom he has overwhelmed with good deeds to his knowledge. Asked if he had knowledge if M. de Rocheblave has traded in eaudevie with the savages he has answered, "No." Asked if he had knowledge that M. de Roche- blave had sent a French flag to meet the Sauks and Foxes, he answered that two days before the arrivai of the said savages at Kaskaskia he had been présent at a sortie of several inhabitants to go to meet them and that M. de Rocheblave has given them an English flag; and as the said inhabitants were burdened by the weight of the said flag, they had left this same flag at the house of M. Lachanse without the knowledge of M. de Rocheblave and had taken a towel which they had put on the end of a pôle in order to pass more easily in the woods; and after reading was made. . . .
Page 29
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEPTEMBER u, 1777 29 [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Dame Cerré] .... Et lui demandé quel Pavillon elle avoit preté a Mr de Rocheblave pour aller p.udevant des Sakias et renards qui venoient assieger les illinois a quoy elle a repondu .... quelle avoit preté un pavillon anglois Et dans L'instant avons Envoyé chercher le pavillon qui a été reconnu par L'assemblée Pour être le mêmê que laditte Dame Cerré avoit Preté Et que c'est le veritable pavillon anglois .... [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Dame veuve de Lisle.] .... Interrogé si [elle] Etoit presente Lorsque Les Kikapoux apporterent un present a Mon Dit sieur de Rocheblave, pourquil leur accordat la permission de traitter de Leaudevie chez Langlois En mon- trant la maison de Bentley, a quoy elle a repondu quelle Etoit presente Lorsque les dits Sauvages demanderent cette permission Et quelle a vue une Belle robbe de Castor que Mr de Rocheblave refusat Et ne leurs donnat point de permission .... [Translation.] [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Madame Cerré}] .... And we have asked her what flag she had loaned M. de Rocheblave to go to meet the Sauks and Foxes who came to besiege the Illinois; to which she answered . . . that she had loaned an English flag; and now we have sent for the flag, which has been recognized by the assembly as the same that the said Madame Cerré had loaned and that it is the true English flag [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Madame de Liste.] . . . . we have asked if she was present when the Kickapoos brought a present to M. de Rocheblave, in order that he should grant them the permission to trade in eaudevie with the English, pointing to Bentley's house; to which she has answered that she was present when the said savages demanded this permission and that she had seen a beau- tiful robe of beaver skins, which M. de Rocheblave refused to accept, and that he would not grant them permission 1 To avoid rcpetition and to save space, there have been omitted the legal formula: at the beginning and end of the testimony. These are the same as those used in the case of the preceding witnesses.
Page 30
30 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Tourangeau.} .... interrogé si Monsieur Bentley avoit voulu Langager pour aller dans le Mississipi En bas a repondu qu' Effectivement le Sr Bentley avoit voulu L Engager lui Et son nègre pour aller En Bas mississipi Et que faute de L'arrengement qu'ils n'ont pas pu prendre Ensemble pour le prix de ses Gages leur Marché na pas Eu Lieu Et que Mr Bendey lui dit de ne se Point inquietter de ce quil pouvoit faire de sa cargaizon qu'il Luy Etoit indiffèrent qu'il la vendit a Sauvage françois où anglois, et de suivre seulement Le Sieur Borner qui Etoit conducture de la voiture [AU signed.] [Teslimony oj Damoiselle Lasoudraye.] .... interrogé si elle avoit connoissance que Monsieur de Rocheblave Eu traitté de L Eaudevie aux Sauvages a repondu qu'elle Etoit un jour chez Mr de Rocheblave Lorsquil Entra un Sauvage avec deux Castors, qu'il les jetta au pieds de sa Dame Et lui demanda de [Translation.] [AU signed.] [Teslimony oj Touranjeau.] . . . . we have asked if M. Bentley had wished to engage him to go down the Mississipi. He has answered that in fact M. Bentley had wished to engage him and his negro to go down the Mississippi; and that their bargain was not concluded, because they failed to get together on the price of his wages; and that M. Bentley said to him that he was not to disturb himself about what he (Bentley) might do with his cargo, that he was indiffèrent whether he sold it to savages, French, or Eng- lish, and instructed him (Touranjeau) only to follow M. Borner who was in charge of the boats [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Mademoiselle Lasoudraye.1 ] . . . . we have asked her if she had knowledge that M. de Roche- blave had traded in eaudevie with the savages. She has answered that she was one day at M. de Rocheblave's when there entered a savage with two beaver skins, that he threw them at the feet of Madame de 1 Probablyad.iughtcrof Pierre de Monbreun de la Soudraye, former captainof mitilia. and Toinette Langlois. Another daughter married Jean Bte. Bauvuis. Kaskaskùi MSS., Marriagt Contracts.
Page 31
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEITEMBER u, 1777 31 L'Eaudevie a quoy elle lui dit de remporter son Castor quelle traittoit point d'Eaudevie. le même sauvage leurs faisoit Entendre que cetoit les anglois qu'il L'avoit Envoyé et qu'il auroit de L'Eaudevie cependant on le fit sorter avec son Castor, Mr de Rocheblave n'y Etant point Cest a sa dame a qui il faisoit La proposition le Sauvage En suite lui En vou- loit faire present se que Laditte Dame refusa constamment Et après [AU signed.] [September 12, 1777. Testimony oj "Sylveste engagé du sieur Bentley."] .... interrogé et où le sr Bentley destinoit une voiture qu'il faisoit partir Environ le 28me aoust 1776 a repondu qu'il lui avoit dit que c'etoit pour La Virginie, interrogé de quoy la voiture Etoit chargé a repondu quelle Etoit chargée de de [sic] poudre dans des cruches, taffia sucre, Caffé, couverte, fusils Et d'autres Merchandises emballées Et apres .... [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Picard] .... interrogé du motif pourquoy Mr Bentley l'avoit fait par- [Translation.] Rocheblave and asked her for some eaudevie, upon which she told him to take back his beaver skins, that she did not trade in eaudevie. The same savage made them understand that it was the English who had sent him and that he would have eaudevie. They made him leave, how- ever, with his beavers. Since M. de Rocheblave was not there, it was his wife to whom the savage made the proposition, which the said lady constantly refused; and after [AU signed.] [September 12, 1777. Testimony oj Sylvester "engagé " of M. BenUey.] . . . . we have asked him whither M. Bentley destined a boat which he sent out the 28th of August, 1776. He has answered that M. Bentley had told him that it was for Virginia. Asked with what the boat was loaded. He has answered that it was loaded with powder in jars, tafia made of sugar, coffee, cloth, guns, and other merchandise packed up; and after. . . . [AU signed.] [Testimony of Picard.] . . . . we have asked concerning the reason that M. Bentley had
Page 32
32 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS tir pour aller après le sieur Borner son commis, a repondu qu'il avoit une suspicion sur le Compte du Sr Borner, interrogé jusqu'où il devoit aller après lui, a repondu qu'il devoit aller a la rivière du sud distante de vingt Lieu au dessus de Wouabache, interrogé de quelle nature de Marchan- dise le sr Borner Etoit chargé a repondu qu'il tenoit de Mr Borner qu'il a rencontré a la rivière chaouanon ou Environ qu'il avoit dans sa voiture un millier de poudre, des couvertes draps, fusils &c Et plomb En Barre Et que le sr Borner lui a dit qu'il Etoit chargé Pour la somme de trente milles livres Et après .... [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Antoine Peltier dit antaya.] .... interrogé si Mr Bentley l'auroit Employé pour aller après le sr Borner son commis, et du motif pourquoy il le faisoit partir, a repon- du que ledit Bentley lui avoit dit quil craignoit que Borner ne fut pillé Par un parti Kikapous qui devoit passer où il Etoit et qu'il avoit ordre de poursuivre jusqu'à la rivière du sud a vingt lieu audessus de [Translation.] made him set out to go after M. Borner, his clerk. He has answered that he (Bentley) had a suspicion about M. Bomer's account. Asked where he was to go after him. He has answered that he was to go to the river of the south, distant twenty leagues above the Wabash. Asked what was the nature of the merchandise with which M. Borner was charged. He has answered that he understood from M. Borner, whom he met on the river Chaouanon [Cumberland] or thereabouts, that he had in his boat a thousand pounds of powder, bed-clothes, guns, etc., and lead in bars and that M. Borner has told him that he had a load to the value of thirty thousand livres; and after.... [AU signed.] [Testimony of Antoine Pelletier dit Anlaya.] . . . . we have asked if M. Bentley had employed him to go after M. Borner, his clerk, and what was the reason that he (Bentley) made him set out. He has answered that the said Bentley told him that he feared that Borner would be pillaged by a party of Kickapoos who would pass where he was and that he (the witness) had orders to follow as far as the river of the south twenty leagues above the Wabash. Asked where he had met the said Borner. He has answered about a league above the river Chaouanon. Asked where the said Borner had
Page 33
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEPTEMBER n, 1777 33 ouabache, interrogé où il avoit rencontré ledit Borner, a repondu Environ une lieu audessus la rivière chaouenon, interrogé où ledit Borner lui avoit dit qu'il devoit aller, a repondu que ledit Borner lui avoit dit qu'il contoit aller jusqu'à une rivière dont on ne scait pas le nom qui Est audessus de la chutte où il y avoit des anglois Etablis. Interrogé de quoy la voiture Etoit chargé, a repondu qu'il n'avoit pas pu voir ce qu'il y avoit dans la voiture mais qu'elle Etoit Bien chargé et que le sieur Borner lui avoit dit qu'il y avoit pour trente milles livres d'effets et particulièrement un millier de Poudre Et après .... [AU signed.] [Teslimony 0} Daniel Coiel.] .... interrogé si Lannée dernière il EtoitEngagé au sieur Bent- ley pour aller avec le sr Borner a repondu que le sr Bentley lui avoit toujours dit enseignant son marche qu'il Etoit pour le détroit après qu'ils ont été parti le dit Borner leurs a dit qu'ils etoient destiné Pour aller a une rivière audessus de la chute où il y avoit des anglois Etablis laditte rivière nommé En anglois Kintac [sic], Interrogé de quoy Etoit chargé la voiture a repondu quelle Etoit chargée de poudre, Baies, plumb, Rum taffia vin [Translation.] told him that he was to go. He has answered that the said Borner had told him that he counted on going up to a river the name of which one does not know, which is above the falls where there were English established. Asked with what the boat was loaded. He has answered that he had not been able to see what there was in the boat, but that it was well loaded and that M. Borner had said to him that he had thirty thousand livres worth of goods and particularly a thousand pounds of powder; and after .... [AU signed.] [Testimony of Daniel Coiel.] .... Asked if last year he was engaged by M. Bentley to go with M. Borner. He has answered that M. Bentley had always told him in instructing him concerning the bargain that the expédition was for Dé- troit. After they had set out the said Borner told them that they were destined to go to a river above the Falls where there were English estab- lished. The said river is named in English Kentucky. Asked with what the boat was loaded. He has answered that it was loaded with powder, shot, lead, rum called tafia, wine, sait, guns, coffee, and other
Page 34
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS sel, fusils, caffé et autres marchandises Et interrogé ledit Daniel coiel Lequel pais il Etoit, a repondu qu'il Etoit irlandois, Et a été interpretté par le sr Patrick Kennedy Et apres .... [AU signed.] [Second testimony oj Patrick Kennedy.] .... interrogé comment il s'ctoit rencontré chez le sr Daniel Murray avec le sr Drouat Lorsqu'il dit a ce dernier que si les Bastonnois arriverent il pourroit se voir de L'avantage. a repondu qu'il avoit Entendu dire par ledit Murray a Drouart Parlant, que si les Bastonnois arrivoient quil ne pouvoit pas manqué d'être Employé comme Etant le plus Expert dans les affaires Et qu'il semployeroit pour lui pour le mettre En place Et apres .... [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Hippolité Bolen.] .... interrogé s'il n'auroit pas Connoissance d'une Berge appar- tenante a Mr Bentley qui descendoit le Mississippi comme lui Bolen Etant En hyvernement avec les Sauvages dans la Belle riviere a repondu qu'il avoit Vu une Berge chargée de farine, Mahis, Rum, Liqueurs, [Translation.] merchandise. And we have asked the said Daniel Coiel from what country he was. He has answered that he was Irish. And his testimony has been interpreted by M. Patrick Kennedy; and af ter.... [AU signed.] [Second testimony of Patrick Kennedy.] . . . . we have asked under what circumstances he had met M. Drouart at Daniel Murray's, when he (Murray) said to the former that, if the Bostonians arrived, he would see advantage therein for him. He has answered that he had heard the said Murray say to Drouart in conversation that, if the Bostonians arrived, he could not fail to be em- ployee!, since he was the most expert in affairs, and that he (Murray) would exert himself in his favor to put him in place; and after. . . [AU signed.] [Testimony of Hippolité Bolen.] .... We have asked if he did not have knowledge of a barge be- longing to M. Bentley which descended the Mississippi while he, Bolen, was wintering with the savages on the Ohio River. He has answered that he had seen a barge loaded with flour, corn rum, liquor, powder, lead
Page 35
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEPTEMBER n, 1777 35 poudre, plumb en Bare, Baies qui ont resté Environ huit jours sur la pointe de la Belle rivière Et quils tiroient chaque jour trois ou quartre coup de Baëte soir Et matin cependant ils Etoient Eloigné des Sauvages de trois où quatre lieux, qu'un des commis du dit Bentley qui Etoit avec les Sauvages, le Commis nommé Gimy fit partir deux autres anglois pour scavoir ce que c'etoit que ce coup de Baëte les quels anglois ont amené laditte Berge où Etoient les Sauvages vouabekakis qui a traitté quelque sac de farine Et Mahis et autres Liqueurs, de plus après quelques jours de traitte ils ont Parti pour revenir au Mississipi se Camper sur la pointe de la Belle rivière du Coté du sud disant qu'ils vouloient attendre des anglois qui venoient des nadché qui avoient des affaires avec Mr Bentley Et après avoir resté sept a huit jours audit Endroit ont chargé une pirogue de vivres munitions Et ont partis pour descendre le Mississipi Environt quartre lieus ils ont campé L Espace de trois jours avec la Berge des Bastonnois qui montoit de la nouvelle orleans, les ont recontré avec leurs charge quils ont pri dans la voiture dudit Bentley ce qu'il y avoit [Translation.] in bars, and shot, which had remained about eight days on the point of the Ohio and that they, each day, fired three or four shots (de Baete) evening and morning; yet they were distant from the savages three or four leagues. He further testified that one of the clerks of the said Bentley who was with the savages, the clerk named Jimmy, sent two other Eng- lishmen to know what the shots (de Baete) were. Thèse Englishmen brought back the said barge to where the Vouabekaki ' savages were, who traded some sacks of flour and corn and other liquors. Furthermore, after some days trading they set out to return to the Mississippi to camp on the point of the Ohio on the south side, saying that they wished to wait for some Englishmen who were coming from Natchez and had some business with M. Bentley; and after having waited seven to eight days at the said place, they have loaded a pirogue with supplies and munitions and have set out to descend the Mississippi. About four leagues down they have camped for the space of threedays with the barge of the Boston- ians which was ascending from New Orleans. They have met them with their cargo and the witness said that they have taken what was in the boat of the said Bentley, according to the report which was made to 1 Should be Ouabenaki, meaning east land or morning land. The name was given by Algonquin Indians to cognate tribes living to the eastward, and more particularly to the Abnaki in Maine and to the Delawares. Information obtained from Mr. F. W. Hodge, of the Bureau of Ethnology*
Page 36
36 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS dedans suivant le rapport que lui En ont fait le Commis dudit Bentley le meme Gimy Et après .... [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Pierre.] .... interrogé s'il ne s'Etoit pas Engagé au sieur Bentley pour faire un voyage a quoy a repondu qu'effectivement il s'Etoit Engagé audit Bentley pour Partir sous la direction du sr Bomer disant que c'etoit Pour le Poste vincennes, mais Etant En route ledit Bomer leurs dit qu'ils devoient aller dans la Belle riviere a un village anglois Etabli au depos de la chutte dans une riviere, interrogé de quoy Etoit chargé la voiture qu'il menoit a repondu qu'ils Etoient chargé autant qu'il a pu voir de vin Eaudevie, thé, jus d'orange, poudre, Bales fusils Et autres Marchandises Seches de plusieurs Especes Et apres .... [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Carbonneaux, notary public.] .... interrogé si le sieur Bentley n'auroit point été chez lui pour ui faire faire quelqu'ouvrages relatif a son metier, a quoy a repondu qu'Effectivement un jour au Environ le commencement avril dernier [Translation.] him concerning it by the clerk of the said Bentley, the same Jimmy; and after. . . . [AU signed.] [Testimony oj Pierre.] .... We have asked if he had not engaged himself to M. Bentley to make a voyage, to which he has answered that in fact he had engaged himself to the said Bentley to set out under the direction of M. Bomer, who said the expedition was for the Post Vincennes; but when they were en route the said Bomer told them that they were to go on the Ohio to an English village established above [?] the falls in a river. Asked with what the boat, that he conducted, was loaded, he answered that it was loaded as much as he could see with wine, eaudevie, tea, orange juice, powder, gun shot, and other dry merchandise of several kinds; and after. . . . [AU signed.] [Testimony of Carbonneaux, notary public.] .... We have asked if M. Bentley had not been at his house to have him perform some work relative to his profession, to which he has
Page 37
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEPTEMBER n, 1777 37 le sr Bentley auroit été chez lui lui demander d'aller sommer Mr de Rocheblave de luy un mandat de la somme de deux milles Et quelques cens livres a quoy le déclarant lui auroit repondu qu'il n'Etoit huissier pour retire ses payements Et qu'il pouvoit y aller luy même ledit Bentley luy répliqua que c'Etoit la Coutume En angleterre a quoy ledit déclarant lui répliqua que si il Etoit Muni d'ordre pour faire summa- tion Et contraindre Mondit sieur de rocheblave au payement qu'il Etoit prest de les mettre En Execution a Linstant, Bentley sorti, vers le soleil conchant Etant rentré chez ledit déclarant lui ayant mis En main le mandat dont il Est question mondit sieur de Rocheblave antrat par hazard chez ledit déclarant qui lui dit jai un mandat que Monsr Bentley m'a remis icy dont vous devés le payement Mondit sr de Rocheblave repondit donné le moy que je L'accepte Et le payeray demain le déclarant lui répliqua que le sr Bendey lui avoit dit qu'il ne vouloit pas qu'il L'acceptât Et qu'il Envouloit le payement toute suite, ledit Bentley vint trouver le déclarant chez le sr plasy Environ les neuf heures du soir lui disant venés En votre maison, je veux vous parler Et [Translation.] answered that in fact one day about the commencement of last April M. Bentley had been at his house to ask him to command M. de Rocheblave to pay him a draft for the sum of two thousand and some hundred livres, to which the déponent had answered that he was not a huissier to collect his payments and that he could go there himself. The said Bentley replied that it was the custom in England, to which the said déponent replied that, if he was armed with an order to make a summons and to constrain M. de Rocheblave to pay, he was ready to put it in exécution. Then Bentley went out and about sunset returned to the house of the déponent, and put in his hand the draft in question. By chance M. de Rocheblave entered into the house of the déponent, and the latter said to him, "I have a draft, for which you owe pay- ment, that M. Bentley has delivered to me." M. de Rocheblave answered, "Give it to me that I may accept it and I will pay it to- morrow." The déponent replied to him that M. Bentley had said to him that he did not wish him to accept it but he wanted the payment of it immediately. The said Bentley sought the déponent about nine o'clock in the evening at M. Plasy's and said to him, "Come to your house. I wish to speak to you." And when he had
Page 38
38 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Etant rendu chez le déclarant il lui dit faite moy un protest contre Mr de Rocheblave pour n'avoir pas voulu payer mon mandat a quoy le dit déclarant lui repondit pourquoy voules vous protester contre une per- sonne qui a voulu accepter ce jourdhuy votre mandat pour le payer demain Est ce L'heure de faire des protests vous ne voules donc Pas le faire dit celui cy, vous n'estes donc pas le notaire du public, vous êtes le notaire de Monsieur de Rocheblave seul, tout a L'heure je vais revenir un moment après il antra chez le dit déclarant déclarant [sic] accompagné du sr Daniel Murray devant lequel il vomit les paroles les plus indécent qui obligea ledit déclarant daller chercher les sr plasy Et pierre Blin craignant d'En venir au mains avec ledit Sr Bentley qui vouloit absolument faire faire le protest audit déclarant par faute dac- ceptation Et de payement dans le moment, et ledit Bentley voyant que ledit déclarant avoit du secours après Beaucoup de Paroles injurieuse tant d'une part que de L'autre s'est retiré avec ledit Daniel Murray lui disant qu'il scavoit ou porter ses plaintes Et après .... [AU signed.] [Translation.] returned to the home of the déponent, Bentley said to him, "Draw me up a protest against M. de Rocheblave for not having been willing to pay my draft," to which the said déponent answered, "Why do you wish to protest against a person who has been willing to accept to-day your draft and to pay it to-morrow. Is this the time to make protests?" "You do not wish to do it," said Bentley, "You are not then the notary of the public; you are the notary of M. de Roche- blave only. Presently I will return." A moment later he re-entered the house of the said déponent and was accompanied by M. Daniel Murray, in whose présence he vomited forth the most indécent words, which obliged the said déponent to seek M. Plasy and Pierre Blin, since he feared to corne to blows with M. Bentley, who wished absolutely to force the déponent to draw up the protest in default of instantaneous acceptance and payment; and the said Bentley, when he saw that the said déponent had assistance, after many injurious words on the part of both retired with the said Daniel Murray saying he knew where to carry his complaints; and after .... [AU signed.]
Page 39
COURT OF ENQUIRY, SEPTEMBER n, 1777 39 Et le même jour que de L'autre Part le sr Lachanse officer de milice Et juré de la Cour d'Enquête nous a déclaré que le printemps dernier s'etoit trouvé chez Mr de Rocheblave dans le Gouvernement a un conseil sauvage illinois [qui] arrive d'hivernement En présence du sr Bentley qui avoit taxé Mr de Rocheblave d'avoir fait piller sa voiture dans laquelle il y avoit de L'Eaudevie, Mr de Rocheblave demandât en sa présence aux dits Sauvages pourquoy ils avoient pillé de L'Eaudevie dans la ditte Berge et si c'Etoit lui qui leurs avoit donné telle permission, un des chefs de la nation S'etoit levé Et dit qu'il n'avoit jamais été fait mention de Mr de Rocheblave dans cette affaire, un autre sauvage nommé Patoka chef des Kaokias s'est levé parlant a Mr de Rocheblave, mon Père ce sont nos jeunes gens qui ne voudroient jamais voir d'Eaudevie quand ils sont En hyvernement par ce quils Boivent toutes leur pelterie, Et que leurs femmes Et leurs Enfants vont tout nud a quoy Mr de Rocheblave leurs repondit qu'ils ne dévoient Piller ny anglois ny françois et qu'ils ne dévoient faire tord a personne. [AU signed.] [Translation.] And the same day as of the other part M. Lachanse, officer of militia and juror of the court of enquiry' has declared to us that last spring he was at M. de Rocheblave's at a council for the government [ ?] with the Illinois Indians who had arrived from winter quarters and that there was présent M. Bentley who had accused M. de Rocheblave of having caused the pillage of his (Bentley's) boat, in which there was eaudevie. M. Rocheblave, in the présence of Bentley, demanded of the savages why they had stolen eaudevie from the said barge, and if it was he who had given them such permission. One of the chiefs of the nation arose and said that there had never been mention of M. de Rocheblave in this affair. Another savage, named Patoka, chief of the Cahokias, arose and spoke to M. de Rocheblave; "My father, it was our young men, who never wish to see eaudevie when they are in winter quarters, because they drink up ail their peltries and then their women and children go ail naked," to which M. de Rocheblave answered that they ought not to rob either the English or the French and that they ought to do wrong to no person. [AU signed.] >His n.ime does not appear in Rocheblave's instructions as a membero/ the court; but he signed regularly. For biog. notice, see post, pp. 50, n. 1, 414, n. 5.
Page 40
40 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Et ledit Jour Et an que de L'autre part nous Juré de la Cour d'En- quête, Certifions a qui il appartiendra que Monsieur de Rocheblave com- mandant Et juge sur la partie angloise des Illinois, n'a jamais fait d'in- justice a Personne tant anglois que françois Et que toutes les Procédures, il les a renvoyé pardevant des arbitres comme faisoit cydevant Monsieur Lord commandant avant lui Et Lorsqu'il a été obligé d'En nommer d'office il a choisi autant qu'il a été En son pouvoir de prendre moitié anglois Et moitié françois, qu'il a traitté avec humanité tous les anglois réfugiés En ce Poste Et leurs a donné tous secours qu'il a pu n'avons aucune connoissance qu'il ait fait la traitte d'Eaudevie avec les Sauv- ages, que quant il a tenu conseil avec les Sauvages il a toujours fait avertir Messiers les françois Et anglois cecy trouver qu'il n'a jamais parlé aux Sauvages qu'au nom du Roy d'engleterre Et qu'il ne s'est jamais servi que du pavillon anglois dans le temps qu'il Etoit nécessaire, qu'il a toujours reprimé les Sauvages Lorsqu'ils manquoient Et les a maintenu dans le Bon ordre Et que nous sommes contents de son Governement Et de sa justice Et avons signé le jour Et an que L'autre Part. [AU sigtted.] [Translation.] And the said day and year as of the other part we the jurors of the court of enquiry certify to whom it shall concern that M. de Rocheblave, Commandant and Judge in the English part of the Illinois, has never done any injustice to anyone either English or French, and that he has sent ail suits before arbiters as did heretofore M. Lord before him, and when he has been obliged to name arbiters he has chosen as far as it has been in his power half English and half French; that he has treated with humanity ail the English who have taken refuge in this post and has given them ail the assistance that he could. We have no knowledge that he has traded in eaudevie with the savages. We know that when he has held councils with the savages, he has always notified the French and English here; that he has never spoken to the savages except in the name of the king of England; and that, when it was necessary, he has never used any but the English flag; that he has always restrained the savages when they required it, and has kept them in good order; and that we are content with his government and his justice; and we have signed the day and year of the other part. [AU signed.]
Page 41
BENTLEY'S PETITION, OCTOBER 6, 1777 41 Petition of Thomas Bentley, October 6, 1777. [B. M., 21845, f. 12.—A. D. S.'] His Excellency, Sir Guy Carleton, Knight of the Bath, Captain General and Governor in Chief of the Province of Quebec, General & Commander in Chief of His Majestys Forces in the said Province & the Frontiers thereof, &c. &c. &c. The Petition of Thomas Bentley Humbly Sheweth That your Petitioner left the Illinois Country the 24th of May last with Mr de Rocheblave's passport to go to Missilimacinac where he arrivd after a very tedious & dangerous Passage on the 2 ist of July, when immediately on his landing his effects were seized by Major de Peyster & himself imprisoned. That on demanding the cause he was answered it was by orders from Lieutenant Governor Hamilton & that he must go to Detroit where his accusers were. That he obtaind Per- mission from Major de Peyster (upon finding security to be answerable for the amount to the Crown) to sell his Furs &c. That so restricted he lost on the article of Beaver only upwards of one Hundred & Fifty Pounds Sterling having been offerd so much more by another Person who coud not give the security required. That on his arrival at Detroit he demanded to know from Mr Hamilton the Cause of his Imprison- ment who informed him it was in consequence of a letter from Mr de Rocheblave but that there was not to his knowledge any deposition to support his charge. That on his expostulating with Mr Hamilton on the impropriety of such conduct, he inform'd the Petitioner that "He was above the Law acknowledging that what he was doing was illegal that no doubt he made himself liable to a prosecution but that it would not be in his Power to make any retaliation as he had nothing to lose & moreover that Government must support him in whatever he did." That the Petitioner beg'd Permission to return from thence to the Illinois offering security for his appearance if he did not clear the matter up; but all in vain. That his principal reason for undertaking so irksome & perilous a Voyage was in Order to secure a Remittance to his friends Mess" Walker Dawson & C°, and others in London to whom he is indebted & who are Gentlemen of known credit & well established Reputation. That the Detention of his Person & Property is equally injurious to them as to himself thereby unhappily depriving 1 This has been printed in the Mich. Hist. Collections, ziz, p. 331, from a copy in Canadian Archives.
Page 42
42 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS him of the means of satisfying his creditors. That he has been very ill-treated by Mr de Rocheblave at the Illinois by his oppressive & Tyrannical measures the said Rocheblave having seized his effects to a considerable amount refusing security for standing a fair Trial. That secure in his Innocence he left the Illinois unprovided for any defence & without settling his affairs in such a manner as to admit of his absence from that Country where his affairs are considerable & are now in a state of abandon & will be the more so the longer he is detaind having left no person behind him capable of transacting his Business. That he has a recent example of the fatality of his absence from that Country since its being abandon'd by Government as during an absence last Year to West Florida of not quite four months he was wrong'd of about Eight Thousand Dollars. That he was never in any of the Colonies now in Rebellion, nor is he to his knowledge acquainted with a single person amongst them. That confident of his Innocence & not conscious of having trans- gressed the Laws of his Country either in Word or Deed hopes Your Excellency will be pleased to call such an immediate enquiry into the matter that in justice to himself Family & Friends his Innocence may be as conspicuous as has been his accusation. That shou'd you not deem such an enquiry necessary he is ready of himself & by his friends to give such security as may be required not only for his future conduct but also for his appearance whenever Your Excellency shall think proper to have a farther Eclaircissement. That your Petitioner in full reliance on that Justice Impartiality & Humanity which have ever so justly distinguished Your character humbly flatters himself Your Excellency will be most graciously pleased to compassionate his Distresses & permit his immediate Return to his wife and family & Your Petitioner as in Duty bound will ever pray. Montreal the 6th October 1777. T. Bentley. [Endorsed:] Petition of Mr Bentley sent Prisoner on suspicion of being dis- affected to Government from Michilimachinac, 6th October 1777.
Page 43
A REGISTRATION, NOVEMBER 8, 1777 43 ARegistration, November 8, 1777. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 117.] L'an mil Sept cent soixante et dix et le Dixième jour du mois de Novembre avant Midy Est comparu au Greffe de la Ville des Kas- kaskia le sieur Richard Hanson le Quel Nous a requis de lui Enregistre Le pointé de le requête et le permis de saisir provisoirement qui suit ce que avons fait. Soit communiqué a M" Richard Winston et Patrick Kennedy faisant pour Mr Morgan Pour fournir débats si Bon leur senble Lundt dix du présent, fort Gage Le 8me obre 1777. signé Rocheblave au revert Est Ecri Au Jourd'huy dix novembre mil sept cent soixante et dix sept huis heure du matin sont comparu En vertu de notre ordonnance d'avant hier M" Richard Hanson, Patrick Kennedy et Richard Winston ces deux derniers ont déclarés n'être plus agents de Mr George Mais acqueri eurs de son bien quils disent avoir acquis et Payé surquoy nous avon- accordé audit sieur Richard Hanson saisie Provisoire sur tous les Effets [Translation.] On the morning of the ioth of November 1777, there appeared at the clerk's office in the town of Kaskaskia Mr. Richard Hansonl who required us to register for him the docket of a pétition and the per- mission to seize provisionally that which follows, which we have done. Let it be communicated to MM. Richard Winston and Patrick Kennedy acting for M. Morgan, so that they may furnish pleadings if they see fit, on Monday, the ioth inst. Fort Gage, the 8th of November 1777. (signed) Rocheblave. On the back is written: To-day, November ioth, 1777, at eight o'clock in the morning, appeared, in virtue of our decree of day before yesterday, MM. Richard Hanson, Patrick Kennedy and Richard Winston. Thèse last two have declared that they are no longer the agents of M. George [Morgan], but the purchasers of his goods which they claim to have purchased and paid for: wherefore we hâve accordcd to the aforesaid M. Richard 1 Very little has been found about him. He came to the Illinois country as a derk for Baynton, Wharton & Morgan. Consult Index of ///. Hist. Collections, fi.
Page 44
44 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS qu'il trouvera appartenir au Sieur George Morgan autant qu'il Provera n'avoir rien reçu Par Mr debemier suivant La Clause de la lettre de Mr George Morgan En vertu de laquelle Est accordée La ditte saisie, La ditte Lettre reconnue être de son Ecriture Par M" Patrick Kennedy et Richard Winston fort Gage Lan et jour que dessus. [Translation.] Hanson provisionary seizure of all the effects which he may find belong- ing to M. George Morgan, provided he shall prove that he has received nothing through M. Deberniere,1 according to the clause of M. George Morgan's letter, in virtue of which is accorded the said seizure, said letter recognized as being in his [Morgan's] writing by MM. Patrick Kennedy and Richard Winston. Fort Gage. The same year and day as above. Richard McCarty to John Askin, June 7,1778. [B. M., 21757, f- 7-—Copy.] Copy of a Letter from Mr Richard McCarty2 at Sl Urseuls at the Illinois the 7th June 1778, To Mr John Askin s at Michilimackinac. I beg you'll be so good as inform Major De Peyster that Mackinac the man I delivered him a Speech from last year, died before my arrival here, but that Pondiac Son to the Great Pondiac is gone to Detroit with some other Indians that came here this Spring, they seem well pleased with his Invitation & would have gone to Michilimakinac had the other been living, they seem well inclined to the English on all Accounts, Young Pondiac hopes for a Medal, they are so much my pro- tection as an English man that Indians daily Steal Horses from the Village & none from me, tho' mine are loose in the open field, the Con- voy is arrived, that is two Boats, one with a new Governor for the Spanish Side, the other under his Cover for the Americans with Liquors, & 150 Bails broad Cloth, blue, white & red, they are to be lodged at St. Louis opposite my place; untill they come for it. 1 The name appears occasionally attached to notarial documents in the Kaskaskia MSS. during the British period, but I have been able to discover nothing else concerning him. 1 Richard M'Carty was a merchant, evidently from Canada, in the village of Cahokia. He played an important part in the country after the occupation by the Virginians. See III. Hist. Collections, ii. (consult Index). Several references to him will be found in the Index to this volume 3 John Askin was a prominent trader at Detroit. He came west soon after the French and Indian War, was a commissary at Mackinac until 1780, when he was dismissed from the service. Many of his papers are in the collection of C. M. Burton, of Detroit, and in the Canadian Archives. Several references to his enterprises will be found in the 111. Hist. Collections, ii. (consult Index).
Page 45
DE PEYSTER TO HALDIMAND, AUGUST 15, 1778 45 Was there a few Troops here to encourage the Good, put heart in the weak and intimedate the bad, this Country might be preserved & the communication cut off, but as it has been, they have with about forty men going down the Ohio to Manchac last fall taken about 500 packs from English Subjects, 680 Negroes, much Dollars from the lower inhabitants, & a Brig of 14 Guns at Manchack with 40 men on board, & that taken by 14 men belonging to Willing the American Commander, he intimidated the People going before Spanish Boats & making the Inhabitants believe the Boats coming after were all Armed & of his Party, it is said that Morgan was to be here with 600 men last winter, but very likely he has something else to do. There is no news of any disturbance in Europe this way, God send us soon the much to be wished for news, of an union with England & her Col- onies, pray send us what news you can your way, the Spaniards it seems are in a bad condition for having seized the English Vessel at Orleans last year, & do encourage the English to come all in their power, having no Indian goods at all. I am Dr Sir Your most Obed* very humble Serv' (Signed) Richard McCarty. [Endorsed:] M. N°4. 1778. Copy of a letter from Mr McCarty at S* Ursuls in the Illinois giving an ace* of the proceedings of the Rebels in those parts, dated 7th June, enclosed in Maj. De peysters letter of 15th Aug. Major De Peyster to Governor Haldimand, August 15, 1778. [B. M., 21757, f. 47.—A. L. S.] MlCHIUMAKINAC, 15 Aug* 1778. Sir, The inclosed letter from Mr McCarty, a Trader from this post to the Illinois and one from S' Joseph's will give Your Excellency some insight into what is doing or likely to be done in that Quarter. Mc- Carty's Account is Confirmed by several people just arrived from the Illenois. I am also inform'd that reports are spread in all the Illenois Villages that the French are soon to take possession of that Country. As there are no troops to prevent the Virginians from going there,
Page 46
46 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS they have it in their power to spread reports and poison the minds of the Indians so as at least to make it very dangerous to traders . . . .l I have the Honour to be with the Greatest respect. Your Excellencys Most Hum1 & Obed' Serv* A* S. De Peyster. [Endorsed:] Michilimakinac 1778. Major Depeyster. 15th August. recd 8th Septr From Major De Peyster Commanding at Michilimakinac enclosing two Letters, one from Mr Macarty at S* Ursules in the Illinois giving an Ace* of the Rebels proceedings in that Post, dated the 7th June. The other from Louis Chevalier of S* Joseph of 26 July. Dated 15th Aug* 1778. Rec. 8 Sept. 1 The remainder of the letter relates to Louis Chevalier.
Page 46
I
Page 46
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page 46
P, ' \ 7 t I- rut-- 'r..!.r\\ - - 'k'' . - I. • tiiK - r' '' , - i N N1.- - '•* '•.M V'î!, I- i' ''!< .S '.' . \i ''. ifa - } '1 . l'<v. l!i •>• i '';-!..[t-to! • .-': J'.'v, 177S. [K. . t- -• -'t Ri. h.ir<l \V-T,;«^r.iYr,Il<»lr»WS!^^W CIJIAHDIH OT j Ï/.V. i •rn) you, ilu.l fi- .tn 'in- -:- . . reposal in yon,- J'atr.'; '.l.-m, Fin(!.' . ■ .ii are, l.y t'u-se I'm .entr,, < ons!,U,:<-d -. I he To\-n - of Ka.d<t\k'n.\ cr* /)</ - ■ '. fully and <iil,:^<p.iiy to ! • hat ue tin: 1 . t h.- .V M'ça, by <1< .n;.' a.-i'i |-U.S'. /c/rwjni.' i". Hr' hrn-'tfiini;; and yu an; lo pay a - '\'diT- a.u.J ln-'ru'-tion.-, !' f • i- T'. .- '- i.'.!!'.' t 1'iMrriu'jr, or i-'xcitne , . ! yo s' ;.i'rior )lT(.fr>. a^nvaMc - ,-n] - '- :'.u'rti.'ii or Gone-,! A.- - u tdi r . 1r ''ommaH air hen l.y v.- •i •. :' !'> your Orders, and to aid m!' I i/.S. lo"i] to the Jt. i t,t and i , - t. Iorn] I'atri' L lii-iry, hsipttn-, . • I -on. i non weal! h afon-,atd, at [\ .'' - Ycir of the Gr ^no.! '- -. *nr.I- nrint. it ir. it.i.t'.-s. hoi In KnrK. '. ' ^ w.inU o' t;w .1 C<..:i\, im . .' ... I.in i: 1:1. n i • * - < ri '• . 1 i -, <• ;(- . - 11:1- . . I . i -

. i . .' V. - . ... 1 V- -.NT- -: "- - •'> i .a; "" l (. .', ..t' i< o. ;• -; a- .' [j.--;-: -i') Cav.k — A :^c-. i.. n f !• Kii v.; - Joiiv Ti."i: '> \*T).
Page 46
FACSIMILE OF COMMISSION OF CAPTAI N OF MIL1TIA TO RICHARD WINSTON, JU1.Y, 1778

.—■
This page contains an image.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 47
CHAPTER II THE VIRGINIANS OCCUPY ILLINOIS, JULY 4. 1778, TO MAY 12, 1779 Governor Henry Appoints Winston Captain—Cerre Writes to Clark — Father Gibault, Dr. Laffont, and the Submission of VlNCENNES — SeGUIN'S ACCOUNT — GABRIEL CERRÉ — HARROD AND Williams Borrow Money — Instructions to Clark — A Procla- mation Concerning Slaves — Bentley's Friends — John Todd Appears — Father Gibault Sells Land. Patrick Henry's Commission to Richard Winston, July, 1778. [K. MSS.— Printed form, signed.1] The Commonwealth of Virginia. Richard Winston Esq, Greeting: [MS. torn] you, that from the special Trust and Confidence which is reposed in your Patriotism, Fidelity, [coujrage, and good Conduct, you are, by these Presents, constituted and appointed Captn of Militia in the Town2 of Kaskaskias 6V» its Dépendances. You are therefore carefully and dilligently to discharge the Duty of Captn Commandant of the Militia, by doing and [MS. torn]mmg all Manner of Things thereunto belonging; and you are to pay a ready Obedience to all 0[rders and] Instructions which from Time to Time you may receive from the Governour, or executive [MS. torn] for the Time being, or any of your superior Officers, agreeable to the Rules and Regulations MS. torn] [Convention or General Assembly. All Officers and Soldiers under your Command are hereby stric[tly MS. torn] and required to be obedient to your Orders, and to aid you in the Execution of this Com- mission, [MS. torn] to the Intent and Purport thereof. [MS. torn] Patrick Henry, Esquire, Governour or Chief Magistrate of the Commonwealth aforesaid, at [Williams]burg, this [no date] Day of July Year of the Commonwealth, Annoq. Dom, 1770'. P Henry. 1 The words printed in italics, not in brackets, are written. * The printed words of the form "County of " are crossed out. This document is another indica- tion of communication between Clark and the American traders previous to the former's expedition to Illinois, for it is evident from this that Clark came provided with blank forms signed by Governor Henry, because he expected to find persons sufficiently trustworthy to place in responsible positions. 47
Page 48
48 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Gabriel Cerré to George R. Clark, July n, 1778 [Draper MSS., 48J24.1—A. L. S.] Monsieur, Jai été extrêmement mortifié de ne mètre pas trouvé en mon dom- icile lors de votre arrivée aux Caskaskias. Jaurais eu L'honneur de vous donner des preuves de mon Entière Soumission a mes Supérieurs mais mon Etat étant dêtre marchand et par conséquent obligé de voyager dans les differens postes de ces pays pour faire Subsister ma famille, ma mauvaise Etoile ou pour mieux dire lhabitude annuelle ou je Suis de commencer mes voyages dans ce temps ont causé mon malheur et Suivant le bruit public mes Ennemis Jaloux des peines que je me donne me procurer une heureuse médiocrité ont profité de mon absence pour me noircir et me mètre mal dans lesprit des personnes dont je nai pas L'honneur dêtre connu bien persuadé que ma conduite passée et celle a venir vous étant connue une fois vous me rendrez le justice qui est due a tout bon Sujet soumis Je crains que dans le premier instant les faux raports de mes Ennemis ne portent quel [Translation.] Sir: I was extremely chagrined that I was not at home at the time of your arrivai at Kaskaskia. I would have had the honor of giving you proofs of my entire sub- mission to my superiors: but since my profession is that of a merchant and I am, consequently, obliged to travel to the différent posts of this country to make a living for my family, my unlucky star, or to speak more correctly the annual habit I have of commencing my journeys at this time, caused my misfortune. According to public rumor my enemies, jealous of the efforts I make to obtain a comfortable mediocrity, have profited by my absence to blacken me and destroy me in the opin- ion of persons to whom I have not the honor of being known.2 I am well persuaded that, when my past and future conduct are once known to you, you will render me the justice that is due to every good and sub- missive subject. I fear that in the first moment the false reports of my enemies may cause injury to my fortune, the only object of their hatred. 'This copy is made from the copy edited by F. J. Turaer, in the Amer. Hist. Rcvitw, viii., 408. s Compare Clark's account in English, Conqutsl e/ tkt Norlhimst, i, 484.
Page 49
WINSTON TO OFFICER OF THE GUARD 49 quateinte a ma fortune Seul objet de leur haine, dailleurs ayant entre les mains les affaires de deffunt Mr Viviat colloquées avec plusieurs per- sonnes des Caskaskias et qui demandent ma presence. Jose vous Suplier Monsieur de Vouloir bien maccorder un Suave conduit pour me trans- porter en mon domicile afin quen vertu dicelui je puisse me laver des accusations que Ion vous a fait contre moy et vaquer aux affaires qui mappellent au dit lieu. Cest la grace quespere de vous le Sujet le plus Soumis qui a L'honneur dêtre avec le plus profond respect Monsieur Votre très humble et très obéissant Serviteur Cerré A S' Genevieve le 11e Juillet 1778 [Endorsed:] Letters Inclosed in one Cover To Col° Clark July 11th 1778. [Translation.] Besides I have in my hands the affairs of the deceased M. Viviat to arrange with several persons of Kaskaskia, who require my presence. I venture to solicit you, sir, to have the goodness to grant me a passport to return home, so that I may clear myself of the accusations that have been made against me and attend to the affairs that call me there. This is the favor that the most submissive subject desires from you; and he has the honor of being with the most profound respect, sir, your very humble and very obedient servant. Cerré. Ste Genevieve, July 11, 1778. M. George Clark. Richard Winston to the officer of the guard. No date. [Draper MSS., 48J28.— A. L. S.] Sir1 I am to acquaint you that there is Something Incomprehensible a Carrying on in Town this night tis Suspected that Cerré is this Night 1 This undated communication must have been sent shortly after the occupation of Kaskaskia by Clark. At that time Gabriel Cerré was in St. Louis, and it was some days before Clark was able to secure his submission and support. The only period when Cerré's presence in the town would have been a source of danger fell between the time of the occupation and his submission. This would make the date of the note about July 7,1778. Clark's Memoir in English, W. H., Conquest 0} the Northwest. Î84. For the life of Gabriel Cerré consult the index of III. Hist. Collections, it., and "Jean Gabriel Cerré. a Sketch," by Walter B. Douglas, in Transactions of the 111. State Hist. Soc., 1003.
Page 50
So ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS in Town [MS. imperfect] of Mr L'Chance ' this I give you from mere hearsay and the Maneouvres I See Slighly Carried on by People in the Dark I am Sir Yours and the States Truely Faithfull friend and Humle Serv' Rich: Winston. [Addressed:] To the Officer of the Guard, Fort Clark. Jean Bte. Laffont to George R. Clark, August 7, 1778. [Archives of Archiépiscopal Palace, Quebec.— A. L. S.] A Monsieur le colonel George Roger Clark, présent. Je ne puis Monsieur qu'approuver ce que Monsieur Gibeaut a dit dans le contenu du journal s'il a obmit quelque vérité historiques qui auroient été dignes d'être racomptés ce qu'il a dit et [sic] la vérité peure, tout ce qu'il m'a prié d'ajouter et qu'il vous dira a vous même et m'a prié d'être présent, qu'il a Oublié et que dans tous les afferre civilles tant avec les françois qu'avec les Sauvages, il ne s'est mêlé de rien n'en ayant point d'ordre et cela étant contre son caractère et que J'en ay eu seulle direction luy même s'en étant tenu envers les uns et les autres a la seulle [Translation.] To Colonel George Roger Clark, present.' I cannot but approve that which M. Gibault said in the contents of his journal. [Even] if he did omit some historical truths which might have been worthy of narration, that which he said is the pure truth. All that he has begged me to add and which he will tell to you, and has asked me to be present (and which he forgot) is that in all the civil affairs, not only with the French but with the savages, he meddled with nothing, because he was not ordered to do so and it was opposed to his 1 Nicolas Caillot dit Lachanse was probably not in the village of Kaskaskia at the time of the occu- pation by Clark; for he had been taken prisoner by the boat under Captain Willing, who preceded Clark. Lachanse, like Cerré, belonged to the party supporting the British cause. (Mason, E. G., "Rocheblave Papers," in Chicago Hist. Society s Collections, iv., 408). I have been unable to collect information concerning Lachanse previous to this period. He became an important factor in Kas- kaskia politics, was elected judge in 1779 and 1787. During the period of anarchy following the abolition of the court by Winston, Lachanse attached himself to the party of John Dodge. He and his numerous sons moved to the Spanish side of the Mississippi between the years 1787 and 1790, and settled at New Bourbon and Ste. Genevieve, post, p. 414; Jit. Hist. Collections, ii. (Consult Index); Houck, L., Hist. o\ Missouri, i., 366. 3 For a discussion bf this letter and a biographical notice of Laffont, see Introduction. This letter, with others printed in this volume, as well as documents not included here, have been published by the editor in the Amer. Hist. Rev., April, 1909. The letter is printed in facsimile on the opposite page.
Page 50
FACSIMILE OF LETTER BY JEAN BTE. LAFFONT TO GEORGE ROGERS CLARK, AUGUST 7, 1778 r
This page contains an image.
Page 50
• '"l :'tci" .. - m tJ„. • ., < < -Jii'il n':; ,] .,j„.;, avec ]c - ^cy^gtfatjA '^U^iilU^ja^if ^iaO.HU ["-I''" <«.In: a cela étant u,Mn- s„n cara. 1î-r, et • '„ aV eu ImU' - - -n luy m. n;. >,,,cl,n< f,,.; my.-r- I. -; t,,, . ~u-,-, a la -r„I!,
Page 50
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page 50
Blank page
Page 51
LOUIS SEGUIN'S DEPOSITION 51 vocation; and that I alone had the direction of the affair, he himself having confined himself towards both French and Indians solely to exhortation tendante à la paix et a l'union et a empêcher l'effusion du sang ainsi Monsieur pour le temporal dont je suis chargé entièrement j'espère en avoir toute la satisfaction possible, m'étant comporté en tout avec une intégrité inviolable, mon zelle et ma sincérité me persuade que vous auré la bonté Monsieur d'accepter les voeux que j'ay l'honneur de faire pour votre personne et de me croire avec un respectueux atache- mens, Monsieur, Votre très humble et très obéisent serviteur Kaskaskias le 7e août 1778. Laffont [Translation.] exhortation tending towards peace and union and to the prevention of bloodshed; and so, sir, for the temporal affairs with which I am wholly entrusted, I hope to have all the satisfaction possible, for I acted in all things with an irreproachable integrity. My zeal and my sincer- ity persuade me that you will have, sir, the kindness to accept the good wishes which I have the honor to make to you, and to believe me, with a most respectful regard, Your very humble and very obedient servant, Kaskaskia, August 7th. 1778. Laffont. Deposition of Louis Seguin concerning capture of Vincennes. [Probate Court Record, April 24, 1832-Dec. 30, 1843, page 58, Chester, 111.] Personally appeared in open Court Louis Seguin aged seventy four years a respectable citizen of Kaskaskia, and known to the Court as a man of truth and veracity, who being duly sworn deposes and says that he was born and raised at Kaskaskia, Illinois, and has always lived there. That he was residing there at the time that place was captured by Colonel George Rodgers Clarke with the Virginian forces in 1778, and was then about ninteen years of age. That he together with the inhabitants generally, joined and supported the American Cause. That a few months after the capture, he was employed by Col. Clarke to- gether with another Creole by the name of Jojong, as a spy to go to Vincennes for the purpose of giving information to the citizens of Vin- cennes, who were friendly, of the state of things at Kaskaskia, and to
Page 52
52 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS advise them to be quiet and tranquil.1 That the army would be there accompanied by the citizens of Kaskaskia. He took a letter from Col. Clarke to Captain Helm as he believes, in this service this deponent lost a horse of the value of fifty dollars. He remained at Post Vincennes until Col. Clarke came there with his army, and was present when that place was captured, and took an active part with the American forces in the fight. He was nine days going to Post Vincennes with Jogong. After Post Vincennes was taken, the deponent was one of thirty men despatched by Col. Clarke up the Wabash River to overtake some British boats loaded with merchandise for the Indians, and with powder and clothing for the British soldiers.2 They succeeded in taking the boats and returned to Post Vincennes and remained there a month or more, and returned to Kaskaskia. He further deposes and says that the whole time he was in the service of Col. Clarke at Kaskaskia, at Vincennes and in taking the boats, was about two months. He further deposes and says that about a year thereafter he as one of sixty men under the command of a Major Langto or some such name, of the militia, in an expedition from Post Vincennes to Fort Clark or Fort Jefferson as some call it, at the Iron Banks on the Mississippi River, the expedition went in a boat and he was employed about eighteen days in going, and returning.3 He further deposes and says that he has never received one cent for the above services, nor any compensation whatever therefor, neither from the State of Virginia, or any of her officers, nor from the United States. 1 If the information of this deposition (dated 1834) is correct, and there seems to be only very little reason to distrust it, the paper adds something to our knowledge of the capture of Vincennes in Februa- ry, 1779. In none of the accounts by Clark or Bowman is there any mention of a message being sent to the people of Vincennes to warn them of the approaching assistance. In his "Letter to Mason" (English, Conquest oj the Northwest, i., 436) Clark writes that he sent off horsemen to Vincennes to take a prisoner from whom he might obtain information, but that they found it impracticable on account of high water. No doubt this was the expedition on which Seguin went, but his remembrance of its pur- pose was different from Clark's. Seguin's statement seems straightforward enough, and he was telling the story of one of the important events of his life, so it is possible that he remembered correctly. Ou the other hand, Clark had more important events to chronicle, and, besides this, it would have impaired somewhat the dramatic setting of his narrative, if the French people were expecting him. 2 Of this expedition Clark writes: "Knowing that Governor Hamilton had sent a party of men up the Ouabach to Ome for stores that he had left there, which must be on their return, I . . . dispatched Captain Helm with a party in armed boats, who surprised and made prisoners of forty." — Clark's letter to Mason, English, Conquest o\ the Northwest, i., 444. 3 In 1780 Fort Jefferson was besieged by Indians, and relief parties were sent from all the French villages. The party from Vincennes was under the command of Captain V. T. Dalton.
Page 53
MONFORTON TO CERRE, SEPTEMBER 22, 1778 53 M. MONFORTON tO GABRIEL CERRÉ, Sept. 22d, 1778. [B. M. 21782, f. 107.—Copy.] A. Mr Cerre aux Ilinois au Detroit le 22 Septembre, 1778. Monsieur, Avant de partir de Mehilimakinac je ne suis fait l'honneur de vous écrire; incertain si ma lettre vous est parvenue je vous reitre par celle ici la part que j'ai prise a vos disgraces quelque prévenu que je sois de votre Constance je ressens vivement et je partage toute la peine des mau- vais traitements qu' avec Monsieur de Rocheblave vous avez Eprouvés de la part de ceux qui traittent en Ennemis les personnes que l'honneur et la Religion tiennent soummis et fidelles a leur prince. Je suis français, Ce qu'en cette qualité, seulement je dois a Monsieur de Rocheblave; ce que d'ailleurs son Rang et son mérité m'impriment de respect et de veneration; Et ma Reconnoissance aux marques de La Bienveuillance dans les frequantes occasions que j'ai eu de le voir ches vous: m'intéressent egallement a son sort et je ne puis asses déplorer le fatal instant ou sans secours il a été surpris et traité, a ce qu'on rap- [ Translation.] Detroit, Sept. 22, 1778. To M. Cerré, in the Illinois. Sir: Before departing from Michillimackinac I had the honour to write to you. Uncertain as to whether my letter reached you I repeat in this letter the part I took in your misfortunes. However biased I may be in regard to your constancy, I feel keenly and share all the pain of the bad treatment which, with M. de Rocheblave, you experienced at the hands of those who treat as enemies the persons whom honor and religion retain in submission and faithfulness to their prince. I am French; what I owe to M. de Rocheblave in this quality alone interests me in his fate; but, beside that, his rank and his merit impress me with respect and veneration, as does also my recognition of the marks of his goodwill to me during the frequent occasions that I saw him at your house. For these reasons equally I am interested about his fate and I cannot deplore enough the fatal moment when without any succor he was surprised and treated, according to reports, in a manner that
Page 54
54 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS porte, d'une façon qui devroit moins intimider qu' indiquer Ceux que le Capitaine Lord avoit Confiés a ses soins. Le Capitaine Lord Pouvoit il choisir un successeur qui fut plus digne de cette affection que son amour pour la justice, son zelle pour le bien peublic, et son disinteressement lui avoint a juste titre méritée de la part des habitants des Ilinois; dont le sort serait véritablement a plaindre si la Providance ne leur envoyoit un prompt secours pour les aider a secouer un joug que sous l'apparence d'une chimérique indépendance on veut leur imposer quels avantages pourroint ils tirer de cette independence. La Conduite des américains dans leur invasion des Arcansas, et autres postes sans deffance, leur Contreventions au Droit des gens dont Monsieur de Rocheblave, qui le motif seul de se rendre utille a un peuple qu' une longue frequantation lui avoit rendu cher, a malheu- reusement ressenti les effets; promettent elles aux habitans des Ilinois des avantages plus réels que ceux que leur procure le gouvernment Britannique. Ils n'en ont pas joui, j'en conviens sous le Commandemant du Colonel Willkins mais les preuves qu'ils ont données de leur attachement [Translation.] ought to make indignant rather than intimidate those whom Captain Lord had confided to his care. Could Captain Lord have chosen a successor who was more worthy of that affection which his love for justice, his zeal for the public good, and his disinterestedness had gained for him on the part of the inhabi- tants of the Illinois, whose lot would indeed be worthy of pity, if Provi- dence does not send them a prompt assistance to help them shake off the yoke, which, under the appearance of a chimerical independence, some wish to put on them. What advantages could they draw from this inde- pendence? The conduct of the Americans in their invasion of Arkansas and other posts without any defence, their violation of the law of nations — of which M. de Rocheblave has unfortunately felt the effects, his only motive being to render himself useful to a people who were dear to him through a long association —do thèse things promise to the inhabitants of Illinois advantages more real than those which the British government procures for them? They did not enjoy them, I agrée, under the command of Colonel
Page 55
MONFORTON TO CERRE, SEPTEMBER 22, 1778 55 pour le Captaine Lord le Regret qu'ils on temoigné a son Depart semblent avoir detruit les fausses ideés que son predecesseur auroit pu faire naitre dans leurs esprits, et si comme moi ils eussent eu tant d'oc- casions de connoitre l'esprit et le caractere de la nation anglaise, comme moi ils seroint pleinement convaincus que le changement dont ils sont menacés ne peut que leurs etre funeste dans la suitte. Vous le saves Monsieur les Evenements et les circonstances ont donné lieu a des prejugés qui quoique fondés sur une incertitude asses embarassante, ne laissent pas que de partager les esprits et les opinions dans une conjoncture si facheuse. La France dit on a fait un traité de commerce avec les americains, la guerre par consequant doit etre declarée on peut donc se flatter de Revoir le canada soumis a ses Loix. La profonde et obscure ignorance ou l'on est dans un pais si eloigné du Continant ne permet gueres de s'arreter aux differentes nouvelles que les differantes interets rependent dans le peublic, je ne puis ni ne veux penetrer les secrets du Cabinet, il m' appartiendroit encore moins d'ex- aminer les raisons de politique de la france. [Translation.] Wilkins; but the proofs, which they gave of their fondness for Captain Lord, the regret, which they showed at his departure, seem to have des- troyed the false ideas which his predecessor might have caused to spring in their minds; and if they had had as many occasions to know the spirit and character of the English nation, as I have had, they would have been fully convinced that the change with which they are threatened cannot be otherwise than detrimental to them in its consequence. You know it, sir; events and circumstances have given occasion for precedents which, although founded on an incertitude quite embarrass- ing, do not fail to divide the minds and opinions in a conjuncture so unpleasant. France, they say, has made a commercial treaty with the Americans; war must be declared consequently; one can therefore expect to see Canada again subject to French laws. The profound and obscure ignorance, in which one lives in a country so far from the continent, hardly permits one to dwell upon various reports which different interests scatter among the public. I am not able nor do I wish to penetrate the secrets of the cabinet; it concerns me even less to examine the reasons for the policy of France.
Page 56
56 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Je suppose que pour l'interest de son Commerce elle ait jugé a propos de faire un traité avec les américains, a-elle prétende les engager a commetre des hostilités en Canada si en déclarant la guerre elle a intention de s'en rendre la maîtresse et que le succès reponde a son entreprise est il de son interest que les américains y établissent un em- pire dominant. Pourquoi donc, helas! trop prodigues de leur propre sang sont ils venus rependre celui de tant d'innocents que la bonne foi, l'honneur, le serment, la Religion et l'autorité de leur prince obligent de s'opposer a leur incursion. S'ils ont cru avoir quelque raison de se soustraire a l'obéissance du souverain, Le Canadien naturellement soumis et de bonne foi pouvoit il immaginer quelque prétexte pour les approuver et suivre leur exemple sans se rendre coupable et de purjure et de la plus noire ingratitude. Le gouvernement Britannique a-il rien négligé de ce qui pouvoit contribuer au Bonheur de ce peuple ses sages précautions dans les choix de ceux a qu'il confié son autorité pour le gouverner, sa prévoyance a établir la justice dont l'administration fut toujours donnée a des juges [Translation.] I suppose that in the interest of her commerce she has seen fit to make a treaty with the Americans. Has she pretended to engage them to commit hostilities in Canada? If by declaring war she has the inten- tion of becoming mistress of it, and if her success corresponds to her enterprise, is it her interest that the Americans should establish there a dominant empire? Why, then, alas! too extravagant with their own blood, have they, if they thought they had some reason to withdraw from the obedienee of their sovereign, come to shed the blood of so many innocent persons who are obliged, by their good-faith, honor, oath, religion, and the authority of their prince, to oppose their (Americans') incursion? Could Canadi- ans, naturally submissive and of good faith, imagine any pretext to sanction them in following their example without rendering themselves culpable both of perjury and of the blackest ingratitude? Has the British government neglected anything which might con- tribute to the welfare of its people? Its wise précautions in the choice of those to whom it gives authority to govern, its care in establishing justice whose administration is always given to judges as upright as
Page 57
MONFORTON TO CERRE, SEPTEMBER 22, 1778 57 egallement intègres qu' éclairés ses encouragements pour l'agrandisse- ment du commerce qui en si peu de tems etoit devenu si florissant n' etoint-ils pas un sur garant aux Canadiens de leur félicité. Les Américains ne pouvoint-ils pas jouir des memes prerogatives qui eussent elles été suivies des taxes selon eux onéreuses leur laissoit en- trevoir des avantages préférables a ceux qu'ils espèrent d'une indépendance qu'ils prevoyoint bien ne pouvoir acheter que par l'efusion du Sang et dont la postérité la plus reculie leur fera des justes reproches. Cet idole a qui ils ont sacrifie tant d'innocentes victimes n'a appresent que trop d'adorateurs dans cette partie de l'amerique au nombre des quels on a compté le pere Floquet. Si il est coupable de quelque tra- hison il a été sans doute d'autant plus dangereux que sa Correspondance a été trop long tems cachée en le cas ceux qui ont quelque Connoissance de l'institut de la Compagnie de Jésus doivent savoir la difference qu'il y a entre un franc jesuitte et un jesuitte franc et la conduite de Monsieur Carleton a ce sujet est une preuve bien autantique de l'idée que je veux donner de la douceur du gouvernement; Son Excellence n'ayant fait [Translation.] they are judicious, its encouragement for the development of commerce which in so short a time has become so flourishing, are not these a sure guarantee to the Canadians of their felicity? Were not the Americans able to enjoy the same advantages, which, had they been followed by taxes in their opinion burdensome, still allowed them to foresee advantages preferable to those which they expect from an independence, when they see very well that they will not be able to buy this except by the shedding of blood for which posterity, even the most remote, will make just reproaches to them? This idol, to which they have sacrificed so many innocent victims, has at present only too many adorers in that part of America, amongst whom Father Floquet1 has been counted. If he is guilty of some treason, he has been, without doubt, the more dangerous as his correspondence in the case was too long hidden. Those who have some knowledge of the Order of the Company of Jesus must know the difference there is between an out and out Jesuit and an honest Jesuit; and the conduct of M. Carleton in this matter is a very authentic proof of the idea I wish to convey concerning the gentleness of the government, His Excellency 1 Member of the Jesuit order, living at Montrcal.
Page 58
58 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS d'autre démarche dans une conjoncture si délicate que de le Recom- mander aux soins de Monseigneur Leveque. Le zele avec lequel sa grandeur avec son Respectable Cierge se soint portes a encourager les fidelles raffermir les chancellans et rappelles les Egarés ne laissant rien plus à craindre a son Excellance de la part du pere Floquet auroint du sans doute détruire dans tout le peublic les malheureux préjugés qu'il avoit cémentés dans l'esprit d'un peuple credulle et ignorant et dont un bonne partie aura été préservée par l'exemple éclatant de la noblesse et des gens de bien en Canada que l'honneur seul a armés pour la défiance de leur prince. Je ne prétends pas Monsieur meriger ici en fin politique ni donner a personne des leçons de ce qu'un fidelle sujet doit a son prince je ne suis ni dans un état ni dans aucun emploi qui m'y Engage. Ceux de vos amis de ma connoissance et a qui vous pourries faire part de la part que je prends a vos disgrâces et de ma sensibité [sic] aux fâcheuses con- jonctures qui nous affligent egallement n'ont pas besoin d'encourage- ment pour suivre votre Exemple s'il se presentoit quelque occasion de vous rétablir dans vos droits dont ils ne se verroint non plus que vous [Translation.] having taken no other steps in such a délicate conjuncture than to recommend him to the care of Monseigneur the Bishop. The zeal with which his lordship and his honorable clergy have worked to encourage the faithful, to strengthen the weak and to call back the erring, leaving nothing more for His Excellency to fear on the part of Father Floquet, ought to have destroyed, without doubt, in ail the public the wretched préjudices which he (Father Floquet) had implanted in the minds of a credulous and ignorant people, a great many of whom may have been preserved by the brilliant example of the nobility and the well-to-do in Canada who were armed by honor alone in the defence of the prince. I do not prétend, sir, to set myself up for a politician nor to give les- sons to anyone as to what a faithful subject owes to his prince. I am not in a position to do so nor in any employment which would engage me to do so. Those of your friends, with whom I am acquainted and to whom you may relate the part I take in your misfortunes and my regret for the vexatious conjunctures which trouble us equally, need no encouragement to follow your example, if some occasion were to présent itself to re-
Page 59
NOTE OF HARROD AND WILLIAMS, NOVEMBER g, 1778 59 dechus si sous les hospices Monsieur de Rocheblave vous eussies le moindre secours. Je vous prie Monsieur dans la reponse dont j'espere vous m'hon- oreres m'apprendre son sort et le lieu ou il est detenu impatiant de renvoir de ses nouvelles et des votres j'ai l'honneur d'etre tres sincere- ment Monsieur Votre tres humble et obe* serviteur M [MS. tor«]TON [Endorsed:] Copy letter from Mr Monforton at Detroit to Mr. Céres at Kaskaquias dated 22nd Sepf enclosed in Lieut. Govr Hamilton's Letter of the 4th Octr. Received 29th Marked Detroit N° 18. [Translation.] establish you in your rights, from which they would have seen them- selves no more than you fallen, if under the leadership of M. de Roche- blave, you had had the least help. I beg you, sir, that in the answer, with which I expect you will honor me, you will inform me of his (Rocheblave's) fate and of the place where he is held. Impatient to have news from him and from you, I have the honor to be very sincerely, sir, Your very humble and obedient servant, M[onfor]ton. Promissory Note of J. Harrod and J. Williams, November 9, 1778. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 147.] L'an mil sept cent soixante et dix huit et le vingt quatrieme Jour du mois de novembre au Greffe de la ville des Kaskaskias au pais des Illinois Est comparu le sr françois ferrant commis de Mr Charles Gratiot lequel nous a requis de luy Enregistrer l'obligation qui suit ce que nous avons fait. [Translation.] In the year 1778, on the 24th day of the month of November, there appeared at the clerk's office of the town of Kaskaskia in the Illinois country M. François Ferrant, clerk of M. Charles Gratiot, who has required us to register for him the following promissory note which we have done.1 1 The documents marked as above, K. MSS., Court Record, are all copied from a volume of simi- lar records, among which is the record of the session of the court established by Colonel Wilkins in 1768. Many of the records entered by the clerk are introduced by the formula preceding this document. In order to save space this formula has been omitted in the case of the other documents, and the date of entry, when given, noted in the heading.
Page 60
6o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Know all Men by these Presents that we James Harrod & John Williams- both Captains in the service of the United States of America are held & firmly bound unto Charles Gratiot of the Village Cashout [Cahokia] merchant in the sum of Two Thousand Eight hundred & Eighty Spanish milled Dollars to be paid to the said Charles Gratiot or his certain Exers, administrators or assigns, for which payment to be well and truely made we Bind & oblige ourselves & each of us by him- self his Heirs Ececuters & administrators firmly by these Presents Sealed with our Seals dated the ninth of November in the third year of the Independence & in the year of our Lord 1778. The condition of this obligation is such that if the above bounden James Harrod & John Williams their heirs Executors & administra- tors, do & shall well & truly pay or cause to be paid unto the above named Charles Gratiot his heirs administrators or Assigns, the full sum of Fourteen hundred & forty Spanish Dollars on the first Day of March next ensuing the date of the above written obligation without fraud or further delay; then this obligation to be void otherwise to remain in full force & virtue. Signed James Harrod, Jno Williams Signed Sealed & Delivered in the presence of us, Signed Test. Angus Cameron Richard Winston Instructions to George Rogers Clark from the Governor Patrick Henry, December 15, 1778.1 [Dr. MSS., 60 J 1.— Copy from Virginia State Archives.] Sn<: You are to retain the command of the troops now at the several posts in the county of Illinois and on the Wabash, which fall within the limits of the county now erected and called Illinois county, which troops marched out with and have been embodied by you. You are also to take the command of five other companies raised under the act of Assem- bly which I send herewith, and which, if completed as I hope they will speedily [be, will] have orders to join you without loss of time, and are likewise to be under your command, with your whole force you are to protect the inhabitants of the county, and as occasion may serve, to annoy the enemy. It is thought the Indian nations may be overawed and inclined to peace with us by the adoption of proper measures with you. 1 These instructions were enclosed in the succeeding letter.
Page 61
HENRY TO CLARK, DECEMBER 15, 1778 61 Or if that cannot be effected that such of them as send out parties toward our frontiers on this side of Ohio may be chastised by detachments from your quarter. For this purpose it will behoove you to watch their mo- tions, and to consider that one great advantage expected from your situ- ation, is to prevent the Indians from warring on this side of Ohio. In order more effectually to prevent this, you are to establish such posts in different parts of the county as you judge best for your troops to occupy. I consider your further success as depending upon the good will and friendship of the Frenchmen and Indians who inhabit your part of the Commonwealth: with their concurrence great things may be accom- plished; but their animosity will spoil the fair prospect which your past successes have opened. You will therefore spare no pains to conciliate the affections of the French and Indians. Let them see and feel the advantage of being fellow citizens and freemen. Guard most care- fully against every infringement of their property, particularly with respect to land, as our enemies have alarmed them as to that. Strict and even severe discipline with your soldiers may be essential to pre- serve from injury those whom they were sent to protect and conciliate. This is a great and capital matter and I confide that you will never lose sight of it or suffer your troops to injure any person without feeling the punishment due the offence. The honor and interest of the state are deeply concerned in this, and the attachment of the French and Indians depends upon a due observance of it. John Todd,1 Esq. being appointed County Lieutenant according to law during pleasure, with ample power confined chiefly to the civil department, will have directions to act in concert with you whenever it can be done. On your part you will omit no opportunity to give him the necessary co-operation of the troops when the case necessarily requires it. Much will depend upon the mutual assistance you will occasionally afford each other in your respective departments, and I trust that a sin- cere cordiality will exist between you — the contrary will prove highly detrimental. Some measures will be fallen upon for carrying on a trade to supply goods for the inhabitants of your county. You will afford the agents such aid or protection from time to time as affairs require and your circumstances will permit. I send you herewith some copies of the act of government and Bill 1 John Todd's connection with the County of Illinois is given in detail in the Introduction to III. Hist. CoUeclitms, ii.
This page contains an image.
Page 62
62 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS of Rights together with the French Alliance: These will serve to shew our new friends the ground upon which they are to stand, and the support to be expect[ed] from their countrymen of France. Equal liberty and happiness are the objects, to a participation of which we invite them. Upon a fair presumption that the people about Detroit have similar inclinations with those at Illinois and Wabash, I think it possible that they may be brought to expell their British masters and become fellow- citizens of a free state. I recommend this to your serious consideration, and to consult with some confidential persons on the subject. Perhaps Mr. Gibault the Priest (to whom this country owes many thanks for his zeal and services) may promote this affair. But I refer it to you to select the proper persons to advise with and to aid as occasion offers. But you are to push at any favorable occurances which fortune may present to you. For our peace and safety are not secure while the enemy are so near as Detroit. I wish you to testify to all the subjects of Spain upon every occasion, the high regard and sincere friendship of this commonwealth towards them, and I hope it will soon be manifest that mutual advantages will derive from the neighborhood of the Virginians and the subjects of his Catholic Majesty. I must observe to you that your situation is critical, far detached from the body of your country, placed amongst French, Spaniards and Indians, strangers to our people, anxiously watching your actions and behavior and ready to receive impressions favorable or not so, of our commonwealth and its Government, which impressions will be hard to remove, and will produce lasting good or ill effects to your country. These considerations will make you cautious and circumspect. I feel the delicacy and difficulty of your situation, but I doubt not your virtue will accomplish the arduous work with honor to yourself and ad- vantage to the state. The advice and assistance of discreet good men will be highly necessary. For at the distance of your country, I cannot be consulted. General discretionary powers will therefore be given you to act for the best in all cases where these instructions are silent and the law have made no provision. I desire your particular attention to Mrs. Rocheblave and her chil- dren, and that you suffer them to want for nothing. Let Mr. Roche- blave's property, which was taken, be restored to his lady so far as it can be done. You have the sum of sixty pounds sent for her use, in case you can't find her husband's effects to restore.
Page 63
HENRY TO CLARK, DECEMBER 15, 1778 63 Prudence requires that provisions be laid in to subsist the troops you have, and those to be expected to arrive with you. Col. Bowman has contracted to deliver 35000 lb bear bacon at Kentucky, but bread must be had at Illinois. You will provide it if possible before the arrival of the troops or the necessity to buy it becomes generally known, as perhaps advantage may be taken by raising the price. Lay up also a good stock of powder and lead. There is a cargo of goods at a Spanish post near you belonging either to the Continent or this State. Rather than let your troops be naked you are to take a supply for them out of these goods. But this is not to be done but in case of absolute necessity. Let an exact account be kept of what is used and let me receive it. In your negotiations or treaties with the Indians you will be assisted by Mr Todd. Let the treaties be confined to the subject of amity and peace with our people, and not to touch the subject of lands. You may accept of any services they offer for expelling the English from Detroit or elsewhere. In case you find presents to the savages necessary, make them sparingly as possible, letting them know our store of goods is small at present, but by means of our trade with the French and other nations we expect plenty of goods before it is long. Col. Montgomery will convey to you ioooo£ for payment of the troops and for other matters requiring money; in the distribution of it you will be careful to keep exact accounts from time to time, and take security where it is proper. I am &c I send you a Col0" Coffiission & some Blanks. yrs as above P. Henry. [Addressed:] To Colos Geo. R. Clark Governor Patrick Henry to Col. George Rogers Clark, Decem- ber 15, 1778. [Draper MSS., 48 J 49.—A. L. S.] Sir: WmsBURGH, Dec1" 15th, 1778. Myers your Express has been kept here a long time. I laid your letters before the Assembly who are well pleased with your conduct & have thanked you. The Messenger waited for the passing the Act I send herewith. I thank you also for your Services to the Comonwealth, & hope you'll stil have Success. Mr Todd is appointed to the County Lieu-
Page 64
64 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS tenancy. A Commandant as described in the Act is a civil Officer, & considering he is to hold his office during pleasure, it has been judged incompatible with any military Office. You would have had it, had there been found any propriety in annexing it to military Comand. Mr. Todd being a man of merit, I have no Doubt he will be acceptable to you & all your Corps. Let me hear from you often as possible. I beg you will present my Compliments to Mr Gibault & Doctr Lafong & thank them for me for their good Services to the State. I send you a Copy of the French Alliance & some other Papers, by seeing which the people will be pleased, & attached to our Cause. I refer you to the Instructions I send herewith, & wishing you Safety & Success am Sir Yr mo. hble Servant P. Henry. P. S. The president of Congress has this moment assured me that the English apply'd to Spain to mediate a peace with France. The King of Spain highly resented the Terms offered by the English & put her whole Forces in Motion last Sep* when every Day 'twas expected Hostilitys ag** the English would be coffienced. The Count D'Estaing the French admiral has lately invited the French in Canada to take up Arms & join the Americans, & has in his Masters Name promised to support them. Let this be known everywhere in your Quarter. Proclamation by George R. Clark, December 24, 1778. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 152.— Recorded December 26, 1778.] George Rogers Clark Ecuyer Colonel Commandant la partie or'en- tale des Illinois et ses dependences &c. Proclamation. Sur les plaintes qui nous ont été addressees par les differens habitans [Translation.] George Rogers Clark Esquire, commanding the eastern part of Illinois and its dependences, etc. Proclamation.1 On Account of the Complaints, which have been addressed to us by 1 For the troubles with the slaves, consult ///. Hist. Collections, ii, 13 et seq.
Page 65
PROCLAMATION BY CLARK, DECEMBER 24, 1778 65 de cette rive, par leurs requêtes qui nous a été présentée le vingt deux du Current, tendante a ce qu'il nous plut remédier aux desordres, abus et Brigandages qui durent depuis Long-temps, causée par le trop grande liberté dont jouisse les Eclaves rouges et noirs, qui les Empêchent de Vanquer[?] aux differens ouvrages aux quels leurs maîtres les Em- ployent qui causent la perte totale de cette colonie, nous En conséquence des susdittes plaintes et pour maintenir le bon ordre dans toute L Etendue de ce pais il nous a Plut ordonner et ordonnons ce qui suit sçavoir. 1. Deffendons et faisons très Expresse inhibition a toute Personnes de quelque qualité quelles puissent être de vendre ou faire donner ou traitter aucune Liqueurs enyvrant sous quelque prétexte que se soit et En quelque petite où grande quantité que se puisse être, aux Esclaves rouges et noirs sous peine de vingt Piastres Demande pour la premier fois et du double s'il recide dont le Dénonciateur en recevera la moitié. 2. Deffendons a toutes personnes de cette rive de pretter où Loiiir Gratuitement a aucun Esclaves rouges où noirs leurs maison où Bâti- ments même leurs cours pour y danser après le soleil couché où la nuit [Translation.] several inhabitants of this bank through their pétitions, presented to us the twenty-second of the current month, in which they beg us to remedy the disorders, abuses, and brigandage of so long duration, that has been caused by the too great liberty enjoyed by the red and black slaves, a liberty that prevents them from accomplishing the différent pièces of work in which their masters employ them, and is thus causing the total loss of this colony: in conséquence of the aforesaid complaints and in order to maintain good order in the whole extent of this country, it has pleased us to ordain and we do ordain what follows: to wit, 1. We forbid and prohibit very expressly ail persons of whatsoever quality they may be from selling to, causing to be given to, or trading with the red and black slaves any intoxicating liquors under any pretext whatsoever and in any quantity, little or big, under penalty of twenty piastres fine for the first offense and of double, if it is repeated; of which fine the accuser shall receive half. 2. We forbid ail persons living on this bank to lend or rent gratuit- ously to any red or black slaves their house, buildings, and courts, after sunset or for the night, for the purpose of dancing, feasting, or holding
Page 66
66 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS pour y festiner où y faire des assemblées nocturnes sous peine de Quar- ante Piastres demande Pour la première fois et du double s'il récidive dont le denunciateur En recevera la moitié, cependant n'Entendons pas Empêcher Que les dits Esclaves rouges où noirs prennent leur ré- création Les dimanches où fêtes a danser moyennant que se soit le jour seulement et que les dits Esclaves soyent Pourvu d'un Parmi [sic] signé de leur maître pour cet Effet pour lors toutes Personnes pourront leurs Louer où pretter leur maison Pour y danser dans le jours sans aucune gêne. 3. Deffendons pour prévenir les vols et lareins des Esclaves rouges où Noirs a tous Esclaves de sortir de la maison où cours de leurs maître après la retraitte Battue a moins quils ne soyent pourvu d'un parmi signé de leur dit maître qui ne leur sera accordé que dans le Cas de nécessité qui ne pourra leur servir que pour une fois, ceux qui En sorti- ront sans être muni dudit parmis apprès la retraitte Battue seront fustigé au dépens de leur maître En place publique de trente neuf coups de fouet, Pareillement celui qui ira d'un village à l'autre sans être muni d'un parmis de son maître subira le même châtiment et s'il récidive il sera doublement Puni et toujours au dépends de son maître. [Translation.] nocturnal assemblies therein, under penalty of forty piastres fine for the first offence and of double, if it is repeated; of which fine the accuser shall receive half. We do not intend, however, to prevent the said red or black slaves from taking their récréation in dancing on Sundays and feast days; provided it is during the day time, and the said slaves xe fumished with a permit signed by their masters to the effect that ail persons can rent or lend them their houses for the purpose of dancing without restraint during the day. 3. In order to prevent thefts and robberies by red and black slaves, we forbid them to go out of the house or court of their masters after tattoo is beaten unless they are provided with a permit signed by their said master, and this shall be granted them only in case of necessity and can be used only once. Those who shall go out after tattoo is beaten, without being furnished with the said permit, shall in a public place be given thirty-nine strokes of the whip at the expense of their masters. Likewise he who shall go from one village to another without being furnished with a permit from his master shall suffer the same
Page 67
PROCLAMATION BY CLARK, DECEMBER 24, 1778 67 4. Enfin deffendons a toutes personnes d'achepter où Echanger avec les dits Esclaves rouges où noirs aucunes denrées cochons ou bois ni autre que se puisse être sans que les dits Esclaves ne soyent munis d'un parmis de leurs maître pour vendre où Echanger les dittes denrées et ce sous peines d'une amende arbitraire par les contreveneurs a notre présente proclamation. 5. Enjoignons a tous capitaines officiers de milices et autres Partic- uliers de tenir la main a L'Execution de la présente Proclamation et a tous Blancs d'arrêter les Esclaves rouges où noirs qu'ils remontreront dans les rues de chaque village de cette rive après la retraitte Battue où huit heurs, Pareillement les Esclaves qui se trouveront dans des cabannes d'autres Esclaves que celles de son maître après la ratraitte battue où huit heures du soir seront aussi arrêté et fustigé de trente neuf coups de fouët En place publique et au dépends de son maître et celui qui arrêtera un ou Plusieurs Esclaves après la retraitte Battue où huit heures du soir soit dans la rue où dans une cabanne qui ne sera pas la demeure de l'Esclave, recevera que [sic] Piastre sur le charge du [Translation.] chastisement; and if it is repeated, he shall be punished with twice the number of strokes, always at the expense of his master. 4. Finally we forbid ail persons to buy from, or exchange with, the said red or black slaves any goods, commodities, pigs, wood, or other things whatsoever, unless the said slaves are furnished with a permit from their masters to sell or exchange the said commodities; and this under penalty of an arbitrary fine payable by the transgressors of this our présent proclamation. 5. We enjoin ail captains, officers of the militia, and other individuals to enforce the exécution of the présent proclamation, and ail white men to arrest the red or black slaves whom they shall meet in the streets of each village of this bank after tattoo is beaten or eight o'clock in the evening; and likewise the slaves who shall be found after the beating of tattoo or eight o'clock in the evening in the cabins of other slaves than those of their master shall be also arrested and, in a public place, beaten with thirty-nine strokes of the whip at the expense of their masters; and he who shall arrest one or several slaves, after the beating of tattoo or eight o'clock in the evening, either in the street or in a cabin which is not the dwelling place of the slave, shall receive [que ?] piastres
Page 68
68 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS maître au quel appartiendra L'esclave qui aura été arrêté par chaque tête. 6. Sera notre présente proclamation affichée a la porte de chaque Eglise des village de cette rive pour que personnes n'en puisse ignorer. Donné au fort Clark sous le sceau de nos armes et le seing de notre secrétaire le 24me Xbre 1778. Par Monseigneur signé G R Clark Signé Jean Girault Carbonneaux, Greffier [Translation.] for each slave who shall be arrested, at the charge of the master to whom the slave shall belong. 6. Our présent proclamation shall be posted on the door of each church of the villages of this bank so that no person can be ignorant thereof. Given at Fort Clark under the seal of our coat of arms and the sig- nature of our secretary, December 24, 1778, by Monseigneur (signed) G. R. Clark. (Signed) Jean Girault. Carbonneaux, Clerk. Pétition of widow of Antoine Cottinault, February 18, 1779. [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] A Messieurs Les Capitaines et officers de Milices Commandants La ville des KasKasKias au Pais des Illinois Par ordre de Monsieur George Rogers Clark Ecuyer Colonel Commandant Les forces des Etats unis de L'Amérique &c &c &c Messieurs: Raymond Labriere agissant et faisant au nom de Dame Veuve [Translation.] To the Captains and Officers of the Militia,1 commanding the village of Kaskaskia in the country of the Illinois by order of M. George Rogers Clark, Colonel Commanding the forces of the United States of America etc. etc. etc. Gentlemen: Raymond Labriere, representing and acting in the name of the 1 This pétition is interesting, because it offers some proof, not conclusive, that Clark did not erect, in 1778, a court at Kaskaskia, similar to that at Cahokia. Sec ///. Hisl. Collections, ii.t pp. xlvj., and 4.
Page 69
A PETITION, FEBRUARY 18, 1779 60 antoine Cotinault sa Belle mere, habitante demeurante a la Prairie Durocher a L'honneur de vous exposer disant Que le sieur Lionnais faisant fonction de scribe chez le sieur Barbeau Capitaine de Milice Et Commandant Ledit Lieu de la Prairie du Rocher &c, Est venu trouver Le matin que mon Beaupere Etoit sur les planches, La ditte veuve chez elle, lui disant qu'il Etoit nécessaire que la ditte veuve présenta requête a Mr. Le Colonel [MS. torn] clark Ecuyer Commandant &c [MS. torn] lui faire sçavoir le mort de son feu mary Et Pour faire Elire un tuteur a ses Enfans mineurs a quoi La ditte Dame lui repondit ingenuement Qu'elle n'Entendoit rien aux affaires, mais Qu'elle ne vouloit pas faire faire de requête Pour cette Effet et qu'il importait peu à Monsieur Le Colonel dêtre instruit de la mort de son dit mary Cela n'a pas Empêché que le dit sieur Lionnais En a faite une, et ne pouvant la ditte veuve Pénétrer les raisons qui ont Engagé ledit sieur Lionnais a faire une chose dont elle ne l'avoit pas prié et En son nom il ne peut y avoir que des motifs D'interests qu'il y ait Engagé soit pour lui où Pour quelques autres. Le Lendemain au matin Ledit Sr Lionnais Entra chez la [MS. torn] Portant la requête qu'il [MS. torn] présenta pour la signer ce [Translation.] widow of Antoine Cottinault, his mother-in-law, a résident citizen of Prairie du Rocher, has the honor to inform you that M. Lionnais, acting in the capacity of scribe at the house of M. Barbau, captain of militia and commanding the said place of Prairie du Rocher etc., came, the morning that my father-in-law had passed away, to seek the aforesaid widow in her own house, and said to her that it was necessary that she should présent a pétition to Colonel [George Rogers] Clark Esquire Commandant etc., to inform him of the death of her late husband, and to have a guardian chosen for the minor children, to which the said lady replied to him frankly that she understood nothing about business, that she did not wish to have made a pétition to that effect, and that it little concerned the colonel to be informed of the death of her said hus- band. That did not prevent the said M. Lionnais from making a pétition; and the aforesaid widow, not being able to understand the reasons that impelled the afore-mentioned Lionnais to do something that she had not asked him to do and in her name, [thought that] there could only be interested motives that enlisted him in it, whether it be for himself or for others. On the morning of the following day, the
Page 70
70 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS qu'elle [MS. torn] faire, cela n'a pas Empêché que cette même requête, sans être signée de la ditte veuve, n'ait été présentée En son nom a Mr. Le Colonel Qui y mit son apointé, par lequel il permettoit à la ditte veuve de faire Elire un subrogé tuteur a ses mineurs et de faire pro- céder a Linventaire, Croyant dans le moment qu'il En Etoit requis Par la ditte veuve ne pensant pas que l'on surprenoit sa justice, Equité et même sa religion que l'on agissoit que pour des vues d'interests. Le dit suppliant vous fait remarquer messieurs que le dit sieur Barbeau En sa qualité de Juge de la prairie du Rocher [P]eut forcer la ditte [MS. torn] Elire un tuteur a ses Enfans [MS. torn] Ditte veuve ne peut saine- ment procéder a aucun arrangement d'ici a un Longtems Premièrement La Crainte et la timidité ou Est La Colonie En général par rapporte aux sauvages qui pourrait arriver dans Quelque Endroit de cette même Colonie qui y rassesoit les Bêtes a Cornes qui Est la raison Pourquoy le suppliant ne veut pas ramasser celles qui appartiennent a sa ditte Belle-mere. [Translation.] aforesaid Lionnais entered [the house of the said widow], carrying the pétition which he had made and presented it to her for her signature, to which she [would not consent]. That did not prevent this same pétition, without the signature of the aforesaid widow, from being presented in her name to Colonel Clark, who put thereon his approval * by which he permitted the aforesaid widow to have a surrogate guardian chosen for her minor children and to proceed with the inventory, be- cause he believed at the moment that the pétition was made by the aforesaid widow, and he did not think that anyone was abusing his justice, equity, and even his religion, or prosecuting the affair only for his own interest. The herein aforementioned suppliant brings to your attention, gentlemen, that the aforementioned Barbau, in capacity of judge of the Prairie du Rocher, can force the said [widow to have] elected a guardian for her minor children [and that] the said widow can not safely go forward with any arrangement for some time to come: Firstly, the dread and fear of the colony in gênerai on account of the savages who may come into any part of this same colony and kill the cattle, is the reason that the suppliant does not wish to assemble the cattle that belong to his aforementioned mother-in-law. 1 The phrase mcans that he entered the pétition on the docket and permitted action to be taken.
Page 71
A PETITION, FEBRUARY i8, 1779 71 Secondement Le dit sieur Cottinault Beau Père du dit suppliant ayant Créé beaucoup [MS. torn] il n'a pas Laissé d'argent fait [MS. torn] les acquitter [ ?] et ne pouvant le faire Qu En vendent quelqu'Effet comme boissons et autres choses semblables troisièment une Quantité de Cuire qui sont dans le tems sils Etoient remués qui Deviendroient En pure perte pour les Créanciers et pour les mineurs s'ils venoient a être dérange C'est pour ce Considères Messieurs qu'ils vous Plaisent ordonner et permettre audit suppliant De faire travailler a la tanerie de feu son Beaupere pour pouvoir satisfaire ses Deptes, lui accorder un temps suffisamment Long Et que la Colonie soye tranquille Pour que sa ditte Belle Mère puisse prendre [les] arrange- mens avec ses heriteurs et que [MS. torn] sera nommé pour tuteur a ses [mineurs] qu'elle même La direction des Biens et Corps lui appartenants de Droits de Deffendre audit Sr. Barbau de ne La troubler En aucune façon dans la paisible possession de ses Biens Jusqu'à ce que Mr. le Colonel soit de retour de sa Compagne se reserv[ant] le suppliant de lui faire Connoitre ses Droits, de lui permettre En outre de rasmasser Les [Translation.] Secondly, the aforesaid Cottinault, father-in-law of the said suppliant, contracted many [debts for which he] has left no money; and it is impossible to pay them except by selling some goods such as beverages and other similar things. Thirdly, there is a quantity of hides which are in such a condition [that] if they should be moved and disturbed they would become a com- plète loss to the creditors and the minor heirs. For thèse considéra- tions, gentlemen, [the suppliant pétitions] that it may please you to order and permit him to start up the tannery of his late father-in-law, in order to satisfy his debts, and to allow him a sufficiently long time; and [he hopes] that the colony may be quiet so that the aforementioned mother-in-law may be able to make a settlement with the heirs; and [he pétitions] that the aforesaid widow be named as the guardian of her children, that she likewise be given the direction of the goods and chattels, belonging to her by right; [and that you] prohibit the said Barbau from troubling her, in any way, in the peaceable possession of her goods; until such a time as M. the Colonel may return from his campaign, the suppliant reserving for himself the right to make known to him his claims; also that you permit him to assemble the debts of his
Page 72
72 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS deptes de feu son Beaupere pour payer la où il Est du Ce faisant le supplient ne cessera de faire les voeux les plus ardens pour votre santé et prospérité lequel a Déclaré ne scavoir signé a fait sa marque ordinaire KasKasKias le i8me février 1779. Raimund X L [MS. torn] Marque. Nous Capitaines et officiers de Milices Commandants La ville des KasKasKias et ses dépendances au pais des Illinois En vertu des pouvoirs qui nous a été donné par Monsieur George Rogers Clark Ecuyer Colonel &c Vus par nous dits soussignés L Exposé En la présente requête cy dessus et des autres Parts nous permettons a la veuve de feu antoine Cottinault de Jouir et faire travailler ses Biens de quelque nature qu'ils puissent être sans que qui que [ce] soit puisse La troubler dans sa paisible possession Jusqu'à Larrivée de Monsieur le Colonel où de quelqu'autres commandant la sçituation de la Colonie Présente ne permettant pas qu'elle fasse inventaire actuellement, vu [Translation.] late father-in-law in order to pay there where it is due. This being done, the suppliant will never cease to make the most ardent prayers for your health and prosperity. The same has declared that he does not know how to sign and has made his customary mark. Kaskaskia Febuary 18, 1779. Raymond X Labriere mark We, the captains and officers of militia, commanding the village of Kaskaskia and its dependencies in the country of the Illinois, by virtue of the powers that have been given us by M. George Rogers Clark, Colo- nel, etc.: we, the undersigned, having examined the représentation of the présent pétition, written above and on the other page, permit the widow of the late Antoine Cottinault to enjoy, and make use of, her goods whatsoever they may be without the interférence of anyone, whoever he may be, in the possession thereof until the arrivai of the colonel or of any other persons in charge of the présent colony. We do not permit her to make an inventory at présent, inasmuch as some debts, active and
Page 73
BOWMAN TO LERNOULT, MARCH 20, 1779 73 queles deptes actives et passives de sa communauté ne [MS. torn] Sont connues. KasKasKias le i8eme février 1778 [sic[ [One name torn out] CHARLE VILLE CHARLES DANIS RlCH. WlNSTON CHARLES DE LeLISLE ChARBONNEAUX faisant pour Mr. Plasy Greffier [MS. torn] Expedition (Li)vrée a Mr. Labriere [Endorsed:] Requête du sr Labriere contre le sieur Barbau du i8me février. [Translation.] passive, of the community formed with her late husband are not yet known. Kaskaskia Febuary 18, 1779 Charle ville Rich. Winston. Charles Danis Charles de Lisle Carbonneaux acting for M. Plasy Clerk. Engrossed copy delivered to M. Labriere [Endorsed:] Petition of M. Labriere against M. Barbau Joseph Bowman to Richard Lernoult,1 March 20, 1779. [B. M., 21782, f. 195. —Copy.] Fort P. Henry S' Vincent, March 20th, 1779. Sir: In justice to my Countryman Mr Thos Bentley2 who has been de- tain'd in Canada almost two years as prisoner (to the ruin of his busi- ness and destruction of his familly) I hope you will therefore consider the lenity shewn to the Prisoners that fell into the hands of Colonel George Rogers Clark at this Post3 who upon application obtained permission 1 Richard Barringer Lernoult was commandant of troops at Detroit. After Hamilton's capture, Lernoult was in charge until relieved by De Peyster. Wis. Hist. Collections, zviii, 395, n. 93. 2 For Bentley's imprisonment, see ante. p. 12. The interest of Clark's officers in Bentley, revealed in this and the succeeding letter, support the theory, advanced in the Introduction, that there had been previous communication between him and Clark. 3 Clark dismissed on parole all the soldiers and most of the officers, captured at Vincennes. In his letter to Mason, he writes: "Seeing the necessity of getting rid of many of the prisoners, not being able 10 guard them, not doubting but my good treatment to the volunteers and inhabitants of Detroit would promote my interests there, I discharged the greatest part of them that had not been with Indian par- tie», on the» taking oath of neutrality." English, Cvnçuesl of the Northwest, i., 444.
Page 74
74 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS from the Colonel to return to their famillys at Detroit, and that you will also apply to the Command1, in Cheife in Canada to obtain the permis- sion of the said Thos Bentley, in order that he may once more return to his familly which suffer much by his absence. I am, Sir, Y* most humble Servant Jo5 Bowman, Major in Coll. Clark's Battalion. [Addressed:] on public Service. Cap1. B. B. Lernoult Esqr Command1, at Detroit. Jean Girault to Richard Lernoult, March ai, 1779. [B. M., 21782, f. 196. — Copy.] Fort P. Henry, St. Vincent, 21st March, 1779. Sir: Gratitude obliges me to address you these lines to represent to you the case of one of my benefactors Thomas Bentley Esqr who has been de- tained either in Canada, or on the way, these two years almost and that on mere suspicion — hoping that in consideration of Colonel Clark's humane treatment to those he took here who we found in Arms against us, notwithstandg which the Colonel sent them to their respective homes to join their famillys without detaining them one moment — you will if in your power procure the said Tho9 Bentley Esqr liberty to return to his familly. It is impossible to express the losses he has sustain'd by this absence, having no one to look to his interest. I shall not be tedious as you are a sufficient. Judge of his sufferings. I rest assured that your generosity and humanity will not allow you to look over this, but in com- pensation to Coll. Clark's kind treatment to so many of your People you will certainly obtain Mr Bentley's liberty as soon as you possibly can and send him to his distressed Familly and confused affairs by absence. This will ever be acknowledged as a most particular favor granted to Sir, Your very obed' & Hume Serv'. John Girault, Lieu' in C. Clarks Batalion. [Addressed:] on public Service. Captn Lernoult Comm'dt Detroit.
Page 75
TODD TO CLARK, MARCH 24, 1779 75 John Todd1 to George Rogers Clark, March 24, 1779. [Draper MSS., 49 J 33— A. L. S.] Harrodsburg, 27th March, 1779. Dear Colonel, Mr. Bowman the Express sent herewith will inform you of our Situa- tion at Kentucky whom you know well enough to confide in. I arrived here the 22nd Ins'. I left Col. Montgomery2 at Fort Chiswell very unwell three weeks ago in Expectation of setting off to the assistance of Illinois within 2 or 3 Weeks. His Rout is to be, as proposed; of which you are acquainted. We are Informed by one Searsy, who was with Hamilton on taking Post Vincent, all the Particulars of its loss, of which I expect you also have had Information. If the Remainder of your Corps shall arrive in time I hope Mr Hamilton will have cause to repent this step of his. You have frequently expressed a Desire that the Falls should be gar- risoned. I am using my Interest for that purpose in procuring Com from Boonsborough & hope you'll contrive to spare some of your Cannon which Capt W. Harrod3 will contrive up. The State has appointed an Indian-Trade Agent who will I hope be able to furnish the Indians Goods on low Terms & yet, not in such Quantities, as to injure the Trade of Individuals. I expect to delay some Weeks in this part of the Country untill Col. Montgomery shall have time to be on the Ohio. The Assembly has passed no Laws of the first Moment. No Land Office opened nor shortly to be opened I think. The Révisai of the Laws not prepared. The News is That Gen1 Campbell is in Possession of that part of Georgia which lies Southwest of Savanah & Gen1 Lincoln on the N. East side with a considerable army whose lines & Intercepting Posts extend about 70 Miles up the River. The Enemy are about 5000 strong. Gen1 Washington with an army which Time has made disciplined & great care has fed well & cloathed was in Winter Quarters at Bond Brook in the Jerseys watching a disabled Enemy in New York. That 1 John Todd was appointed on December 12,1778, lieutenant of the newly formed County of Illi- nois. See ///. Hist. Collections, ii., pp. liii.,et seq. 1 For John Montgomery's career in Illinois, consult Index of III. Hist. Collections, ii., and post. Index. * William Harrod was a Pennsylvanian. He saw service under General Forbes in 1758 and under Lord Dunmore in 1774. In 1778, he recruited a company for the Illinois expedition and joined Clark at the Falls of the Ohio. _ He brought a company in 1779 to participate in Colonel John Bowman's expedition against the Ohio Indians. He died in 180L. Adapted from Thwaites and Kellogg, Dun- more's War, 68. n. 14.
Page 76
76 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 13 new Commissioners have arrived from Britain with new proposals of Peace (which was not Sufficiently confirmed). Col. Bowman1 will probably write to you. He offers his assistance towards the Relief of our new County whenever necessity shall require. The Express is to return as soon as possible & will I expect meet me with your Letters &c. 25th March. Since writing the above I doubt much if it is in your power to furnish amunition with the Desired Pieces if you cannot 1 would not put you to any present Inconvenience but to give your Senti- ments on the Head. I expect you'll be too full of other Business to give me much Assist- ance in procuring many Articles towards Housekeeping which I shall want. But if Opportunity offers I shd be glad you'd purchase for me & I would pay you again upon Sight. Inclosed is a letter [from] Capt Worthington upon the same Subject. The Emissions of Continental Currency of the 20th of April 1777 & nth April 1778 are ordered to be paid into the Continental Loan Offices by the first of June next or they shall Sink in the Owners Hands — I expect a Longer time will be allowed to the Ilinois Inhabitants on ac- count of their Distance &tc. though as yet they have no such provision.8 I hope you'll guard against Counterfeits, with which if common fame is true you have been or will be tried. If Mr Trigg s is with you please to present him with my Respects. He has Credentials from below for purchasing Goods at Orleans which Majr Knox has at S* Asaph. I wish you Success in your Department & hope you'll interfere in the Business allotted to me to the Advantage & Happiness of Ilinois dur- ing my absence. I am my Dr Col. your friend & humble Servant Jn° Todd jr. John Bradley to Thomas Bentley, May 5, 1779. [B. M., 21845, *• 20.—A. L. S.] Dear Bentley, I doubt not but I have at length got hold of a thread which will imme- diatly lead to your enlargment. 1 Colonel John Bowman. » See III. Hist. Cotttclims, ii., p. lxxi. 3 Stephen Trigg was a prominent man of Fincastle County, and was delegate to Virginia assembly in 1774. Thwaites and Kellogg. Dunmore's War, 44, n. 79. For his connection with Clark in a lan^ deal, see post, p. 78.
Page 77
SALE OF LAND BY GIBAULT, MAY 7, 1779 77 Mr Livius, the Chief Justice of Canada, will leave England for thence soon after this and by whom you will receive letters of introduction; he is perfectly acquainted with every stage of villainy you have met with and has represented them in proper colours to the Board of Trade. On his arrival at Quebec I beg you will make immediate application to him and you will receive instructions to proceed for your release which when ob- tain'd he will assist in drawing up a memorial to be presented to the Board of Trade for redress from your Persecutors and which you will address, with a letter, to Grey Elliott Esqr, Plantation Office, who will conduct the business for you and assist your cause with proper force. When you write Mr Elliot be cautious of your Expressions as your letter and memorial will be presented to Lord George.1 I will be more particular by Mr Livius, interim I remain very sin- cerely Dear Bentley Your assured friend John Bradley. London. 5th May, 1779. P. S. Your sister writes & therefore I need not say anything respecting your friends. Endorsed:] Mr Thomas Bentley. Sale of Land by Father Gibault, May 7, 1779. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 172.] Je soussigné Prêtre missionnaire Vicaire General de monseigneur L'Evêque de Québec aux pais des Illinois et [MS. illegible] procureur fiscal de M™ des missions Etrangères de la Ste famille des Kahokias Certifie Avoir Concédé et concede une terre de dix arpens de front a Commencer La premiere Borne â un demi arpent plus haut que les [Translation.] I, the undersigned priest, vicar general of Monseigneur the Bishop of Quebec, in the country of the Illinois, and [word illegible] Procureur fiscal of the Foreign Missions of the Holy Family of Cahokia, certify that I have ceded and do cede a plot of land of ten arpents frontage, beginning at the first limit half an arpent above the source of the spring > Lord George Germain, Secretary of State for the Colonies.
Page 78
78 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS source de la fontaine qui sont du Rocher nommé ordinairement le moulin de Mr. L'abbé et En descendant Jusqu'à La Coulée des Saules en descendant vers le Mississippi le reste restant en commun, et en remontant depuis le bord Des grandes Côtes Jusqu'à vingt et un arpent en profoundeur Pour de la ditte terre Expliquée cy dessus En Jouir En toute Propriété et a perpétuité le Sieur Stephen Trigg ses hoirs et ayant Cause sans trouble ny préjudice a Condition cependant que le dit Sieur Stephen Trigg ses hoirs ayant cause payeront les droits communs a tous les autres citoyens tant curiaux que civils, ainsi que les droits seigneurieux tels qu'ils pourroient être Etablis cy après par la republique Donné la présente pour titre de Concession signé de notre main aux Kahokias ce Vingt et un avril L'an de Grâce de Jésus crist mil sept cent soixante et dix neuf. signé P. Gibault Ptre Misre vre gl Je Certifie avoir transporté a Monsieur Stephen Trigg une maison scituée au Pieds des Cotes des Kaos et la terre qui En dépends suivant la prétention que je puis avoir qui m'a été accordé verbalement Par Monsieur le Capitaine Lord cy devant Commandant Pour le Roy pour [Translation.] which issues from the rock, commonly called the mill of M. L'Abbé, and descending to the row of willows towards the Mississippi, the re- mainder lying in the commons and extending back from the line of the great bluffs to twenty-one arpents in depth, to enjoy in full and perpétuai propriety the said land above described, to M. Stephen Trigg, his heirs and assigns without trouble or préjudice, on condition, however, that the said M. Stephen Trigg, his heirs and assigns, shall pay the dues, both ecclesiastical and civil, common to ail the other citizens, as well as the seigniorial dues which may be established hereafter by the republic. The présent is given as a title of concession. Signed by our hand at Cahokia this twenty-first of April, in the year of grâce of Jésus Christ, 1779. (Signed) P. Gibault, Missionary Priest, Vicar General. I certify to havc transferrcd a house, situated at the foot of the bluffs of Cahokia, and the land which belongs thereto, in accordance with the prétention I may have, which land was verbally ceded to me by Captain Lord, formally commandant for the king, to M. Stephen Trigg for
Page 79
SALE OF LAND BY GIBAULT, MAY 7, 1779 79 Enjouir ses hoirs et ayant cause comme si ce fut moymême, Je donne le present pour valoir En tout lieu et En tous les Cas où Besoin sera, fait aux Kaskaskias le 7me May 1779 Signé Cerré I do assign to George Rogers Clark Esq. all my right & Title to the Lands & appurtenances as above conveyed to me for valuable Consider- ation to have & to hold to the said George Rogers Clark his heirs & assigns for Ever to his & their sole use & Behoof. Given under my hand & seal at Kaskaskia the 6th day of May 1779 the third year of the Commonwealth. Sealed and delivered before us signé Jno Todd Jr. signé J. Gdïault Lt. signé Mch Perrault Lt Carbonneaux Greffier [Translation.] himself, his heirs and assigns to enjoy as if he were I. I give the present to make the title valid everywhere and in every case, where there shall be need. Done at Kaskaskia, May 7, 1779 (Signed) Cerré. I do assign to George Rogers Clark Esq. all my right and title to the lands as above conveyed to me for valuable considerations to have and to hold to the said George Rogers Clark,1 his heirs and assigns forever to his and their sole use & behoof. Given under my hand and seal at Kaskaskia, the 6th day of May, 1779, in the third year of the Commonwealth. Sealed and delivered before us (signed) John Todd Jr. (signed) J. GrRAULT Lt. (signed) Michel Perrault, Lt. Carbonneaux, Clerk. 1 For the later history of this cession, see III. Hist. Collections, ii., 581-
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 80
CHAPTER III THE BEGINNINGS OF CIVIL GOVERNMENT, MAY 12 TO november 13, 1779 Speeches by Clark and Todd — Elections and Appointments — Presentation of Grievances — Exports Prohibited — Money Dif- ficultés— John Dodge Escapes from Captivity — Sessions of the Court — Letters from Todd — Disorders in Kaskaskia — Montgomery Collects Supplies— The Peltry Fund — Prohibi- tion OF THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC — REFUSAL OF MORE SUPPLIES — An ESTIMATE OF ToDD'S ADMINISTRATION. . Speech of George R. Clark to the Inhabitants of Kaskaskia, May 12, 1779. [Draper MSS., 49 J43.— L. S.] Messieurs, Dès votre premiere déclaration et attachement aux causes des ameriquains, Jusqu'a la Glorieuse Prise du Poste saint vincent, J'avois douté de Votre Sincerité, mais dans ce moment critique J'ai Eprouvé votre fidélité, J'ai été si touché du Zêle avec lequel vous vous y êtes montré, que mon Desir est a présent de vous rendre heureuse, et de vous Prouver l'affection sincere que J'ai pour le bien Et l'avence- ment de cette Colonie En general et d'un chacun en particulier les [Translation.1] Gentlemen: From the time of your first declaration and attachment to the cause of the Americans until the glorious capture of the Post Vincennes, I doubted your sincerity; but at that critical moment, I received proofs of your fidelity. I was so touched by the zeal which you there dis- played, that my desire at present is to make you happy, and to prove to you what sincere affection I have for the welfare and advancement of this colony in general and of each one of you in particular. The 1 This address, and the following, was evidently read at an assembly of the inhabitants of Kaskaskia to elect the judges of the Court. See III. Hist. Collections, ii., p. Ivih., ct seq. 80
Page 81
CLARK'S SPEECH, MAY 12, 1779 81 Jeunes gens de ce pais sont revenus du Poste Saint vincent couvert de L'auriers. J'espere qu'ils continueront toujours Quoyqu'il y en ait. quelques uns qui n'ont Point Eu de part a cette Glorieuse action, Je n'En ai pas moins d'estime pour Eux sous L'Espérance qu'ils Pren- deront leurs revenche si L'occasion s'En Presentoit, qui pendant mon absence ont avec La dernière Exactitude fait leur devoir En la Garde de ce fort. Et Je Vous promets qu'aussitôt Qu'il Sera En mon pouvoir que vous Joiiiray de la Liberté dont les ameriquains jouissent Eux mêmes et que leurs sang coulent dans leurs veines Pour leur Salut et la deffence de leurs Patrie et que vous Messieurs vous pouvés reclamer les memes privileges, Je vous ai deja dis et Je vous Le répète Encore que le Gouvernement vous protege il va vous Envoyer un regiment de troupes réglées pour votre sûreté et deffence, et il vous a appointé un Lieutenant Gouverneur Civile Pour régler et terminer vos affaires. dans peu vous Connoitrerés le sistême ameriquain que vous trouverés peut être dans le principe Etranger Et dans la Suite vous y trouverés tant de douceur Et de tranquillité que vous benirés le Jour que vous avés ambrassé La Cause des ameriquains. vous Devés être persuadé [Translation.] young people of this country have returned from Post Vincennes covered with laurels. I hope they will always continue so. Although there were some who did not take any part in that glorious act, still I have no less esteem for them in the hope that they will take their revenge if occasion presents itself; for during my absence, they have done their duty by guarding the fort with the greatest care. I promise you that as soon as it shall be in my power, you shall enjoy the same liberty that the Americans are enjoying. Their blood flows in their veins for their safety and the defence of their country; and you, gentlemen, can claim the same privileges. I have already told you and I again repeat it that the government protects you. It is going to send to you a regiment of regular troops for your safety and defence, and it has appointed for you a civil lieutenant-governor in order to regulate and judge your affairs. In a short time you will know the American system which you will find, perhaps, in the beginning a little strange; but in the course of time you will find so much peace and tranquillity in it, that you will bless the day that you espoused the cause of the Americans. You must feel
Page 82
8a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS que l'on ne désire rien autre chose que de vous rendre heureux et de vous procurer tous les secours possible Voicy Monsieur le Colonel Toodd, mon grand ami, que Je vous présente icy pour vous Gouverner et c'est la Seule personne Dans L'Etat que J'ai désiré avoir dans cette Colonie pour remplir ce poste Je suis Plus que persuadé de sa Capacité par ma Connoissance et La diligence qu'il apportere a vous rendre Justice et En même temps heureux. Vous êtes icy assemblé Messieurs pour une affaire de la dernière importance qui consiste a apointer les personnes les plus Capables et les Plus illuminées pour Juger vos differens dont J'y suis intéressé pour votre bien futur aussi bien que pour le présent. Je vous prie de Considérer L'importance de ce choix et de le faire sans partialité de prendre Des personnes les plus dignes de ces charges et J'Espère que dans peu vous Serés convaincu que vous êtes des mem- bres les plus Libres de L'univers. Je vais Encore une fois m'addresser aux Jeunes gens qui ont servi sous moy dans La glorieuse Expédition du poste et leurs assure Quils ne seront pas oublié dans toutes les Prov- [Translation.] assured that nothing else is desired than to make you happy and to get for you ail the help possible. I présent to you Colonel Todd, my good friend, as your governor. He is the only person in the state whom I desired to fill this post in this colony. I am fully persuaded from my knowledge of his ability and diligence that he will succeed in rendering to you justice and in making you contented. You are assembled hère, gentlemen, for a matter of the greatest importance, which consists in appointing the most capable and the most learned persons to judge your disputes; in this I am interested not only for your présent welfare but also for your future. I beg you to consider the importance of this sélection, to conduct it without any partiality and to elect persons the most worthy of thèse offices; and I hope that in a short time you will be convinced that you are the freest men in the universe. I am going to address myself again to the young people who served under me in the glorious expédi- tion against the Post and to assure them that they will not be forgotten for their good deeds and the good service they have rendered in the
Page 83
TODD'S SPEECH, MAY 12, 1779 83 inces de nos Colonies pour les Bienfaits Et bon services qu'ils ont rendus. Je n'ai pas oublié d'En rendre un fidel Compte aux Etats De leur Sincere attachement depuis le Jour de mon arrivée dans ce pais Jusqua ce Jour. C'est avec une grande sincerité que Je desire L'avancement et La prosperité des habitans des Illinois En general. Je vous prie de Me Croire avec le plus sincere attachement Messieurs Votre tres humble et tres obeissant serviteur Fort Clark le 12 May 1779 G R. Clark [Translation.] provinces of our colonies. I did not fail to give to the states a faithful account of their sincere attachment from the day of my arrival till this day. It is with the greatest sincerity that I desire the advancement and the prosperity of the inhabitants of Illinois in general. I beg you to believe me, with the sincerest attachment, gentlemen, Your very humble and very obedient servant, G. R. Clark. Fort Clark, May 12, 1779. Speech of John Todd, May 12,1779. [C. R., in Chicago Hist. Society.— Copy.] Messieurs, Je suis Envoyé De la part Du Governement de Virginia pour Ex- ercer la Charge De Magistrat En Chef de cette Contée; La reseption que jay Eû de vous messieurs merite mes Remersimentes je suis flaté et Le Seré toujour lors que mon pouvoir poura Servir a vostre Bien Estre, Je vous assure que Rien ne menquera de Ma part pour parvenir a Ces fins. [Translation.] Gentlemen: I am sent by the government of Virginia to act as magistrate in chief for this country. The reception I have received at your hands, gentlemen, merits my thanks, and I trust, as I always shall, that my power may be of service to your welfare. I assure you that nothing will be lacking on my part to accomplish this end.
Page 84
84 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS La Republique Des Virginens ont Eu des motifs assi noble pour venir non par Amour de vous Conquir, Mais Vous inviter a partisiper avec Eux, La Bénédiction d'un Independence franc, et Egalle et pour Estre Gouverné et Jugé par des Officers qui serons mis En pouvoir par Le peuple. La grande Distance ou Vous Este Messieurs, de la Capitalle ne vous permit pas de Vous assembler, Je dis, présenter dans lassemblé qui Gouverne l'Etat, Mais si par la suitte du temps, Il arrivoit, pour vostre Bien ou pour Vostre perte que vous prefairerie Vos représentations, Jay dens mes Instructions de vous assurer que Cela ne vous Sera pas Reffuzé. Le motif qui nous Engage a vous faire assembler Messieurs, Est pour Choisir parmis vous, Six des plus notables et des plus judicieux, pour Estre Jugé En fait de la cour des Caskaskias Conjuinctement avec deux autres de la prairie du Rocher et St Philipe. Touttes personne qui a droit de Voix peut Donner de Vive Voix ou par Ecrit son Opinion pour Elire Celui quil Voudera mètre En place. [ Translation.] The Republic of Virginia has had very noble motives in coming hère. It was not for the love of conquest, but to invite you to enjoy, with her citizens, the blessing of an independence, free and equal, and to be judged and governed by officers who will be placed in power by the people. The great distance at which you find yourselves from the capital, gentlemen, does not permit you to assemble yourselves, I say, to be présent in the assembly which governs the state; but, if in the course of time it happens, either for your gain or for your loss, that you should prefer to be represented there, I have been instructed to assure you that this will not be refused to you. The motive which brings us together, gentlemen, is to choose amongst you six of the most worthy and most judicious men to act as judges of the Court of Kaskaskia, conjointly with two others from Prairie du Rocher and St. Philippe.1 AU persons who have a right to vote can give their vote for the élection of the person they wish to have in thèse offices, either verbally or in writing. 1 This is the meanina of the French, but, siace two were elected from Prairie du Rocher and one from St. Philippe, we must suppose that an error was committed by the translator of the English, sup- poscdly prepared by Todd, or else an inaccurate stateraent made by Todd himself. For the élection at Prairie du Rocher, see post, p. 85.
Page 85
AN ELECTION, MAY 19, 1779 85 Je ne puis Conclure Messieurs Sens Remersier Publiquement Mr Le Colonelle Clark pour ses politesses Je Congratul Sinscirement luy, Ses Braves Officiers et Soldats, et prie dieu de La Bonté Divine De luy Continuer le succès de Ses armes. [Endorsed:] Address to the Citizens of Kaskaskia. [Translation.] I cannot conclude, gentlemen, without publicly thanking Colonel Clark for his kindness. I congratulate him, his valiant officers, and soldiers, and pray to God of ail divine goodness to continue granting him success in his military undertakings. Election at Prairie du Rocher, May 19, 1779. [K. MSS.—A. D. S.] Nous soussignés habittants au village de la prairie durocher étant tous assemblés en la salle daudiance de mr barbau capitaine de millice et commandant en ce village a l'effet de nommer deux magistrats pour ce dit district, après avoir mûrement examinés nous avons tous un- animement nommé pour premier juge la personne de monsieur jean baptiste barbau Capitaine de millice et commandant en ce district et pour segond juge la personne de monsieur antoine duchaufour de louviers lieutenant de millice en ce dit district les connoissants très capables de remplir la dite charges et avons tous signes a la prairie du rocher ce 19 may 1779. [Translation.] We the undersigned inhabitants of the village of Prairie du Rocher, being ail assembled in the audience chamber of M. Barbau, captain of the militia and commandant of this village, for the purpose of nominating two magistrates for this said district, after having carefully examined, hâve ail unanimously named for first judge the person of M. Jean Bap- tiste Barbau, captain of the militia and commandant of this district, and for the second judge the person of M. Antoine Duchaufour de Louvieres, lieutenant of the militia in this said district, knowing them to be very capable to fill the said positions and we hâve ail signed at Prairie du Rocher, this nineteenth of May, 1779.
Page 86
86 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Marque Joseph tangué Marque DE JOSEPH COCHAN Marque DE FRANÇOIS TIBAU Marque DE LOUIS BUART Mark Joseph Tangué. Mark of Joseph Cochon. [ark of F\ançois Tibault. krk IS BUART. Marque DE LOUIS VASSEUR Marque DE NICOLAS TURJON Marque DE FRANÇOIS COMUS Marque DE JOSEPH BLAY Marque DE LOUIS PILLET [Translation.] Mark of Louis Vasseur. Mark of Nicholas Turjon. Mark of François Comus. Mark of Joseph Blay. Mark of Louis Pilleste. Decochy JEOUANI [sic] BAPTISTA GACOMLNI BARBAU FILS AYMÉ COMTE DeCochy. GlOVANI BAPTISTA Jacomini Barbau, Jr. Aymé Comte. Certificate of Election by John Todd, May 21, 177g. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 169.] The Commonwealth of Virginia. To Gabriel Cerré Joseph Duplasy, Jacques La source, nicolas Janis, Jean Baptiste Barbeau, nicolas Lachanse, Charles charleville, antoine duchaufour de Louvrieres Pierre Le chevalier Girandot Es- quires. From the great Confidence reposed in your Judgment & Integrity by the good people of Kaskaskias and its Dependences and agreeably to an act of the General assembly of Virginia you are hereby constituted & appointed Justices of the peace for the District of Kaskaskias and Judges of the Court of the said District in cases both civil & criminal, any four or more of you are authorized to constitute a Court before whom shall be cognisable all actions and cases of which the Courts of
Page 87
WINSTON'S BOND, MAY 21, 1779 87 the Counties of this commonwealth Respectively have Cognizance your Judgment must have the Concurrence of at least a majority and be entered with the proceedings previous and subsequent and fairly recorded in Books provided for that purpose. Witness John Todd Esquire county Lieutenant or commandant in Chief of the County of Illinois the 21st day of May in the third year of the commonwealth annoque Domini, 1779 signed Jn Todd Jr. Carbonneaux Greffier. Certificate of Appointment of Sheriff by John Todd, May 21, 1779. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 170.—Recorded, May 26, 1778.] The Commonwealth of Virginia to Richard Winston Esquire You are hereby constituted & appointed sheriff of the district of Kaskaskias. It is required of you that you enter into Bond with suffi- cient Security in the penalty of one thousand pounds Virginia currency for the due & faithful performance of your Office in manner & form as is required from the Sheriffs of Counties or Districts within this commonwealth and moreover take an oath in open Court to demean yourself well & truly in your said office. Given under my hand & seal at Kaskaskias the 21st day of May in the third year of the Commonwealth annoque Domini 1779. signed Jn Todd Jr. Carbonneaux Greffier. Bond of Richard Winston, May 21, 1779. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 171.] Know all men by these presents that we, Richd Winston George Rogers Clark, Richard McCarty of the county of Illinois are held & severally bound unto his Excellency the Governor of Virginia his heirs & successors in the full & just sum of one thousand pounds current money of Virginia to be paid to the said Gouvernour of Virginia his hairs and successors To which payment each [ ?] & truly1 to be made we do bind ourselves our heirs executors administrators jointly & severally sealed with our seals & dated this 21st day of May one thou- sand seven hundred and seventy-nine. 1 The clerk has evidently omitted a line.
Page 88
88 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS The Condition of the above obligation is such that if the said Richd Winston Sheriff of the district of Kaskaskias shall at all times faithfully account for all monies, Tobacco, Skins, furrs, and all articles whatsoever which shall come into his hands by process from the Court of the Dis- trict of Kaskaskias from any Court of a district of Illinois or from any County Court of this state or from the general Court &c if the said Richd Winston shall speedily & as fully execute all process to him Directed by order of the said Court of Kaskaskias or by the justices of the peace for the Preservation thereof & shall faithfully demean him- self in the office of sheriff for the said district Then the above obligation to be void otherwise in force. signed Richd. Winston. signed G. R. Clark. Taken in Court signed Rich. McCarty. signé devant moy signé Carbonneaux Greffier. Magistrates to John Todd, May ai, 1779. [K. MSS.—A. D. S.] [A] Monsieur Jh todd Escuyer Colonel et [prejmier Magistract de la Contée des illinois [et] ses dependennces &c &c &c C'est avec un Grand regret et le Cœur narve [sic] que les sousignés habitans de la ville des Kaskaskias au pais des Illinois Paroisse [de] L'Immaculée Conception, ont L'honneur de vous Exposer disants [qu]ils ont vus avec Douleurs a diverses reprises Les soldats de la troupe du fort Clark aller dans la Commune de ce lieu chercher Les animeaux des dits soussignés, sans avoir Egard n'y à la Marque n'y a celuy à qui [Translation.] To M. John Todd, Colonel and First Magistrate of the County of Illinois and its Dependencies etc. etc. etc. It is with profound regret and with sorrowing heart that the under- signed inhabitants of the village of Kaskaskia in the country of Illinois, parish of the Immaculate Conception, have the honour to make known to you the following: They have seen with sorrow the soldiers of the com- pany of Fort Clark going at different times to the commons of this place to get the animals of the said undersigned, without paying any attention either to the mark or to him to whom they might belong. They penned
Page 89
MAGISTRATES TO TODD, MAY ai, 1779 89 ils Pouvoient appartenir, les ont Renfermé dans le dit fort et tué sans En donner avis à personne Chose [?] qui Jusqu'à ce temps ne s'Etoit Jamais vue dans ce pais [Et] qui est contre toutes Loix et Particulière- ment contre les Coutumes et uzages d'un pais libre et indépendant comme est celui cy et que L'on nous L'annonce L'être, La ou un chacun Doit être maître de faire de son bien ce qui lui plaira En Jouir comme bon lui avisera, ont tué Boeuf de charuë, [vac]he à Lait et autres qui appartenoient a des Gens et Personne [qui] ne pouvoient s'en passer, faisant pour les uns le besoin de L'agriculture de sa terre, Pour les autres la subistence et nourriture de sa famille, nous nous sommes Jamais refusé a fournir des animaux Pour le besoin de la Garrison autant qu'il a été En notre pouvoir et sommes Encore Prêts a le faire d'autant que nos forces Pourrons nous le permettre, si l'on souffre que l'on nous tue les Boeufs de charuë comment pourrons nous Cultiver nos terres et fournir [les] Besoins de la Garnison et celui de nos familles, si de [pa]reils abus continuent qui tendent a la ruine générale De la Colonie que deviendront Les Colons. Les Dits soussignés vous exposent qu'ils Etoient Convenus unani- [Translation.] thèse in the said fort and killed them, without giving notice of this to any one, a thing, which up to this time had never been seen in this coun- try, and which is contrary to ail laws and is especially contrary to the customs and usages of a country free and independent as is this one. They announce to us that this is a free country, where each one should be master to do with his property, as pleases him, and to enjoy it, as he may see fit, yet they have killed plow-oxen, milch cows and other animais, which belonged to persons and people who could not get along without them, being for some, needful for the cultivation of the land, and to others, for the subsistance and nourishment of their families. We have never refused to furnish animais for the need of the garrison as far as it has been in our power, and we are still ready to do so as far as our strength may permit us to do it. If they permit our plow-oxen to be killed, how shall we be able to cultivate our lands and furnish the needs of the garrison and that of our families? If similar abuses continue, which tend to the gênerai ruin of the colony, what will become of the colonists? The undersigned make known to you that they had unanimously
Page 90
go ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS ment d'abolir La traitte des Liquers fortes et Enivrantes avec les nations Sauvages comme il Etoit Practiqué so[us le] Commandement des francois dans ces Colonies, qui [MS. torn] tout temps regardée Comme la Peste et La Perte Gener[MS. lorn] Colonie qui a Causée tous les mal- heurs et les desastres [MS. torn] ont été commis par ces mêmes nations, témoins L'atta[A/5. torn] Par les checachias a la Maison de Monsieur Rum[M5. torn] le Commandement de Monsieur le Capitiane Lord [MS. torn] dernière Malheureux affaire Commise par les Lou[ps] En- viron six semaines où deux mois n'a-t-elle pas été oc[AfS. torn] Par la Boisson qui nous ont mis cette nation Contre nous Qui Jusqu'à ce Jour nous avoit deffendu et protégé Contre les autres nations nos Ennemis et Bien d'autres traits [MS. torn] Les dits soussignés vous Exposeraient dont le detail [MS. torn] trop Long-lemg [sic] le tout Causé par la traitte de L'Ea[udevie]. Les dits Soussignés Vous remontrent aussy que [MS. torn] même [Translation.] agreed to abolish the trade in strong and intoxicating liquors with the Indians, as was the practice under the regime of the French in these colonies, who always regarded this trade as a pest, threatening the de- struction of the colony, and causing all the harm and disaster which were committed by these same nations. An example of this was the attack by the Chickasaws on the house of M. Rumfsey]l during the command of Captain Lord 2 [MS. lorn], and another the last unhappy affair committed by the Loups about six weeks or two months ago; was this latter attack not brought about by the drunkenness which made this nation hostile to us, but which, up to that day, had defended us and protected us against the other nations, enemies of ours? And many other outbreaks [by the Indians] the undersigned might relate, the details of which would take too long to narrate; but the cause of them all has been the trade in eaudevie. The undersigned inhabitants point out to you also that [at the] 1 James Rumsey cameto Illinois with Captain Stirling in 176c .but soon left the service and engaged as a clerk for Baynton, Wharton, and Morgan. Later he had a quarrel with George Morgan and with- drew from the service of that firm. He may have started a business for himself. The attack referred to occurred in May, 1772. The disturbance began by the disorderly conduct of a Chickasaw Indian in the store, which was followed by an attack made by the whole band at that time in the village. They were beaten off by the soldiers. Can. Archives, B., vol. xii,p. 75. 7 Captain Hugh Lord was in the early summer of 1772 left in charge of the Illinois country by Ma- jor Isaac Hamilton, his superior and predecessor. At that time the British ministry had determined to abandon the policy of maintaining large garrisons in the West. Therefore Fort Pitt and Fort de Char- tres were both abandoned; and all but a few troops, left at Kaskaskia, were withdrawn from Illinois. Captain Lord remained at his post until the spring of 1776. See ante, p. 4, n. 4.
Page 91
MAGISTRATES TO TODD, MAY ai, 1779 9* temps qu'ils Etoient Convenus Entr'eux de suivre Exactement qu'ils n'avoient Jamais fait L'Edit des Ro[is de] france de 1720 appellé Com- munément Code noire Con[tre] les achapts ou ventes avec les nègres Esclaves sans Perm[MS. torn] verbale où par Ecrit de leurs maîtres dont a present on [MS. torn] aucune difficulté de leurs vendre Boissons En [MS. torn] Marchandises et autre pareillement d'achapts [MS. torn] Espèces de Denrées sans Enprevenir leurs dits maîtres [MS. torn] les Engage aux voles, Larciens et Brigandages qui E[st] L'intention et Esprit du dit Edit qui a été cy devant sui[M5. torn] avec la dernière Exactitude et celui qui y Contrever[3fS. torn] Etoit puni suivant L'Exigence du Cas. Les dits soussignés vous remontrent que dans [MS. torn] que les Sauvages ont fait de leurs terres a Monsieur W[illiam] Murray et com- pagnie qu'ils sEn sont réservé une certain Portion pour eux, les francois leurs frères et toutes autres nations qui pourroient venir dans ce Con- tinent pour En jouir. Conditionellement, de concert avec eux qu'il n'En seroit ac[MS. [Translation.] same time they covenanted amongst themselves 1 to follow exactly the edict of the [kings of] France, of the year 1720, commonly called the Black Code, a thing they had not done. This Code prohibited pur- chasing from, or selling to, negro slaves without a verbal or written order from their masters; for at present one has no difficulty in selling to them drink in [exchange for ?] merchandise, other kinds of products, or provisions without warning their said masters thereof, [a thing which] encourages them to engage in theft, larceny, and brigandage, the pre- vention of which was the intention and spirit of the said edict, which was formerly followed with the utmost exactitude; and he who broke it was punished according to the circumstances of the case. The said undersigned inhabitants point out to you that [in the sale] which the Indians made of their lands to M. William Murray and Com- pany, 2 they reserved a certain portion of it for themselves, the French, their brothers, and all other nations which might come to this continent to enjoy the same, on condition, according to agreement, that no more 1 Refers to the agreement made in 1776, see ante, p. 21, n. 1. I See [IL Hist. Collection*, H* xxx., Ixx., and ante, p. 7, n. 1.
Page 92
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS torn] Dans ce même Continent qui Est depuis La riviere a marie Ju[s] qu'a paissa, que ce que celui a qui la possession En seroit [MS. torn] Pourroit Cultiver pour eux et leurs successeurs, nous [MS. torn] Certain aventurier qui serigent En seigneur ayant [MS. torn] qui sont incultes qui vendent [ ?] aux uns et autres a [MS. torn] Considerables et qui En font Commerce qui Empecher[MS. torn] L'augumentation du pais C'est pour ce Considerés [MS. torn] vous plaire. 1. ordonner et deffendre à lavenir et dès ce [MS. torn] a toutes Per- sonnes de Quelque qualité [MS. torn] Quelques pretexte que se puisse être d'attrapper ou faire attrapper dans la commune de ce lieu ou ailleurs aucun animal de quelques Especes qu'il puisse être Encore bien [MS. torn] moins de les tuer, Les dits Soussignés ne s'Etant Jamais refusé a En fournir autant qu'il a été En leur pouvoir Pour le Besoin de la Garnison et que de tels abus soyent reprimez 2. De ne pas permettre a quique ce soit que sous un Gouvernement aussy Juste qu'Equitable la traitte d'Eaudevie avec les Sauvages de- clarée, prouvée et reconnue authentique[ment] La Peste et la perte Gén- [Translation.] land should be acquired in the territory extending from the river A Marie as far as Paissa, than he who had possession of it could cultivate for himself and his successors. We call your attention to certain adven- turers who are establishing themselves as seigniors having taken [pos- session of lands] which are uncultivated and which they are selling to each other at considerable [priées], and are making thereof a commerce. This prevents the growth of the country. In consideraton of this, may it please you: ist. To order and to forbid, from this day on and in the future, all persons of whatever quality they may be and with whatever pretext they may have, to take, or to cause to be taken, in the commons of this village or elsewhere, any animal of whatever kind it may be, and much less to kill said animals; since the said undersigned inhabitants have never refused to furnish meat, as far as it was in their power, for the need of the garrison. [May it please you to order] that such abuses be surpressed. 2nd. Not to permit anyone whomsoever, under a government so just and equitable, to trade in eaudevie with the Indians, since it is de- clared, proved, and recognised by authority to be the pest and general
Page 93
MAGISTRATES TO TODD, MAY 21, 1779 93 érale de tout ce Continent se fasse et Que celui qui donnera ou Echangera des Boissons Enyvrantes avec les dits Sauvages soit chassé et Banis honteusement [MS. torn] la Colonie Comme personne déclarée En- nemie de la [pa]ix et du repos Public. 3. Pareillement celui qui donnera ou Echangera des Boissons En- yvrantes vendra Marchandises ou acheptera des denrées Des Esclaves nègres où Sauvages sans une Permission verbale où par Ecrit des maîtres des dits Esclaves soyent condamné [MS. torn] amande Pécuniaire con- formément a Droit des [MS. torn] de 1720. 4. Enfin qu'un chacun Jouisse Paisiblement des Droits a Eux accordés par les Sauvages Et qu'il ne soit accordé a ceux qui demand- eront des possessions que ce qu'ils En pourront Cultiv[er] Ce faisant Les dits Sousignés ne cesseront de faire les Voeux Les plus ardents pour votre augmentation et celuy [MS. torn] L'Etat et ferès droit Dessus ont signés les autres ont fait leur marque ordinaire. Kaskaskia le 24me May 1779 Cerré Jean baptiste bauvais janis Lachanse ant. [MS. torn] [ Translation] destruction of ail this land, if it is done. [May it please you to ordain] that he who shall give, or exchange, intoxicating drinks with the Indians be expelled and shamefully banished from the colony as a person de- clared to be an enemy to peace and to public repose. 3rd. Likewise that he who shall give or exchange intoxicating drinks, who shall sell merchandise, or shall purchase provisions from black and Indian slaves, without a verbal or written permission from the masters of the said slaves, be condemned to a pecuniary fine according to the law of the Code of 1720. 4th. That ail enjoy peaceably the rights accorded to them by the Indians, and that no possessions be given to those who shall ask for them except that which they will be able to cultivate.1 This done the undersigned will not cease to make the most ardent vows for your wel- fare and that of the state; and you shall do justice. Some have signed others have made their customary marks. Kaskaskia, May 24, 1791 Cerré Jean Baptiste Bauvais Janis Lachanse Ant [MS. torn] • See Todd's proclamation (Chicago Hist. Society's Collections, iv., 301}, wherein he forbids land to be taken up except in the long narrow strips simil.tr to the French holdings.
Page 94
94 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Charles Charleville plasi BARUTEL Jque LASOURCE. [Translation.] Charles Charleville Plasy Barutel Jacques LaSource. Appointment of Henry Croucher as Deputy Attorney by Jean Girault, June 8, 1779. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 182.] Illinois Know all men by these presents that John Girault of the town of Kaskaskia in the aforesaid County by virtue of a Commission to me granted the fifth day of June Près* by John Todd Esq County Lieut or Commandant of the afforsd County Empowering to act as attorney on Behalf of this Commonwealth have made ordained constituted and appointed and by these Presents do make Constitute and appoint henry Croucher Esq of said County to be my true attorney and for me and in my name and on behalf of said Commonwealth, to sue all offenders and defend all suits against said Commonwealth receive all fines and Emercement which may be hereby (?) Law Le1 [sic] accounting for the same and amount thereof When thereunto required and in fine to do all Lawfull acts and things whatever conserning the Premises as fully in Every Respect as I might or could do, If I were personally Present hereby ratifying and confirming all and whatsoever my said attorney shall in my name Lawfully do or cause to be done in and about the Premises by virtue of these Presents he being first qualified as the law directs.2 In Witness to here [sic] I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my seal the Twenty Eighth day of June in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy nine and in the third year of the Common- wealth Signed John Girault. atty gen'l 'The derk has evidently both misread and omitted something. 2This is the only reference to Henry Croucher as state's attorney that has been noticed.
Page 95
A PETITION, JUNE 12, 1779 95 Pétition to the Court of Kaskaskia, June 12, 1779. [K. MSS. — A.D. S.] A Lhonnorable Cour Du Distric Des Caskakias Messieurs, Les nomées Peaul Desrochers, Labonté, louis Boisdoré, Joseph Larame on Lhonneur de représenter deVin Vostre tribunal Le tort qu'auroist Mr. proveau Conducteur d'une Voiture appartenant a Mr Bingteley De leur faire perdre Leurs gage qu'ils ont Si légitimement gaigné a la sueure de Leurs fron Vous Este Supplié Dobserver Messieurs que toutte Les raisons que le Sr. proveau vous aligua hier Se reduizent a une seulle qui Est quil Entent faire payer aux Dts Engagés une certaine Cantitè de marchandize qui auroist Eté Voilé dens un portage ou rapide par des Scauvages, et dit de plus Encaure pour Sa deffense q'un de ses mesme Engagé Se serois offert pour gader Le Bagage pendent que Les autres Seroient apsent Voisi Messieurs La réponse a laquelle Vous Este Supplié de prester toutte Votre attention. Les Scauvages que Le Sr. proveau auroist Embarqué Sur La voiture [Translation.] To the Honorable Court of the District of Kaskaskia. Gentlemen: The gentlemen, named Paul Desrochers, Labonté, Louis Boisdoré, and Joseph Larame have the honour to exhibit before your tribunal the wrong which M. Proveau, conductor of a boat belonging to M. Bentley, did them in making them lose their wages which they so justly earned by the sweat of their brows. You are besought to observe, gen- tlemen, that ail the arguments that M. Proveau produced to you yes- terday, reduce themselves to a single one, which is, that he intends to make the said engagés pay for a certain quantity of merchandise which was stolen by the Indians at the portage or rapids; and he says, more- over, in an argument for his defence, that one of his own men offered himself to guard the baggage, while the others were absent. Here is, gentlemen, the answer to which you are besought to give your careful attention. The Indians whom M. Proveau took on the boat, were very useless baggage for there was no need of a guide, since there was a very expert
This page contains an image.
Page 96
96 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Etoient des meubles très Innutiles puis quil navoist pas Besoin de guide En ayent un très Exper dens la personne du Sr. Desrocher 2e que Ce dit guide Connoissoit quil luy faloist tout ses homme pour Monter sa Voiture pour nestre pas En risque de périr quaurois dit mr. proveau luy mesme si Ce guide En Laissé un homme a garder Le Bagage et que par Ce deffeau La Voiture fue perrie et Mr. proveau Sur la gresve avec sa marchandize Expeauzè a la fureur des Scauvages Nauroist il pas dit a Ce mesme guide quil ne savoit pas son métier, que ne luy demenderoist il pas aujourdhuy. 3e Les Scauvages que le sr. proveau a jugé apropos d'Embarquer sur La voiture, ont Embarqué Contre La Volonté de tout Les Engagé et particulierrement du guide et il Est prouvé que Ce Sons Ce mesme Scauvages qui ont fait Le Voile. Personne Nignore Messieur q'un Bourgois peut Embarquer Sur Sa Voiture tout ce qui Luy plais, mais Si après des avertissement salutaire Expeauzè a Ce mesme Bourgois et que malgré tout il Veut Courir a sa riiinne Se fian quil ne perdera Jamais rien et quil faira payer ses Engagé il ne poroist rien de juste dens Ce procède Ce Considéré Messieurs il Vous plaize ordonner au Sr. proveau, quil [Translation.] one in the person of M. Desrocher. 2nd. That this said guide knew that ail his men were needed to take the boat up, so as not to run the risk of perishing. What would M. Proveau have said himself, if this guide had left a man to keep the baggage and, because of this, the boat had been lost, and M. Proveau had been left on the bank with his mer- chandise, exposed to the fury of the Indians? Would he not have said to that same guide that he did not know his business? What would he not demand of him to-day? 3rd. Those Indians, whom M. Proveau saw fit to take on the boat, embarked contrary to the wishes of the engagés and especially against that of the guide; and it is proved that it was thèse same Indians who committed the robbery. No one can deny, gentlemen, that an owner is free to load his boat with what he pleases, but if, after wholesome warnings made to this same owner and, in spite of ail, he wishes to run to his ruin trusting that he will never lose anything, and if he is going to make his workmen pay for it, there seems to be nothing just in such a proceedings. Having considered this, gentlemen, may it please you to order M. Proveau to pay thèse men their wages, which they earned with so much
Page 97
TODD TO CLARK, JUNE 22, 1779 97 ay a payer Leurs gage quil ont gaigné Avec tout de peine et Quil Soit Condamné a tout Les fraix de La procedure et faire droit Peacl Desrocher Louis Boisdoré ANTOINNE LABONTÉ JH LARAHE^ Aux Cas Le 12e juin 1779 [Translation.] labour, and may he be condemned to all the costs of the case; and justice will be done. Paul Desrocher, Louis Boisdoré, Antoine Labonté, Jh. Larame. Kaskaskia, June 12, 1779. Warrant from John Todd to Richard Winston, June 14,1779. [K. MSS. — A. D. S.] Ilinois to wit, To Richd Winston Esq; Sheriff of Kaskaskia &C.1 You are hereby authorized & required between the Hours of nine & Eleven in the morning of the Sixteenth of this Instant to cause to be executed Manuel a Slave in your Custody by being hung by the neck untill he be dead. & this shall be your Warrant. Given under my hand & seal the 14th day of June 1779 John Todd (seal). John Todd to George R. Clark, June 22,1779. [Draper MSS., 49J57. — A. L. S.] S' Vincennes 22nd June 1779 My Dr Col. By Capt. Helm you'll learn with what a high hand the Delawares have been conducting themselves lately — we may see from what trifling Causes Issues of the first Consequence flow. The Originals in this misfortune have a considerable share in the Blame. I wish it was less the case with us in all Indian Wars. We are now I believe too late for everything but open war with them. I wish to be at Kaskaskia a little 1 This warrant superseded the warrant for burning, copied in John Todd's Record Book,printed by E. G. Mason in Chicago Hist. Society's Collections, iv., 304. For the record of the trial of Manuel, see III. Hist. Collections, li. 13 et seq.
Page 98
98 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS while. I have written to Capt. Winston & sent an Appointment to Capt. Francois ' upon the plan we were speaking of, which, if you are not yet started, I wish you to forward with your Assistance I hope we have nothing to fear from the northern Indians & expel- ling the Delawares may probably be better for us — A secret Enemy is always best at a Distance. I console myself like a good American in supposing that everything] is working for the best & that with the Virtues of Wisdom, Bravery & Resignation we shall at last earn, & merit Independence — before we deserve it, providence will not give it. I am Dr Sir with respect Your Obed* Hble Serv' Jn° Todd jr. [Addressed:] Publick Service To G. R. Clark Esq. Commander &c. Kaskaskia. Protest Concerning Notes of Exchange by Joseph Perrault, June 24, 1779. [K. MSS. —A. D. S.] L'an mil sept Cent Soixante et dix neuf et le Vingt Quatrième Jour du mois de Juin avant Midy Dans la troisième année De la rePublic de virginie à la requisition du sieur Joseph françois Perrault négocient demeurant au Poste Saint Louis sur la Rive Espagnol des Illinois De present En la ville de KasKasKias Logé chez le Sieur Richard Winston ou il a Elu son Domicil J'ai françois Carbonneaux Greffier du district de KasKasKias En la Comté des Illinois y resident soussigné En la [Translation.] In the year one thousand seven hundred and seventy-nine, on the morning of the twenty-fourth of June in the third year of the Repub- lic of Virginia, at the requisition of M. Joseph François Perrault, a mer- chant living at Post St. Louis on the Spanish shore of the Illinois, and at present in the village of Kaskaskia, stopping at the home of M. Richard Winston where he has chosen his domicile, I François Car1 Captain François Charleville of the Kaskaskia Company. For biographical notice, see post, p. 415, n. 2.
Page 99
PERRAULT'S PROTEST, JUNE 24, 1779 99 susditte ville Paroisse de L'immaculée Conception me suis Exprès trans- porté au forte Clark accompagné de Deux témoins et présence du requisiteur où Etant et parlant a Mr. George Rogers Clark Colonel Commandant les forces De LEtat de Virginie En laditte Comté lui ai montré et présenté Deux lettres de changes faisant Ensemble La quantité de Deux Mille Deux cent soixante et dix sept Piastres deux Reaux par lui tiré sur Mr. olivier Pollock a la nouvelle orleans, avec un protest fait par Maître Garic Ecrivain Public a la ditte nouvelle orleans Le le [sic] Vingt troisième Jour du mois De Janvier dernier et ai ledit Greffier sous- signé par ces présentes sommé et interpellé ledit sieur George Rogers Clark &c Parlant comme de dessus de lui donner et payer présentement La somme De Deux milles Deux cent Soixante et dix sept Piastres Deux Reaux Contenue En les dittes deux Lettres De change aux offres de lui remettre ycelles En faisant le payement Bien et Duëment qu'il lancées Lequel a offert de de [sic] Livrer et Payer La ditte somme De Deux milles deux cent soixante dix sept Piastres En cartes courrante ainsy que les frais et interest ce que ledit sieur perrault na Pas voulu accepter Les dits [Translation.] bonneaux, clerk of the District of Kaskaskia in the County of Illinois and living in the above mentioned village, in the parish of the Immac- ulate Conception, went purposely to Fort Clark accompanied by two witnesses and in the présence of the petitioner, where being and speaking with M. George Rogers Clark, colonel commanding the forces of the State of Virginia in the said county, I showed and presented to him two letters of exchange together amounting to two thousand two hundred and seventy-seven piastres and two reaux, drawn by him on M. Oliver Pollock in New Orleans, together with a protest made by M. Garic, public scrivener of the said city of New Orleans, dated the twenty-third of last January; and I, the undersigned clerk, by thèse présents, sum- moned and called on the said M. George Rogers Clark etc., (speaking thèse very words) to give him (Perrault) and to pay at once the sum of two thousand two hundred and seventy-seven piastres and two reaux, as called for by the two letters of exchange, offering to return to him thèse which he had issued, if he should make the payment well and duly. He offered to deliver and pay the said sum of two thousand two hundred and seventy-seven piastres as well as the cost and interest in
Page 100
100 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS deux lettres De change Etant En piastres Monnoye C'est quoy moy le susdit Greffier soussigné Proteste Contre Mondit sr. G. R. Clark Le change de L'argent au nom du dit sieur perrault aux Perils, risques fortunes depens Dommages et interests de qui il appartiendra et protesté de tout ce que dessus En presence des Sieurs Jacques Lasource et villiers temoins a ce requis qui ont signé avec le sr. Perrault et nous Greffier soussigné les dits Jour et an susdit Lecture faite approuvé les quatre renvoys de nous paraphé temoins presents J. F. Perrault Jque Lasource Villers. In testimonuim Veritatis payé Emdt 15 Carbonneaux Greffier L'an mil sept Cent soixante et Dix neuf et le Vingt quatrieme Jour du mois de Juin après après [sic] midy a la requisition du sr Joseph Per- rault negocient au Poste St. Louis J'ai Greffier soussigné ai signifié et [Translation.] current paper money, which the said M. Perrault was not willing to accept, since the said two letters of exchange were drawn for coined piastres. It is for this reason that I, the above named clerk and under- signed, protest in the name of the said M. Perrault, against the said M. G. R. Clark for the exchange of the money [and the letters of exchange shall remain] at the peril, risks, fortune, expense, damages, and interest of him to whom it shall belong. And the above protest against all this was made in presence of MM. Jacques Lasource and Villiers, witnesses summoned for this purpose, who have signed together with M. Perrault and with me the undersigned clerk, on the day and year above named. Four insertions approved with a paraph by us. Witnesses present J. F. Perrault. Jacques Lasource Villiers. In testimonium veritatis, Paid 15 livres Carbonneaux, Clerk. On the afternoon of the twenty-fourth day of June, 1779, at the requisition of M. Joseph Perrault, a merchant at Post St. Louis, I, the undersigned clerk, informed and notified M. George Rogers Clark of
Page 101
PROCLAMATION BY CERRE, JUNE 28, 1779 101 notifié au Mr. George Rogers Clark le protest cy dessus et des autres parts parlant a sa Personne Ledit Jour et an sus dit. Carbonneaux Premier Expédition a Mr. perrault, Payé Emdt 5 [Endorsed:] Protest de Lettres de changes Par Mr Joseph Perrault contre G. R. Clark du 24me Juin [Translation.] the protest, above and on the other page, speaking to him on the above said day and year. Carbonneaux. First copy to M. Perrault. Paid for recording 5 livres [Endorsed:] Protest of Letters of Exchange by M. Joseph Perrault against G. R. Clark, of June 24. Proclamation Prohibittng Exports, by Gabriel Cerré, June 28, 1779. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 191. — Recorded August 11, 1779.] Je Soussigné Juge de la Cours des Kaskaskias Certifie qu'il a été défendu de sortir aucune Espèce de Provision, de ce Pays sans ordres et Permission du Commandant, dont Je Donne le présent pour servir a qu'il appartiendra. aux Kaskaskias ce 28eme Juin 1779 Enregistré le nme aoust 1779 signé Cerré Carbonneaux Greffier. [Translation.] I, the undersigned Judge of the Court of Kaskaskia, certify thac it has been prohibited to export provisions from this country without orders and permission by the commandant, concerning which prohibi- tion I give the présent to serve him, to whom it shall belong.1 At Kaskaskia, June 28, 1779 (Signed) Cerré. Recorded August 11, 1779. Carbonneaux, Clerk. 1 For a similar proclamation, issued August 22, 1779, by John Todd, see Chicago Hist. Society's Collections, iv., 306.
Page 102
ioa ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Gabriel Cerré to George R. Clark, July 12, 1779. [Draper MSS., 49JS9- — A. L. S.] Monsieur, Je soite que la présente vous trouve En parfaite Santé. Et vous Soite toute Prospérité Dans vos Entreprise. Vous savée Lorsque vous mavée employé a fair Les achats de déférante provision pour Les Etats, je lé fait avec touts Le zèle posible Je né Epargnier ni mes peines ni ma bourse Car toute Les fourniture que Jai Prise Sur La partie De misère Je les ai payée En peltri sur lequele Je doit Encore Milles ou Douze Cent Livres De paux De Chevreille. Dans le Règle- ment De mes Compte avec Monsieur Shannone Je lui est Demendé Des marchandise Pour Comme il me lavoit promis répondre â mes Engage- ment, Jugé De ma surprise Lorsque quil me Dit quil nâtois pas a Son pouvoir De men donner Daucune Espèces, il ma donné Des letres De change Pour au nombre de Douze Cent Trante huite piastre Le Dis Crédite Des letre De change Comme vous le Savez menpeche De Re- pondre a mes Engagement Je ne Recoure qu'a vous Dans Se moment. Jespere que vous vousDré Bien me fair Donné Des marchandis pour La Concurance De ce que Je Doit qui poura Equivallé quatre cent piastres [Translation.] Sir: I hope that this letter will find you in perfect health, and I wish you ail success in your enterprise.1 You know that when you employed me to buy différent supplies for the States, I did so with ail the zeal possible. I spared neither pains nor my purse. I paid for ail the supplies I took from Ste. Geneviève with peltries, on which I still owe a thousand or twelve hundred livres in deer skins. In settling accounts with Mr. Shannon,2 I asked him for some merchandise, since he had promised to be responsible for my engagements. You may judge of my surprise, when he told me that it was not in his power to furnish me with any kind of merchandise. He gave me letters of exchange to the amount of twelve hundred and thirty-eight piastres. The discrédit of the letters of exchange, as you know, prevents me from settling my liabilities; I dépend only on you at this moment. I trust that you will be kind enough to see that merchandise is delivered to me to the amount that 1 Contemptated expédition against Détroit. * William Shannon was commissary and quartermaster of the Illinois battalion.
Page 103
CERRE TO CLARK, JULY 12, 1779 103 Je ne rien Exigé De me paines pour Le services Des Etats insy il Servit Bien dure pour moy de d'eBoursé Milles Livres De paux de Chevrulle, Jespere que vous aurée Egare a ma demende, Comme Egalement a legare De ma forge que Javois Louée a Mr Winston pour Les Etats. Les ouvriers ont enporté tous les outi[l]s qui etois Dedans don vous trouveré La note Cy join pour Le temps qu'il 6n été DeDans il ma été paye 73 livre par Monsieur Shannone. Cent piastre ne sufiroit Pas pour Remetre Les outils qui manquent et le fere qui a été employé Dont Je né pas eue un Sous, on ma dit quil y avoit Du fere au poste au états Et Des outils de forgeront vous pourier men faire remetre vous pouvez vous enforme De Sela a Monsieur Kenedy il nier aucune nouvelle qui mérite votre atantion Sinon que le Bruit Coure Ion Jour qun Gran no[m]bre de Sauvage Doivent nous attaquer. Je vous pris De me Croire avec Considération Monsieur Votre très humble Et très obéissant Serviteur Des Kaskaskias Le i2m Juillet 1779 Cerré [Translation.] I owe, which equals some four hundred piastres.1 I did not require any- thing for my trouble in the service of the state, so it would be very hard for me to disburse a thousand livres in deerskins. I hope you will hâve considération for my request, as well as some considération for my forge which I rented to M. Winston for the use of the states. The work- men took away ail the tools that were there, a list of which you will find joined to this letter. For the time that they had possession of it I received 73 livres from M. Shannon. A hundred piastres would not be enough to replace the tools that are missing and the iron that was used, for which I did not receive a cent. I have been told that there is some iron as well as blacksmith's tools at the post of the states. You might be able to have some of them turned over to me. You can inform your- self on this subject through M. Kennedy who will keep back nothing which may be worthy of your attention, unless it be that rumor has it that one of thèse days a large number of Indians will attack us. I beg you to believe me with considération, sir, Your very humble and obedient servant, Kaskaskia, July 12, 1779. Cerré. 1 He reckons five livres to the piastre.
Page 104
io4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Etats Des outils qui manque Dans ma forge Scavoir i Gro Marteaux 4 Demis Ronde 1 Dito petie 1 Cuillier a pot 4 lrs Lime Carré Lanaux Des Tenaille 1 Ronde La Chaine du Sou fier [Addressed:] Monsieur Monsieur Le Colonel Clark aux Poste Vin- senne [Translation.] List of the tools that are missing in my black-smith shop: Namely: 1 large hammer. 4 half-round files. 1 small hammer. 1 cooking-ladle. 4 square files. The ring for the tongs. 1 round file. The chain for the bellows. [Addressed:] To Col. Clark, at Post Vincennes. John Dodge 1 to Philip Boyle, July 13, 1779. [B. M., 21782, f. 242.—Copy.] Pittsburg, July 13th 1779. Dear Sir, It is with pleasure that I inform you that I have made my escape from Quebec; I have the honour of wearing a Captain's Commission, and the managing Indian affairs. You may depend upon seeing me there this fall with a good Army. Fisher and Graverat2 are here and desire to be remembred to their Brothers and bid them to be of good cheer. There has been a battle at Carolina, the English are entirely defeated, seven hundred lay dead on the ground, the rest prisoners with all their Cannon and Baggage. I inclose to you the proceeding of a Council. I am going to Williamsburg in a few days to prosecute Hamilton3 and that Rascal Dejean * Lamotte,5 likewise Hominay 1 John Dodge played an important part in Illinois during the revolutionary years and thereafter. He had just been appointed, in 1779, commissioner for Indian affairs in Illinois. A full account of him will be found in 111. Hist. Collections, ii., Introduction. Concerning his capture and imprisonment he wrote: An entertaining Narrative of the cruel and barbarous Treatment and extreme Sufferings of Mr. John Dodge during his captivity of many months among the British at Detroit, ete., 2d cd. Danvers, Mass., 1780. Also published: Almon's Remembrancer, vi. 2 Visger and Graverat of Detroit. * Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, captured at Vincennes. * Philip Dejean was judge in Detroit during the British period. He followed Hamilton to Vin- cennes, was taken prisoner, and sent to Williamsburg. Thomas Bentley states that it was through his influence that Dejean was released on parole and returned to Vincennes and Detroit. 8 Guillaume La Mothe was a trader at Detroit in 1767. On the outbreak of the Revolution he was in New England. Later he returned to Detroit and became a British "partisan." He was cap- tain of militia, when he accompanied Hamilton on his Vincennes expedition, where he was captured. He was, like Hamilton, kept in close confinement until his exchange in 1781. Adapted from Wis. Hist. Collections, xviii., 442.
Page 105
CERTIFICATE FROM CLARK, JULY 14, 1779 105 Hay.1 They will all be hanged without redemption, and the Lord have mercy on their Souls. My Compliments to all the good whigs of Detroit — money, plenty, fine times for the sons of Liberty. I am just now drinking your healths with a good Glass of Madeira. God bless you all, we will soon relieve you from those Tyrants. I am, Sir, Yr humble Servant Jno Doge. To Mr Philip Boyle merchant at Sl Duski by Mr John Montour. Wrote on the outside. The Rev*1 D. Zeiberger is allow'd to open this letter and read it to the Indians. receiv1 Septr 28th 1779, by some Hurons. B. B. L. [Endorsed:] Detroit. Entd Copy of Jn° Doges Letter Sep* 6th with a printed Ace* of G. Ham- ilton's treatment at Williamsburg. 1779 A. Entered in Book marked B. N° 3, Page 1. Also Andw Robinson's letter to Doge wrote on the back of said printed acc* of Govr Hamilton. for the C. in Cheife thro Col1 Bolton. Copy. Certificate from George Rogers Clark, July 14, 1779. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 185.— Recorded August II, 1779.] I Certifie that the necessity of the Service, obliged the inhabitants of Caskakia & Cahos to furnish all the flour they were Capable to furnish for the use of the troops under My Command, by which Mr Charles Charleville could not furnish what he was obliged to furnish Mr Devilliers at the arcansas Given under my hand at fort Patrick Henry 14, July 1779 signed G R Clark enregistré le nm aoust 1779 1 Jehu Hay was born in Chester, Pennsylvania, and enlisted in the 6oth American Regiment in 1758. In 176a he was a lieutenant at Detroit. There he serred during Pontiac's conspiracy. In 1766 he was made Indian commissary. In 1774 he was selected by General Haldimand to visit and report on the conditions in Illinois. In 1776 he became deputy Indian agent and major of the Detroit militia. He, also, was taken prisoner at Vincennes, sent to Virginia and exchanged in 1781. In 178a he became lieutenant-governor of Detroit and died in 1785. His son, John Hay, later became a prominent citizen of Cahokia, Illinois. Thwaites, and Kellogg, Revolution on the Upper Ohio, 130, n. 27.
Page 106
io6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS John Todd to George R. Clark, July 28, 1779. [Draper MSS., 49J62 — A. L. S.] Kaskaskia, 28 July, 177g. Dr Col., After 6 Days Journeying we arrived here having for the Sake of Se- curity left the Road. The Bearer is not going express for I have not Business of consequence enough for one. The Harvest is just brought in without any Molestation from the Enemy. Col. Rogers set off yesterday to St. Louis for the small remains of Goods which he says belongs to our State — a Secret before unknown to me. I expect him about 10 Days Hence. If you do not proceed upon the Expedn I think you W1 be more serviceable here than at S' Vincennes I am Dr Col. with esteem Your Obed1 & hble Serv' Jn° Todd jr. Aug' 12th Having been disappointed in sending this & other letters I send them now. Col. Rogers will set off in a few days for Ft Pitt. I wish to see you to know the plans proper for our deportment the Winter ensuing. J. Todd jr [Addressed:] G. R. Clark Esq; S' Vincennes John Todd to Judges of the Court, July 30, 1779. [K. MSS.,— A. L. with seal.] To Gabriel Cerre &c. Esquires, Judges of the Court for the District of Kaskaskia' You are hereby authorized & required to hold & institute a Court on Saturday the 31st of July at the usual Place of Holding Courts within your district any adjournment to the Contrary notwithstanding Provided that no Suitor or party be compelled to answer any process upon said Day unless properly summoned by the Clerk & Sheriff. Given under my hand & seal at Kaskaskia the 30th July 1779. seal [Endorsed:] Requis de Mr Tod a Mr Janis Pour rassambler la Cour. 1779, No. 44. [Translation.] Request of Mr. Todd to Mr. Janis to reassemble the Court. 1779- No. 44. 1 This is evidently a warrant to hold a special session of the court. It was transcribed by Todd in his Record-Book, which has been published by E. G. Mason, in Chicago Hist. Society's Collections, •v., 304.
Page 107
COURT RECORD, AUGUST 2, 1779 107 Court Record of Kaskaskia, August 2, 1779-August i, 1781. [K. MSS.—A. D. S.] A une Cours tenue par Extraordinaire tenue par ordre de Mr Jean todd premier Magistrat du district des KasKasKias Est Comparu nicolas lachanse lequel après avoir pretté les serment de fidélité et d'office Entré En charge de Magistrat ce Jourdhuy 2me aoust 1779 et a signé Duplasi LaChanse a une court tenue au district des KasKasKias le Mercredy premier Jour du mois d'aoust mil sept Cent quatrevingt et un est Comparu En la ditte court Messieurs antome beauvais et Jean baptiste chauvin charleville Les quels ont été nommé par le public assemblée le Vingt neuf de Juillet dernier Pour Magistrats et Juge a paix de ce dit District les quels après avoir pretté le serment de fidélité Et doffice sur les saint Evangeliste du Dieu tout puissant ont pris séance a la court Et ont signé les dits Jour et an susdits. Antoine Bauvais Charleville [Translation.] At a spécial session of the Court ' held by the order of M. John Todd, first magistrate of the District of Kaskaskia, there appeared Nicholas Lachanse, who after having taken the oath of allegiance and of office entered on the duty of magistrate, this second day of August, 1779, and signed, Duplasy. Lachanse.2 At a session held in the District of Kaskaskia on Tuesday the first day of Angust 1781, there appeared before the said court MM. Antoine Bauvais and Jean Baptiste Chauvin dit Charleville, who were named by the public assembly, on the twenty-ninth of July,3 magistrates and jus- tices of the peace of this said District, and who after having taken the oath of allegiance and of office upon the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God took their place in the said court and signed the same day and year as above. Antoine Beauvais Charleville. 1 The record'of the sessions of the Court of Kaskaskia has probably been destroyed, at least it has never been found. The above record is evidently a page frora the original record-book. For other stray records, consult the Index of this volume. At the end of John Todd's Record-Book, printed Chicago Hist. Society's Collections, iv., 309, are records, evidently original, of a few sessions of the Court revived in 1787. 1 Lachanse had been elected in the previous May. See ante, p. 86. 1 For account of this élection see III. Hist. Collections, ii., p. evii., and post. 268, n. x.
Page 108
io8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS You shall swear that you will well & truly execute the Office of Clark to the Court for the District of Kas. in the County of Illinois according to the best of my Knowledge & Ability So help me God. Je francois Carbonneaux fais serment que je ferrais et Executeroit dans l'office de Greffier de la Cour pour le District des Cascakia dans la Comté de Ilinois suivant mes millieu Connoissance et Suivant Mon savoir faire ainsy Dieu me soit m'aider Carbonneaux Greffier Oyes Oyes, Oyez This Court is adjourned till the 26th day of the month. God save the Commonwealth [Translation.] You shall swear that you will well and truly execute the office of clerk to the Court of the District of Kaskaskia in the County of Illinois according to the best of your knowledge and ability, so help you God. I, François Carbonneaux, swear that I shall do and execute the office of clerk of the Court of the District of Kaskaskia in the County of Illinois to the best of my knowledge and ability, so help me God. Carbonneaux, Clerk. Oyes, oyes, oyez! this court is adjourned till the 26th. day of the month. God save the Commonwealth. Arent De Peyster to Thomas Bentley, August 9, 1779. [B. M. 21845, f- 24-— A. L. S.] MlCHILIMACINAC, 9th Aug1 1779. Sir, I received your letter of the 14th July yesterday. I am sorry it is not in my power (with propriety) to comply with your request in writing to the General giving him my opinion, and transmitting His Excellency copies of my letters to Ll Govr Hamilton, unasked. Mr Hamilton assured me that he sent copies of my Letters to General Carleton. For my part I must acknowledge I never cou'd learn any- thing to your disadvantage. I arrested you in consequence of repeated Letters from Mr Hamilton who I assured at the time I sent you to Detroit that if Beaumer was your accuser, he bore a very bad Character and was much in debt to you. I remember your telling me that you had not the necessary papers
Page 109
TODD TO FLEMING, AUGUST i8, 1779 109 with you or you wou'd soon prove your Innocence to Mr Hamilton which I most sincerely wish had been in your power. I am, Sir, Your most obed1 hble serv* A'. S. De Peyster. Mr Thos Bentley. [Addressed:] Mr Thos Bentley Merch* Montreal. [Endorsed:] Letter from Major de Peyster to Mr Bentley, 9th Aug* 1779. John Todd to William Fleming,1 August 18, 1779. [Draper, MSS., 23J103. —A. L. S.] Kaskaskia, 18th Aug' 1779 Dear Col., This letter is my third to you since I left you. If I knew what you expected in the military way from this Quarter I could tell whether no news wd be thought good or bad news. If your Hopes are not raised higher than mine you are pleased that we have no news. We were induced to expect an Expedition against D'Etroit in Expectation of men by Col. Montgomery, & even after he failed, We had hopes from the Kentuckians: but I believe the campain is now over & dividing the Regiment properly will be the next Business. When I left Col Clark He seemed desirous to establish a Garrison upon the Ohio either oppo- site the Falls on this Side or at Fort Missiac near the Mouth of the Cherokee River — But he has not force. Are you pray, Sir, or not raising an army for the Mississippi? If Government is not active in it already, This back Country will be lost. The Proceedings of the British Troops below alarm us with Reason. They will so secure themselves in a short time that I fear we shall not be able to displace them. If the possession of the Ohio Waters are of any service to the united States it is time to enter the List & dispute the Domination of the Mississippi — The sooner the better. 1 William Fleming was of English ancestry. His education was both classical and scientific. He graduated from the medical department of the University of Edinburgh, and entered the army as a sur- geon. He served in Washington's regiment during the French and Indian War, and was later captain m Colonel Stephen's regiment. He married Anne Christian in 1768 and settled on a farm in Augusta County, Virginia, and removed in 1768 to Montgomery County. He participated in the Dunmore's War, and was wounded at the battle of Point Pleasant. He was concerned in the frontier defense dur- ing the Revolutionary War, was state senator, and served on the privy council in 1781. Twice he served as commissioner to settle land titles and public accounts (see post, p.313). He was a member of the ratifying convention of Virginia for the federal constitution. He died from the results of the wounds received at Point Pleasant, on August 24, 1795. Adapted from Thwaites and Kellogg, Dunmore's War, 428.
Page 110
no ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Col Rogers is here on his way to Fort Pitt with some Goods the property of the State much damaged. I have been urging him to leave the Bateaux to his Officers & go strait down by Land to Wmsburg. The present form of Government here seems as yet productive of no great Inconveniencies & may remain till the May session only continu- ing the Act ( & apropos) raising my sallary so that I may be able to keep two Horses. If by serving the publick I shall be obliged to sell my small possessions at Kentucky to support myself, My Country ought to blush for the Victory will be mine. I can live poor & proud here- after in private Live, notwithstanding. I wish you'd tell me how Mr Machieval advises to keep up the Indian Interest with out Goods, either to give or Sell. The fear of Col. Clark & his 500 men has hitherto terrified them But (Quere) will not they shortly find out that he has not 200? I ought to have Blankets & Stroudings for them before Winter if possible. Mr. Lind- say's commission, if he succeeds, will not purchase half enough for the Indian nations bordering upon us. I wish some Gentleman of Busi- ness would undertake the Matter with further powers' Pray give me some account of Affairs in your part of the World If you do not I must ride & see myself I begin to think I cannot be pre- pared to render to my Masters a satisfactory account of the Country before the next Spring — when, or sooner, I hope to see you I prefer Kentucky much to this Country either for the ambitious man the retired farmer, or the young merchant. Will Government continue to neglect strengthening the Falls of Ohio? If they will not do something I believe I shall, supposing that through a multiplicity of Business they leave it to me. Remember me to Col Christian & family Mr Lockhart & his the Mays &c With Respects to Mrs Fleming &c I am Dr Col with sincerity Your most Obed Hbl Serv* Jn° Todd jr P S. Mr Madison sent me an army commission I wd rather he had kept it, as it is of no use to me. [Addressed:] To Col. Will. Fleming Senator for the District of Botetourt &c
Page 111
GIRAULT TO MAGISTRATES, AUGUST 24, 1779 m John Todd to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 23, 1779. [K. MSS.—A. L. S.] Mr J Charleville Guardian of some Minors Suitors in the Court of Kaskaskia prays upon their account that their Tryal be deferred a few days to be better prepared as also to have a full Court. His demand has the appearance of Justice & I recommend the Case of the Minors to the Court who ought be always their Guardians. The other party may at any time have a Special Court for this Tryal when both parties shall be prepared by full Court To the Court to consider upon & do Justice Jn Todd renvoyé a Mercredy Prochain et les Parties sont averties Cerre. Carbonneaux, Greffier [Endorsed:] Ordre de Mr todd Pour rassembler La Cour pour terminer Les affairs d'Entre les M" Charleville et tellier du 23me Aoust 1779. [ Translation.] Postponed to Wednesday next and the parties have been notified. Cerré. Carbonneaux, Clerk. [Endorsed:] Order of Mr. Todd to reassemble the Court to terminate the case between MM. Charleville and Tellier. August 23, 1779 Jean GrRAULT to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 24, 1779. [K. MSS.—A. L.S.] A La Cour Respectable du District des Kaskaskias Messieurs, C'est avec une Mortification bien Particulière, que Je voit execer dans ce village Journellem* des Choses bien nuisible au Repos Public [ Translation.] To the Honorable Court of the District of Kaskaskia. Gentlemen: It is with a very peculiar mortification that I see taking place daily in this village things so harmful to public quiet. My surprise is indeed
Page 112
lia ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS ma surprise est grande que messieurs les Magistrats permettent que des maisons qui ne Cause que du Danger a tous les habitants et est une nuisace [sic] publique, subsite [sic] dans le Coeur dun Village Je vous prens Messieurs tous a Témoins des Choses qui sonts Jour- nellement Commise chez le nommé Jarret, qui ne ce Contente point de Trafiquer des Liquers enivrantes a toutes sortes de Personnes, sans reserve et sans permission mais qui permet aussy que les Personnes qui sont Ivre Chez luy tire et décharge frequement des Coups des fusils dont les Balles passent travers des Cours et même des maisons de plu- sieurs des habitants qui sont situé auprès de cette Malheureux Maison, d'où ils ont déjà tué et Blessé des annimaux et il est a Craindre, sy cela Continue que des Personnes y Passeront voila Pourquoy Messieurs je pence qu'il est de mon devoir de vous le Représenter et a vous luy mettre arrêt Girault Vu La requête cy dessus et des autres parts La cours deffands au nommées Guy Gérard de vendre a lavenir de ce Jour Des boissons Enyvrantes sans une permission Expresse du Gouvernement sous [Translation.] great to see that the magistrates allow to exist in the very heart of the village houses which are a source of danger to the inhabitants and which constitute a public nuisance. I call ail you gentlemen to witness the things which take place daily at the house of one named Gérard, who is not satisfied with selling intoxicating liquors to ail sorts of persons, without restraint and without permission; but who also permits the persons who are drunk at his house, to shoot and discharge guns frequently, the bullets from which pass through the yards and even the homes of several of the inhabitants who live near to this fatal house; and animais hâve already been killed and wounded, and it is to be feared that if this continues that persons will fare in like manner. This is the reason, gentlemen, why I think it is my duty to inform you of this and your duty to put a stop to it. Girault. In view of the pétition above and on the other side, the Court forbids the named Guy Gérard to sell, from this day forth, any intoxicating drinks without an express permission from the government under
Page 113
MONTGOMERY TO INHABITANTS, AUGUST 20, 1779 113 Peines s'il y Contrevient d'être Chasse de ce village et sil est prouvé que les personnes qui ont bu chez le dit de Gerard ont causé quelque dommages nous l'en rendrons responsable Donné En la Cours du dis- trict des KasKasKias Laudience y tenant Par Extraordinaire Dans la Quatrieme année de la republique de Virginie Le 25 aoust 1779 soit signifié audit Gerard Cerré Carbonneaux, Greffier 1er exption signifiée a Gerard [Endorsed:] Requete du Procureur de L'Etat contre les traiteurs D Eau- devie. [Translation.] penalty that, if he disobey, he shall be expelled from the village; and, if it is proved that the persons who have drunk at the home of the said Gerard have caused any damage, we shall hold him responsible for it. Given in the Court of the District of Kaskaskia, in special session, in the fourth year of the Republic of Virginia, August 25, 1779. Let the said Gerard be notified. Cerré Carboneaux, Clerk. First copy served to Gerard. [Endorsed:] Complaint of state's attorney against traders in eaudevie. John Montgomery to the Inhabitants, August 20, 1779. [K. MSS.— L. S.] Aux Messieurs Habitants des Kaskaskias Messieurs, Jusqu' a present la maniere de procurer des Farrines &ca pour la subsistance des Troupes, ayant été bien Embarassente tant pour nos Commissaires que vous même, crainte qu'il n'en arrive quelques desa- gréement Je seray Charmé d'y porter remede. [Translation.] To the Inhabitants of Kaskaskia. Gentlemen: The manner of procuring flour etc, for the maintenance of the troops having been very embarassing as much for our commissaries as for yourselves, up to the present time, and fearing that some mis- understanding may arise, I shall be charmed to find a remedy.
Page 114
ii4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS La Troupe que le Gouvernement de Virginie a envoyé icy, pour la Sûreté et protection du Pays, ne Peut de Passer de cette article, mais Ils entendent en les ayant bien Satifaire les Personnes qui les Fournirons, voila pourquoi Je recommande a Chaque Citoyens, de se porter a Fournir Librement et avec bonne Volunté sa part de denrée, s'est a dire sa Portion selon son Pouvoir & Capacité. La Providence vous ayant accordé une bonne Récolte, sans doutte pour vous facilliter, a Supplier aux demande de vos Protecteurs, pour agir en bon Citoyen votre Subsistance doit premièrement être mis apart ensuite Celle de la Garnison, et s'il en reste s'est alors que L'on doit L'appliquer au Commerce, mais ses deux Premiers Besoins doivent toujours être les Premiers qui sont fournis. car vous devés penser que sy la Rareté se trouve Trop grande, ce Printemp il nous faudra partager la Soufrance Pour y Porter remède Je me Propose de Nommer et appointer un des Messieurs Citoyens pour Contracteur qui Poura remplir cette charge avec beaucoup Plus de Satisfaction qu'un Etrager [sic], comme il Connoitra tous les Messr du Pais et leurs Capacité. [Translation.] The troops, that the government of Virginia sent here for the surety and protection of the country, are not able to do without this article, but they intend, upon receiving thèse provisions, to give good satisfaction to those persons who will furnish them. It is for this reason that I recommend to each citizen to make an effort to furnish freely and with good will his share of provisions, that is to say his portion according to his power and means. Providence has granted you a good crop, doubtless to make it easier for you to supply the requirements of your protectors. In order to act as good citizens, your sustenance should be laid aside first of ail, then that for the garrison, and if there is any left it is then that one may use it in commerce; but thèse two main needs must always be the first to be furnished. You must remember that if want is too great we will have to divide our suffering this spring. To remedy this I propose naming and ap- pointing one of your fellow-citizens as collector who will be able to fill that position with much more satisfaction than a stranger, since he will know ail the gentlemen of the country and their respective means.
Page 115
MONTGOMERY TO INHABITANTS, AUGUST 20, 1779 115 La Plainte de L'Invalidité des Argents J'espère ne durera pas long temps, mais en attendant Je suis Certain que tous bon Patriottes ce porterons a facilliter la Garnisons, voyant que depuis tant d'années, tous leurs Compatriottes font la guère et se Battent pour ce même argent, et pour remédier a la dificulté qu'a causé les argents Contrefait, des Lettres d'Echange Seront donnée pour toutes Espèces de fournitures. Jespere Messieurs que Vous Agirés dans cette Circumstance en Bon Citoyen, porté pour L'Interest de la Juste Cause de L'amerique. Je suis Avec Respect et Estime Messieurs Votre Très Hble Serv' John Montgomery aux Kaskaskia ce 2om Aoust 1779. [Endorsed:] Demandes du Colonel Montgomery aux habitants des Kaskaskias du 20me May [sic] 1779 [Translation.] As to the complaint of the worthlessness of the money, I hope that will not last long, but while waiting I am sure that ail good patriots will endeavour to ease the garrison, seeing that for so many years ail their fellow-countrymen are waging war and fighting for that same money. And to remedy the difficulties that the counterfeit money has caused, letters of exchange will be given for ail sorts of goods. I hope, gentlemen, that you will act in this matter as good citizens, animated in behalf of the just cause of America. I am with respect and esteem, gentlemen, Your very humble servant, John Montgomery. Kaskaskia, August 20, 1779. [Endorsed:] Demands of Colonel Montgomery upon the inhabitants of Kaskaskia on May1 [August] 20, 1779. 1 Since it is not likely that such a mistake in the date would be made at the time the document wasreccived, this endorsement was probably written long afterwards, and the clerk or whoever filcd the papers misread the date. Several sîmilar cases of mistakes in endorsement hâve been noticed.
Page 116
n6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS List of Contributors, made by Patrick Kennedy, Assistant Commissary, August 31, 1779. [Draper MSS., 46J17.—A. D. S.] List of Different Inhabitants that Consented to furnish the Troops Belonging to the State of Virginia, agreeable to a Calculation made by the Magistrats 3ist Aug8' 1779 Names of the Persons &ca whoPaid; Flower; L. Sieur Janist 6000 Ditto Plasy 4000 10000 Ditto Charle Charleville 6000 Ditto Vital Beauvaix Paid 5000 Ditto Antoine Beauvaix d° 5000 Ditto Touranjour d° 2000 Ditto Joseph Brazeau d° 3000 Ditto Madame delisle d° 0200 Ditto Tague Lasourse d° "100 Ditto Baptist Lasourse d° '200 Ditto Allixi Beauvaix, d° "100 d° Rasine d° *ioo d° Chale danné d° '500 d° Bapte Charleville 2000 d° Proveau "200 100 d° Lemieux "200 100 d° Jermin d° *ioo d° Reneaux "500 100 d° Bazille Lachapelle "200 200 d° Fertin d° '400 d° Quiquête d° "100 d° Toulouse "100 100 d° Bienvenue Son 1000 1000 d° Charlo Lachapelle d° 500 d° S* Jem Beauvaix d° 7000 d° Lonvall d° 200 d° Madame Brazeaue d° "100 d° Bienvenue Father 6000 d° Cerré d° 4000 Total Pds Flower 55200 1600 1600 DeliV1 in Store 54600. * 1 The rest of the document is a list of goods in stock.

Page 117
A PROCLAMATION, SEPTEMBER 6, 1779 117 Proclamation Concerntng Liquor Traffic, September 6, 1779. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 191.— recorded September 7, 1779.] Vu par la Cour du district des Kaskaskias En la Countée Des Illi- nois L'audience y tenant le vingt cinquième jour du mois d'aoust dernier les représentations qu'a fait Monsieur Jean Tood gouverneur civil et premier magistrat de cette ditte countée a la susditte cours tendante a reprimer linfame et Illicite traitte des Liquers Enyvrantes qui se fait con- tinuellement avec les nations Sauvages, regardée de tout temps dans cette Colonie Comme sa Perte et destruction totale et générale En con- séquence La Cour de ce district fait très Expresse deffence et Inhibition a toutes personne de ce district de quelque qualité et condition qu'elles puissent être de vendre ou faire vendre traitter donner ou Echanger aux Sauvages nègres ou Esclave rouges aucunes liqueurs ou boissons Enyvrantes sous quelque Prétexte que ce soit et En quelque petite quantité que ce puisse être a moins que les dits Esclaves ne soyent porteurs d'un Billet de leur maitre sous peine par les contrevenans a la Présente Proclamation pour la première fois dêtre Enprisonné pendant huit Jours et de payer une amande de Vingt cinq Livres de peaux de [Translation.] The Court of the District of Kaskaskia in the County of Illinois, in session on the twenty-fifth of August last, has considered the repré- sentations to the aforesaid Court which have been made by M. John Todd, civil governor and first magistrate of this county, concerning the suppression of the infamous and unlawful trade in intoxicating liquors continually carried on with the savages, which has been always regarded in this colony as threatening it with loss and total and gênerai destruction.1 Consequently the Court of this district makes express prohibition and inhibition to ail persons of whatsoever quality and condition, living in this district, to sell to, or cause to be sold to, to trade in, to give to, or exchange with, the savages and negro and red slaves, any intoxicating liquors or drinks under any pretext whatsoever and in howsoever small quantities, unless the said slaves are bearers of a note from their master, under penalty, for the first offence of the trans- gressors of the présent proclamation, of imprisonment during eight days and of payment of a fine of twenty-five livres in deerskins, which 1 For a aimilar proclamation issuedby Colonel Clark, see ante, p. 64, and by the Court of Cahokia, IU. Hist. Collections, ii., 57s, 607.
Page 118
n8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS chevreuil qui seront mises En mains du premier Magistrat de ce district pour être Employer a aumoner les Pauvres de ce village et dêtre chassé de ce village honteusement comme parturbateur du repos Public et nuisible a ses concitoyens s'il y récidive. Deffends Pareillement la ditte cours par la présente Proclamation a toutes personnes de ce District d'achapter ou Echanger des Esclaves rouges ou noirs aucunes denrées comme mahis tabac Cochons fèves patates ou toutes autres chose que ce puissent être sans que les dits Esclaves ne soyent porteurs D'un Billet de leurs maitres signé, portant permission De vendre les dittes denrées et ce sous les mêmes peines que dit cy dessus. La ditte cour Enjoint a toutes personnes de ce District de tenir La main a la présente proclamation et celles qui auront connoissance de quelques contrevention contre icelle de les déclarer a faute par elles de ne le pas faire de subir les mêmes peines et amande que dit cy dessus. Sera la présente proclamation lue Publiée affichée et Enregistrée au Greffe de ce district a seule fin que personne n'En puissent prétendre [Translation.] fine shall be paid into the hands of the first magistrate of this district to be employed as alms for the poor of this village; and those found guilty, if the offence is repeated, shall be driven in disgrâce from this village as disturbers of the public peace and harmful to their fellow- citizens. The said Court likewise forbids, by the présent proclamation, ail persons of this district to buy from, or exchange with, the red or black slaves any commodities, such as corn, tobacco, pigs, beans, potatoes, or anything else whatsoever, unless the said slaves are bearers of a note signed by their masters, granting permission to sell the said commodities, and this under the same penalties stated above. The said Court enjoins ail persons of this district to enforce the présent proclamation and those, who shall have knowledge of any transgression against it, to déclare it; and decrees that, in case this is not done by them, they shall undergo the same punishment and fine, stated above. The présent proclamation shall be read, published, posted, and registered at the clerk's office of this district so that no person can
Page 119
DODGE TO LEBRON, SEPTEMBER 15, 1779 119 cause d'ignorance Donné En la Cour dudit district des Kaskaskias Dans la Quatrième année de republique de Virginie L'audience y tenant le 6me 7bre 1779. Signé Cerré signé Carbonneaux Greffier Enregistré le 7me 7bre 1779 Carbonneaux Greffier. [Translation.] plead cause of ignorance. Given in the Court of the said District of Kaskaskia in the fourth year of the Republic of Virginia, in the session sitting September 6, 1779. (Signed) Cerré. (Signed) Carbonneaux, Clerk. Recorded, September 7, 1779. Carbonneaux, Clerk. John Dodge to Lebron, Sept. i$th 1779. [B. M. 21844, f. 112.—Copy.] Fort Duquesne, Sept' i$th 1779. Mon Chère Amis, Cette avec pleasure Que Je vous fait Savoir appris Je Ette envoyé & Québec prisoner Je trouve moyen De me échapper De Les Enemis Je sui arrivé Ici De embas aujourhui ous Je aves La plaisir De Voye Le Governor & Dejean & Lemote & Le Grand Mr Hay Enfin je sui & mas Dan Le Cashous & Resteres La Jusque a La Tems Qui le pais a fait. Le Spain a fait Guère Contre Les Englois, Auci Le France Qui [Translation.] Fort Duquecne, Sept. 15, 1779.' My Dear Friend: It is with pleasure that I inform you that after I was sent to Québec as a prisoner I found a means of escaping from the enemy. I arrived today from the South [ ?] where I had the pleasure of seeing the Gover- nor, Dejean, Lemote and the great Mr. Hay, confined in irons and in a dungeon,2 and they will remain there until peace is made. Spain has declared war against the English, also France which is going to join the 1A translation is printcd in Mich. Htst. Colleditms, xix, 465. 2The original copy must be very faulty, for the French has no meaning. Dodge wrote the same information in English three days later. See second letter below.
Page 120
lao ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Ion Joindre Les Americans, Je vous Envoyé La proclamation De le Roi De France fait a Boston. Je Vous pris pour Donne Le lettre Qui j'envoye Ici pour monsieur Greverat & Fishar fair Que vous Donne Les letter vous même Ashter Tous Le Viver Que Vous pouris Je Spere Vous De vous Viere Le Vere Qui Vien Donne mon Compliments a mon Chère mère & Tous le Jollie fis Qui son au Détroit. Je suis appris Boir vous santé avec aun Bon Voir de Vin. Je aves Le Honor De Ette Vous Très Humble Serviteur. Jean Dodge. True Copy. tAddressed:] A Monsieur Lebron. [Endorsed:] Copy of a Letter from John Dodge to Monr La Bron Dated Fort Pitt Sep"- isth 1779. [Translation.] Americans. I send you the proclamation which the King of France made in Boston. I beg you to give the letters I am sending to M. Graverat and Visger. See that you give them the letters yourself. Buy ail the provisions possible. I hope to see you this coming winter. Give my regards to my dear mother and to ail the pretty girls in Détroit. Yours, after drinking to your health a good glass of wine. I have the honor to be, Your very humble servant, John Dodge. [Addressed:] To M. Lebron. True Copy. John Dodge to Pere Pothier, Sept. 15,1779. [B. M., 21844, f- 113. — Copy.] Fort Duquesne, Sep1" 15, 1779. Mon Chère Père, Cest avec pleasure que je vous fait savoir appri je ette envoyé & Québec prisonier je troive moyen de me échapper des Enemy, a Le [Translation.] Fort Duquesne, Sept. 15,1779. My Dear Father: It is with pleasure that I inform you that, after I was sent to Québec as a prisoner, I found a means of escaping from the enemy. At the
Page 121
DODGE TO POTHIER, SEPTEMBER 15, 1779 121 mem Tem Je Savoir Le Savage Ette oblige pour porender Le Castete Contre Les American, Je fait mon Divoir, pour Dire Le Même au Le Commandant Je supplia pour Les Autre pour Quoi les aves Consente De Le Donne Encore aun foi pour fare La pais pour après Eux pique les feme & Les Enfans. Je me fait Le Honour De envoyé Vou La parole de Sa magestre De France fait avec Le Savage an Philadelphia & Encore aun proclamation De le Counte De Estaing per orde De Le Roi De France. Je Vous Envoyé Aun Letter pour Monsieur Le Crose Que Je vous prie vous Le Donner vous même Je spere de vous voir Le Vere qui vien. Excuses mon maivis Ecriture & mal François. Jes aves Le Honour de Ette Votre Très Humble Serviteur Jean Dodge. [Addressed:] A Le Bonne Pere Potie. True Copy. [Endorsed:] Copy of a letter from John Dodge to Pere Pothier. Dated Fort Pitt, Sep1 i5th 1779. [Translation.] same time I know that the Savage is obliged to take the tomahawk against the Americans. I do my duty in telling the same to the com- mandant; I entreat for the others. Why did they consent to make peace and later to butcher the women and children? I have the honor to send to you the talk which His Majesty the King of France held with the savages in Philadelphia, and also a proclamation of the Count d'Estaing by order of the King of France. I am sending a letter for M. Le Crose which I beg you to deliver yourself. I hope to see you next winter. Excuse my bad writing and my bad French. I have the honor to be, Your very humble servant, John Dodge. [Addressed:] To Good Father Pothier.1 True copy. 1 Father Pierre Pothier was a Belgium Jesuit, who served the Huron mission of Détroit (Sandwich, Ontario) from 1744 to 1781. Wis. liisl. Collections, xviii., 246, n. 32. The meaning of the abovc lettert is very doubtful, for, as Dodge himself says, his French is "bad."
Page 122
laa ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS John Dodge to Philip Boyle, Sept. 18,1779. [B. M., 21844, f- 114- —Copy.] PlTSBURG, Sept1" 18th 1779. Dear Sir, After being sent to Quebec Prisoner, I found means to make my escape from thence last Winter. I just arrived from Williamsburg where I had the pleasure of seeing Mr Hamilton, Dejean, Lamotte, in Irons in the Dungeon, and there they are to remain untill the War is ended; they were put there for the usage they gave me at Detroit. Our Army has met with great succès this Year as well as last, our officers and Soldiers are in great Spirrits. Spain has declared War against England, and join'd their Fleets to the french. Count Distangue has taken several of the most valuable Islands that the English had in their Possession. I enclose to you a Proclamation from the French Admiral & Em- bassador, Minrd Fisher & Elbert Gravorat1 is here and in good spirrits, we expect to see you this winter. I would recomend to the Commandant of Detroit to be carefull how he uses the friends of the United States as he may happen to be called to an Account as well as Hamilton. I am with great respect Your most Obedient and very humble servant John Dodge. [Addressed:] To Philip Boyle merch1 at Sl Duski. [Endorsed:] J. Dodge to Philip Boyle at S' Duski, Sepf 18th 1779. John Williams2 to George R. Clark, September 25, 1779. [Draper MSS., 49J73. — A. L. S.] Kaskaskeas Fort Clark Ilinois Countey Sepf the 25th 1779 Dear Colo"1, I have not had an oppertunity before of Inquiring after you which I now with Pleasure Imbrace I Can Inform you of Mr kay who Started from Mishelemackanoy with 600 troops in order to Conduct the rebels as he Called us before there betters in Kannaday [Canada] he had a pare of hand Cufs for Every officer he left in the Country he Received 1 Albert Graverai [or Graveradl was a citizen of Detroit, who deserted the British side, probably about this time, since Dodge expected him to be in Detroit three days before writing this letter. (Ante, p. 120). In 1781 he left the Americans and returned to Detroit. Mich. Hist. Collections, xix, 600. 'For John Williams, see III. Hist. Collections, ii., 6a, n. 1.
Page 123
COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER 28, 1779 123 a Certnty that you had marchd for détroit Changed his root from St Joseph to détroit. provisions is very hard to be got without Peltry Colo"1 Mtgomery has Contracted for a quanty of flower but nothing to answer the purpose of an Expedition several perogues has been lost from this place there Came in an indian yesterday told me he saw where they ware killed I am afraid our Strenth will not permit us to Carry on aney Communica- tion with the opost1 by water. I Received a line from Cap* Mccartey yesterday he is well he writes to me that he has lost most part of his french Soldiers and the Inhabitants is So Saucey they threaten to drive him and his soldiers away, tels him hes no buisiness there nobody Sent for them they are very discontented the Sivil Law has Ruined them. I must Conclud with my due Respect to you and Remain as before John Williams Pray favor me with a line if oppertunity permits [Addressed:] For Colo" G R Clark at the Falls of ohio Extract from the Court Record, Sept. 28 1779 [K. MSS.—A. D. S.] Extrait des registres des audiences Du District des KasKasKias En la Comtée Des Illinois Entre le Sieur Jean Datchurut Demeurant au Poste de sainte Gen- evieve Porteur de deux Billets a ordre faisans Ensemble La somme de deux milles huit cent quatrevingt trois Livres Protestés a la Bourse de Bordeaux Consentis tous deux le troisième Jour du mois d'octobre Mil sept cent cinquante cinq ordre de Monsieur dacosta Par feu le sieur [Translation.] Extract of the records of the sessions of the District of Kaskaskia in the County of Illinois. Between M. Jean Datchurut, living at Post Ste. Genevieve, holder of two sight drafts, amounting together to the sum of two thousand eight hundred and eighty-three livres, refused at the exchange of Bor- deaux, both of which were accepted, October 3, 1755, to the order of M. Dacosta by the late M. Louis Viviat.2 The said plaintiff begs the 'Vincennes. 2 The will of Ixmis Viviat was registered in the K. MSS., Record Book, p. 164,00 October 20.1777. 4
Page 124
i24 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Louis viviat Dont le Dit Demandeur supplie la Cours de Condamner le sieur Gabriel Cerré Procureur et Exécuteur testamentaire des Dernières volontés dudit feu Sieur Louis viviat a payer le Montant des dits Billets ainsy que Les interests a six pour cent, Comparant et def- fendeur Parties ouies La Cours a Condamnée et Condamne ledit Sieur Gabriel Cerré En la qualité qu'il agit a payer audit Sieur Datchurut sans delay le montant Des dits Billets frais et interests a six pour cent du Jour du protest a la Bourse de Bordeaux a même les fonds dudit Sieur feu viviat ainsy que les frais de la présente Procédure Mandons &c faite et donné par nous Magistrats En La Cour du district des Kas- KasKias L'audience y tenant dans la Quatrième année de la republique De Virginie le Vingt huitième Jour du mois de septembre L'an Mil sept cent soixante et dix neuf signé Duplasy Emd* 2511 farine Carbonneaux Greffier [Endorsed:] Sentence contre Mr Cerré Procureur du Sr viviat au Profit du Sr Jean Datchurut. [Translation.] court to condemn M. Gabriel Cerré, attorney and executor of the last will and testament of the said late M. Louis Viviat,1 to pay the amount of the said notes as well as the interest at six per cent. Both parties have appeared. The parties heard, the Court condemned and condemns the said M. Gabriel Cerré in the position he fills to pay to the said M. Dutchurut, without delay, the amount of the said notes, principal and interest at six percent from the day of the protest at the exchange at Bordeaux, from the funds of the late M. Viviat, as well as the cost for the présent pro- cess. Let it be ordered etc. Done and given by us magistrates in the Court of District of Kaskaskia, the Court being in session, in the fourth year of the Republic of Virginia, September 28, 1779 [Signed] Duplasy. Embodiment1 25 pounds of farine. Carbonneaux, Clerk. [Endorsed:] Judgment against M. Cerré attorney of M. Viviat in favor of M. Jean Dutchurut. 1 i. e. in the records; but the word may be émolument.
Page 125
MONTGOMERY TO CLARK, SEPTEMBER 29, 1779 125 John Montgomery to George R. Clark, September 29,1779. [Draper MSS., 49J74. — A. L. S.] Sir, I Cant not tell what to do in Regard of Clothing for the Soldiers as the Goods you Wrote to Me about is Gon But I Expect Sir that you will Stope them and I would Be Glad that if it is in your power To Send a Relefe to Me for the Soldiers if it is onley As Much as will Make them A litle Jump Jacote ' and a pear of overalls apeas I think they Mite Scuffle threw But in Regard of lining there are Bad of But if I had Som Strouding I Could Exchang it for lining on the other Side as The have all Redey offered it to Me I have Discharged all the famileys and The are about to Settle up the Creek about thirtey Miles.' Sir Agreeable to your orders I have pursued in Regard of James Buckhanan ho on his Examination he saith that his Money that was pead or put into his hand to furnish provision Run out and that he was Compelled to Borrow a Sum of Monney after paying away what he had of his own for which he Sent by Capt Quirk to purchas a quantity of Beacon in washentun County But on Capt Quirks paying for the Beacon it was observed to Be Bad. Capt Quirk delivered up the Money To the Cort the cort Give it to Colo Arthur Campble to Send to the odites3 at Which time Said Cort Sent a copy of their proseeding to me. I ame- diately Rote to Mr Buckhanan Conserning the Sum of Monney Seposed to be Bad by The Cort to Com down and Cleare him Self of the Charge lade a Geanst him at which time he Recvd two Thousand five hundred pounds More Sent to him By the hand of Mr Matison from Government, he then Came and demanded of Colo Campbel the sum of Money in order as he told Me to Return To the Man he Got it from as he then Was Called on By Me to March for this place and if he did not Return the Same Monney that he Must Return othere Money in the place — A Cording to his Bargin and by That Means lose the hole Sum of Mon- ney as it was out of his power to Stand a triel being then Called into The Sarvice of his Cuntrey for Which Colo Campbel punckley Refusd Seposed to Be By the Reson that The were at verence before and The dispute Rased to Such a hite That the Came to Strokes and I Sepoze Colo Campbel to be the informer But for fere it Mite Be two true I 1 Jacket. 3 This settlement was at Bellefontaine, the first settlement of English speaking men of any perma- nency in the Northwest. III. Hist. Collections, ii., (consult Index under Bellefontaine). 8 Auditor's.
Page 126
ia6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Compelled him To Give Seficant Security for his aperenc Be fore aney Cort of Justis if Called. Therefore I think if oppertunity would Admit it would Good for you to Rite to John Montgomery high Sherif for Montgomery County to no the Certenty as his letter May Be dépende on and if he is found Guiltey I dont wish him to go onpunished Nor Can I think of puting up with So henious a crime. I would have Sent him aGreable to order of Govern But if I did his familey Must Suffer nor have I a Gard to Spare. Noing So Much of the nature of The Case as I have Rote you It Geve Me Som Charity to Beleve it Mite Be onley Spite. I have not had a man to desert from this place Since My arivel here But have Beene under the needsatisety of havein som of them whipt for their Conduct a munks hom Mr Joins Be Come one of the Sufferors ho I think has Quite Reformed him But Capt M Cartey has had a good Meney deserted over to pancore By which you will See By his letter no More But Remain your Sincer frend and Humble sarvant John Montgomery N B I Rote the inhabetents a verey Sharp letter and another to Colo Todd But have Reed no letter in answer yet Refering them if did if did [sic] perzist to Peregreen Picke volum the first. Sir Since I Rote to you Conserning Mr Buckhanan I thot of another method To find him out noing where he laid out larg somes of Money Sayre 3500 Doller, From Charloveele 3500 Dollers, Charloveele 700 Dollers, Murrey 300 hun Dollers But after Examing them I Could not find one Bad Bill amunkst the hole Excep one 7 doller Bill Capt Shannon Reed of him 1500 Dollers if he is not left the falls I think it Would Be Good to Examen that Som of Money Sir I am your humble servt To Colo G. R. Clark John Montgomery [Endorsed, apparently by the recipient:] Col Montgomery Sep1, 29th 1779 John Montgomery to George R. Clark, October 2, 1779. [Draper MSS., 49J76.— A. L. S.] Fort Clark, October 2th 1779. Dear Colo, Since I Receved your letters I have Made a second Trial in Regard of laying up a Sufficant Quanty of provision But it seems to no effect as the aGain Répète to Me that them Selves and Negroes is neaked and
Page 127
TODD TO CLARK, 1779 127 Without I can Suply them with Goods or peltry it will be out of their power to Supply Me in More then What the Already have promised Me which will not Be over half anuf to Supply An aremey But Sir as you inform me that you have The disposing of the Goods that Colo Rogers tuck up to the Falls if you thot proper to Send a Quantity of them Back to Me for that purpose or a Quantity of dear Skins with what peltrey I have Got from Colo Todd I think it then Would Be in My power to furnish a Quantity Sufficant for the Supply of a thousant Men Six Months, if you dont think proper to send them Send Me pertucler orders in Regard of teaking it by force and your orders shall be puntkley obed Sir if you Sh think of Sending them the soon nor the Better as I have Eshued a proclamation prohabiten them to transport aney pro- vision of aney Space what Ever till Such times I have answer from you not leting them know that There is aney Expectation of aneything of that kind I have no nus to inform you of But am Sir with Respect to you John Montgomery To Colo G R Clark [Addressed:] To G R Clark John Todd to George R. Clark, during 1779. [Draper MSS., 49J86 — A. L. S.] Sir, Inclosed are several Depositions which indicate a Conduct rather unfriendly in some Gentlemen of the other Side — You being so well acquainted with Mr Cartabona a Remonstrance from you will I make no doubt be well recieved by him. If the Boat & Crew are delivered up for trial (as from the Testimony I think they ought) the Spanish Honour will remain unsullied. The Crew were nearly all in your Corps & on the way to join they therefore Come properly within your Jurisdiction I am Sir Your Hble Serv* Jn° Todd jr [Addressed:] G R. Clark Esq. Commander &c &c &c
Page 128
128 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS John Todd to George R. Clark, October 3, 1779. [Draper MSS., 49J77 — A. L. S.] Kaskaskia, 3rd Oct., 1779. My Dear Col., I lately took a trip to Kohos where I was seized by a fever which reduced Me to the lowest Condition imiginable. I return'd last Night to this place but find myself so week that it is impossible to take full advantage of the present Express by writing to Wmsburg. I lately made a purchase (tho' upon Terms which do not please me) of 21,000 lb Peltry with which I shall always have it in my power to purchase provision here. I think it best at present that the Troops be Supplied otherwise. I wd be glad of your Advice herein. Your Br is Well — Madame Leyba is dead — Madamlle Terese still a Maid &c. &c. &c. If I could get an Oppy of sending you something good to Toast your SweetHeart in I would — perhaps I may Shortly — by Mr Bowman. Complts to Capt. George My Brother Bob & all your Officers. I am Dr Col. with regard Your mo Obed* & Hble Serv* Jn° Todd jr [Addressed:] Geo. R. Clark Esq; Col. of y* Ilinois Reg*&c. Falls of Ohio. Pr. Express John Montgomery to George R. Clark, October 5, 1779. [Draper MSS., 49J78.— A. L., signature cut out.] Fort Clark, Octber 5th, 1779. Dear Colo, I Must Beg liberty to trouble you With a ffew lines. Colo todd yesterday arived from Cahoe and to My Greate Surprise Refuses to let Me have aney of the peltrey1 he allreadey promised me. I Requested of him his Reason for Beheving In Such a mannor after Sending word to The people that the Should have peltrey for Everything the furnished Exclusive of the Contract the allreadey Maid with me leting him no at the Same time your orders to Me in Regard of provision and the Quantity of Men Expected out this fall, his answer was that the Were 1 For further correspondence concerning this peltry, consult Mason, E. G., "John Todd Papers," in Chicago Hist. Society's Collections, iv., 339, 340, and Va. State Papers, i., 380.
Page 129
NOTICE BY TODD, OCTOBER 4, 1779 "9 obliged to Maintain the traps at the Credit of the States and that he had Another use for the peltrey but perhaps if he Saw an expodition Going on in the Spring that he then would advance them. I then told him that know was the time to Do it for if We Trusted till the Spring it Would perhaps be two leat as By that time it Cold Not Be had. he then told Me that he Would Call a counsel of the inhabi- tants and Compel them to furnish But when the Met the punkley denied him. he then told Them if the did not Comply he would Give them up to the Miletery and Quit Them, the answered him the were well aGread to that & So parted. Know Sir with what Face Can I protend to Seas on those people provisio When the know that we have Got the peltrey and will not Give it to Them and our Money is of no acount to Them and our Bills Comes Back protested. The have Greate Reson to think that We onley intend to Baffle them but Sir you May depend that I will do Every Thing in My power and am detrmed to have the provision as I have demanded Every Bushel of Every Space the have To Spare pray Sir Send Me answer as Soon as posible as I have Got My hands full of Busness and am Sir with due Respect your Humble Sarvant [John Montgomery.] [Addressed:] To Colo G. R. Clark at the Falls. Notice Given by John Todd, Oct. 4, 1779. [K. MSS. — A. D. S., by Gooding, Sec.] AVERTISSEMENT Toutes Personnes qui Prettendent propriété a L'emplacement situé vers le millieu de ce Village tenant du coté d'Ouest a Monsieur Piere Langlois, et de L'Est a Monsr Piere Piccard sont requis de m'en faire [Translation.] NOTICE. All persons who may claim to own property in the plot of ground situated about the middle of the village, adjacent on the north to M. Pierre Langlois, and on the east to M. Pierre Picard, are ivXitted u, t*\
Page 130
130 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Parroitre leurs droit dans la Cour de Trois Jours, sans quoy il sera Condamné pour L'usage de la Communauté. Donné sous ma main aux KasK"* ce 4me Octobre 1779 Par Ordre de M. Le Col. Todd S. S. Gooding. [Translation.] forth their claims in the court within three days; otherwise it will be condemned for the usage of the community. Given under my hand at Kaskaskia, this fourth day of October 1779. By order of M. Colonel Todd. S. S. Gooding. William Shannon to , August 3, 1792. [Draper MSS. 46J50.— Contemporary copy.] Jefferson County Sir: I learn by Mr. Clark that a bill for 3836$ Dollars dated June 5th 1779 Drawn by me (while acting as Commsy and QMaster in the Illi- nois) in favour of Capt Linitot,1 on Col G. Rogers Clark is fallen into your hands. That Bill was given by me for Peltries purchased from Monsr Lintot & Co at pancore in the Spanish Dominions, and at the time I drew it, I had Col. Clarks orders to draw on him for any supplys purchased for the use of the troops stationed in the Illinois country, as will appear, reference being had to my orderly book, now in possession of the governor and council. The paper money being of no account these peltries were bought up, to establish a fund to Purchase provisions for the Troops, that were to be left to garrison the Illinois. For an expedition was then proposed by Col. Clark against Detroit. Indeed part of the troops, with the provissions & Military stores were then actually on their march to St vincens on the Wabash, where they were to meet those expected from Kentucky, and to wait untill the ballance from the Illinois would come up. However this expedition fell through and there being sundry bills drawn to a considerable amount on Government, on account of the Expedition, and paper money no longer being current in that country; in that Col: Clark recommended 1 For biographical notice of Geoffrey Linctot, see III. Hist. Collections, ii., 102, n. 1.
Page 131
SHANNON TO , AUGUST 3, 1792 i3I that I Should make up the accounts of the Comms'y & QMaster depart- ments as far as I then could, and proceed with them to government, in order that government might be furnished with the accounts before the Bills were presented — which I did accordingly, and on my departure delivered the stores &c to Mr Patrick Kennady assistant comms'y & QMaster who also received the Peltries for which the bill in your hands was given and paid them away in that and the insueing year for beef Pork flour &c as will appear by his account; Settled in mine with the governor and council of Virginia and confident I am that the provisions purchased by Mr. Kennady with these peltries were laid in at as low a rate as they could have been got, for Gold or Silver at that time. The different prices of the peltries I do not recollect but by examining my books now in the possession of the council of state, you can see what they cost, But I am convinced they were reasonable, For Peltries in that country then sold high. But how government could suppose that Spanish subjects would dispose of their property for paper money, I know not unless it was owing to the false suggestions of Col Todd a gentleman who came to the Illinois in the month of may 1779 in char- acter of chief Magistrate who I believe by his reports to government as well as by his transactions while in the Illinois country had done great injury to the inhabitants. Immediately after his arrival, His pollicy was to put a total stop to paper credit which he did by putting the paper money which he found in the hands of the different Individuals, under cover and sealing it up (where a great part of it yet remains) and giving the holders thereof a certificate specefying that he had Inclosed under his Private Seal paper bills of Credit to a certain amount and for which he promised them (as he said they had been imposed on) lands in pro- portion to the money the[y] brought to him to secrete for them —this proceedure put a total stop ever after to paper credit in that country — the proceedings of that Gentleman in my opinion were uniform for although he left the Illinois about the 10th of June 1779 and went to St vincens on the Wabash a distance of about 240 miles and from thence in July to Kentucky where he remained ' — but not being yet satisfied with the Injury he had done them, He there set down and made out a scale of Depreciations for the Bills of Exchange, drawn for supplies furnished the troops Begining with May 1779, and going on monthly 1 This is a mistake, for Todd returned from Vincennes to Kaskukia and did not leave the latter place till November. III. Hist. Calitctiont, ii., p. Iixiz. For Todd's financial pdicy, *ee ibid., p lui.. cl seq.
Page 132
133 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS until the month of October or November following; Pointing out the different depreciations of those bills at Kaskaskia, Cahokias and St Vincens in the different months1—now before he could have done Justice to the holders of these bills in forming his scale, he ought to have been possessed of the spirit divination, for from July untill No- vember, he was placed in a Situation so remote from the Illinois, that he could not possibly have the most distant Idea of what would be Jus- tice to these people. The truth is (and I conceive I am as well acquainted with the affairs of that country in the year 1779 as Col. Todd or any other person) that the inhabitants would have sold their Beef, flour, Pork &c to the Spaniards for as great a price as they were promised by us. The consequence of their furnishing us, obliged them to send supplies to their Troops from Natchez country and New Orleans. To come to an end pleas to examine the acts of assembly for the year 1790 where you will find an act passed for paying William Shannon and others a sum of money in which government stands bound for the pay- ment of all bills drawn by me and placed to the credit of the state in my settlement now sir by examining my books in possession of the council you will see that the State has credit for the bill in your hands and that the account for which it is given is settled with the state. I am yours most obd't Servt, (Signed) William Shannon Aug 3rd 1792 Col Clark 1 This "scale of depreciation" is printed in ///. Hist. Collections, ii., lui., n. 3.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 133
CHAPTER IV THE COURT AND THE MILITARY, NOVEMBER 15, 1779, TO JUNE 8, 1780. Difficulties of the Military — Bentley Escapes from Captivity — Inhabitants Petition and the Court Asserts Its Dignity — Letter from Governor Jefferson — The Peltry Fund Again — Mont- gomery Threatens to Use Force — Girault Complains of the Court — An Agent of France in the West — John Dodge Reports. John Montgomery to George R. Clark, November 15, 1779. [Draper MSS., 49J85. — A. L. S.] Kaskaskia Fort Clark, Nov 15th 1779. Dear Colo, I no nuse to impart to you but What Colo Todd1 will inform you but Sir I once More Beg leve to Remind you of the destresd Situation our Soldiers in for want of Clothing So that it Renders them in a maner usless and are deserting dealey and all by the Reson that the Cannot Git aney thing to Cover their Skins, there fore Should you have stoped That Cloth that Colo Rogers Carried away I hope you will Send Me a Supply to Remove those Grevences. if you Cannot I Would be glad to Receve your advice how I Shall proseed in The Matter as times is very deficult here as the look on our Monney and bills to be of no More a Count then So Much Blank paper. no More But Remains your Verrey humble Sarvant to Command. John Montgomery [Addressed:] To Colo G R Clark Commander in Cheaf of the Westron department. Falls of Ohiho. tThis letter was probably carried by Todd, who was on the point of leaving Illinois at this time. Todd had succeeded in alienating the French by insisting upon their furnishing more pro- visions without better security than before; but by so doing he had not pleased the military officers, who continued to regard Todd as responsible for the hostile attitude of the inhabitants. III. Hist. Collections, ii., p. Uxix. 133
Page 134
134 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Extract from the Record of the Court at Kaskaskia, November 15, 1779 [K. MSS.—A. D. S.] Extrait des Registres des Audiences du District des KasKasKias En la Comtée des Illinois. a une Cours tenue audit district le lundy Quinzième Jour du mois de Novembre mil sept cent Soixante et dix neuf furent presents Gabriel Cerré, Joseph Duplasy, Jacques LaSource nicolas Janis et nicolas Lachanse tous Magistrats dudit District. Entre Charles Gogoy démeurant En ce lieu demandeur aux fins de LExploit De ce Jour tendant a ce que le deffendeur cy après nommé Eut a lui payer La quantité de mille Livres de farine a lui du par son Billet En datte du Deux Janvier mil sept cent soixante Et seize d'une part et Gerard Langlois Charpentier deffendeur de l'autre part Le Billet reconnu pour du Par ledit Deffendeur et L'Exploit sur date, oui Les Parties en leur demandes et deffences et tout Considérés La Cours dudit district a Condamné et Condamne le deffendeur de payer au demandeur dans le delay De dix Jours datte des Présentes La quan- tité De mille Livres de farine et la ditte Cours la taxée a tous frais de [Translation.] Extract of the record of the sessions of the District of Kaskaskia in the County of Illinois. In a Court held in the said district on Monday, the fifteenth of November, 1779, the following were present: Gabriel Cerré, Joseph Duplasy, Jacques LaSource, Nicolas Janis, and Nicolas Lachanse, all magistrates of the said district. Between Charles Gogoy, living in this place, plaintiff at the close of the writ dated this day, to the effect that the defendant hereafter named should pay him one thousand pounds of flour due him by a note dated January 2, 1776, on the one hand; and Gerard Langlois, car- penter, deffendant, on the other hand. The note has been recognized as due by the deffendant and the writ past due. Having heard the parties in their petitions and defences, and having considered all, the Court of the said district has condemned and condemns the deffendant to pay to the plaintiff within ten days from the present date, the quanti- ty of one thousand pounds of flour, and the said Court charged him
Page 135
BENTLEY TO HALDIMAND, NOVEMBER, 1779 la presente Procedure Mandons &c fait et donné En la Cour Du Dis- trict des KasKasKias l'audience y tenant le lundy dans la quatrieme année De la Republique de Virginie le quinzieme Jour du mois de Novembre mil sept cent Soixante et Dix neuf. signé Cerré Carbonneaux Greffier [Translation.] with all costs for the present process, let it be ordered, etc. Done and given in the Court of the District of Kaskaskia, the Court being in session on Monday, in the fourth year of the Republic of Virginia, November, 15, 1779. (Signed) Cerré. Carbonnea"x, Clerk. Thomas Bentley to Governor Haldimand* Nov1-, 1779. [B. M. 21845, f. 32 —A. L. S.] Sir: The many applications I have made to Your Excellency as well as Your Predecessor with proposals to you both to give security in what- ever manner you woud require it in case you woud permit me to return to my family and your repeated refusals to accede to my request left me no alternative what to do and will acquit me in the Eyes of the World & I should even hope in your own Breast for absconding from the Province. Ties of the dearest nature call loudly for my presence & oblige me if there is a possibility of doing it to join my family let the event be what it will. I beg leave to assure Your Excellency that I do not go with any hostile intention against Government but that on the contrary I never will bear arms ag* it but will serve as far as lies in my power the friends of Great Britain in Distress wheresoever I meet them & endeavor as far as can lay in my power to abate instead of increasing the horrors of war as I scorn to be the means of retalliation upon the Innocent, at the same time all who have been the Cause of my misfortunes I am deter- mined to pursue to the very utmost in order to obtain satisfaction. I beg you will think as favorably as possible of my leaving this which nothing but the most absolute necessity cou'd have compell'd me to, 1 Frederick Haldimand, governor of the province of Quebec from 1778 to 1784. His collection of letters and documents, sent him during the many years of active life in America, are in the British Museum and form one of the most valuable collections of sources on American colonial and revolu- tionary history. For his life see Kingsford, W., History of Canada, v., 471 et seq.
Page 136
136 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS for it was not possible for me to remain here any longer without being supported which notwithstanding my repeated applications you refused. I have been long a burthen to my friends who are but very few in this Country where I am in a manner a stranger & tis not to be wonderd at that I shou'd find myself every day still more and more neglected bereft as I am of making them the least recompence whatever. I am unhappy that I shou'd be drove to this extremity; but neces- sity has no Law & let the Consequence be what it will it is a Justice I owe to myself and all my Connections. I have the Honor to be Your Excellency's most obedient & very hble Servant T. Bentley Montreal Novemr "] * '7"' [Addressed:] To His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Esq1" Governor of the Province of Quebec, General Commander in Chief of His Majesty's Forces in Canada at Quebec. [Endorsed:] 1779. From Mr Bentley, Novr., Recd. 20th. Protest of Inhabitants to Magistrates, December 8, 1779. [M. C, T. MSS.1—Attested Copy.] A Messieurs Les Magistrats du District des Kaskaskias. Messieurs C'est a vous En qui Nous avons mis notre Confience Et que nous [Translation.] To the Magistrates of the District of Kaskaskia. Gentlemen: It is in you that we have placed our confidence and it is you whom 1 Menard Collection, Tardiveau Manuscripts. These are described in III. Hist. Collections, ii., ciii. Since all these MSS., dated before March, 1787, were to be sent to Virginia, they were properly attested, as follows: "A copy conforming to the original which is deposited at the clerk's office in the District of Kaskas- kia in the County of Illinois, and delivered by us, the undersigned clerk, this fifth day of March, one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-one. Carbonneaux, Clerk. "I, Richard Winston, Esquire, Deputy Lieutenant, Civil Governor, and Commandant of the County of the Illinois, etc. etc. etc.. Certify to all to whom it may concern that M. François Carbonneaux whohastranscribeda copy of thepetition, above and on thcother sidc.is clerk of the District of Kaskaskia, and that faith should be placed in the documents which he signs in that office. In witness whereof we have signed in our audience chamber at Kaskaskia, the seventh of March, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-one. Richard Winstont Deputy Lieutenant Governor." _ The original is in French, of which the above is a literal translation. The dates of copying the various documents vary only a few days. Some of Winston's certificates are dated as late as May 5.
Page 137
A PROTEST, DECEMBER 8, 1779 137 avons Elus pour Gouverner ce pais soutenu des loix que vous nous avés fait annoncer dans votre Greffe, Est-il bientôt temps Que vous metiés ordre aux brigandages Et a la tyrannie que le militaire Exerce sur nous tous les Jours? ne deveroit-il pas être content De voir que nous nous privons du pure necessaire Pour suffir à leur subsistance Et que toutes les fournitures que Nous avons faites a L'Etat n'a pu Servir n'y a L'Entretient de nos familles, n'y de nos Esclaves, de qui Nous ne pouvons tirer aucun service dans une saison aussy dure? Pouvons- nous d'un oeil tranquille voir assomer [sic] Devant nos yeux voir assom- mer tous les Jours Les animaux les plus nescessaires a l'agriculture Et aux autres traveaux. Vous avés un moyen sur Messieurs Pour arreter de pareils désor- dres mais nous ne Pouvons nous addresser qu'a vous? pour nous faire voir quelque lueur de cette Liberté qui nous a été tant de fois annoncée, où vous êtes de Concert avec ceux qui nous tyranissent En nous otant Les moyens de vivre Et a Eux aussy; nous ne Croyons pas qu'il Soit nécessaire de vous rapporter dans cette presente le Sujet de nos Plaintes puisque tous les Grieffes se sont passé Devant vos yeux. [Translation.] we elected to govern this country supported by the laws which you caused to be announced to us in your office. Is it not high time that you were putting a stop to the brigandage and tyranny that we are enduring at the hands of the military from day to day? Ought not the military to be satisfied in seeing that we are depriving ourselves of the very neces- sities of life in order to contribute to their maintenance and that all the supplies that we have made for the state have contributed nothing either to the maintenance of our families or to that of our slaves, from whom we can get but very little service in such a hard season? Can we see, without being moved, the animals, which are most necessary for agriculture and other labors, killed every day before our very eyes? You have a sure means, gentlemen, to stop such disorders; but we can come only to you in order that you may show us a glimpse of that liberty which has been so many times promised to us; or are you in agreement with those who are oppressing us by taking from us as well as from themselves the means of existence? We do not think that it is necessary to enumerate in this letter the subjects of our complaint since all these evils have been committted before your very eyes.
Page 138
138 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS En outre vous devés vous appercevoir Mess™ Que la disette de vivre commence a se mettre dans le pais Et qu'a peine pouvons nous suffir a la subsistance de ceux qui véritablement méritent La ration par leur service sans être obligé de nourir Et chauffer des membres Inutiles a L'Etat, vous devés demander un Etat Exact des Rationnaires Et lorsque la troupe aura besoin s'addresser a vous Messieurs pour leurs faire Délivrer ce qui sera Juste. De plus faites attention Messiuers qu'il n'y a Dans ce village que dix maisons peutetre qui Peuvent faire remises Et que l'on crois Encore plus Riches qu'elles ne sont. Nous vous portons plaintes Messieurs Contre un homme qui est commis Sans doute Pour demander du Bois de chauffage que nous ne Connoissons que sous le nom de Gendron, cett homme commande En Maitre et parle aux habitans comme a des Esclaves. Nous somme nés libre Messieurs et nous voulons Joiiir de la liberté de véritable citoyens il deveroit se conformer a ses supérieurs Vous devés aussy observer Messieurs que ce villages a supporté tout le fardeau et la dépense depuis L'arrivée de Messieurs Les amer- [Translation.] Besides, you must be aware, gentlemen, that scarcity of food is beginning to be felt ail over the country and that we can barely furnish a subsistence to those who truly deserve rations on account of their services, without being obliged to nourish and keep warm men useless to the state. You should ask for an exact account of those to receive rations; and, when the troops shall have need of something, they should address themselves to you, gentlemen, so that you may cause to be delivered to them that which will be just. Furthermore, remember, gentlemen, that there are in this village perhaps no more than ten houses that are able to make contributions and thèse are thought to be richer than they really are. We are making complaint, gentlemen, against a man who was commissioned, no doubt, to ask for fire-wood, a man we know only under the marne of Gendron; this man gives commands as a master and speaks to the inhabitants as to slaves. We are free-born, gentlemen, and we wish to enjoy the liberty of of true citizens. He ought to submit to his superiors. You should also note, gentlemen, that this village has borne ail the
Page 139
A PROTEST, DECEMBER 8, 1779 139 iquains Et que les autres ne se sont Sentis de rien où très peu Nous Espérons que vous voudrés les faire contribuer comme nous a la sub- sistance de la troupe puis qu'ils sont plus En Etat que nous suivant leurs nombre. nous avons L'honneur d'être avec respect Messieurs, Vostres humbles Et très obéissant serviteurs KasKasKia le 8 X1™ 1779. signé sur la minutes Brazeaux, a. Morin, Godin, Jean Baptiste Beau- vais, antoine Beauvais, Lonval, Bienvenus fils, P. Deruisseaux, Pré- vost, fr. corcet, une croix pour marque de Jean laruë, une ditto pour marque de pierre Dumont, une Ditto pour marque de Bazile, une ditto pour Marque de fortin Joseph, une ditto pour marque De Jacques devegnais, une ditto pour marque de racine, une ditto pour marque de Germain, une ditto pour marque de Gagné, une ditto pour marque de la chapelle, une ditto pour marque d'antoine Renaud, Biaise Baru- telle, une croix Pour marque de Paul Reaume, une ditto pour marque de Jean baptiste taumur, une ditto Pour marque de Charles de Lisle Et une ditto Pour marque de Joseph Crely. [Translation.] weight and expense since the arrivai of the Americans, and that the other villages have felt the burden very little or not at ail. We hope that you will see fit to make them contribute, as we do, to the maintenance of the troops since they are in better condition to do so in proportion to their numbers.1 We have the honour to be with respect, gentlemen, Your very humble and very obedient servants, Kaskaskia, December 8, 1779. Signed on the minutes, Brazeaux, A. Morin, Godin, Jean Baptiste Bauvais, Antoine Bauvais, Lonval, Bienvenu, Jr., P. Desruisseaux, Prévost, Fr. Corset, a cross for the mark of Jean Larue, ditto for the mark of Pierre Dumont, ditto for the mark of Bazile, ditto for the mark of Joseph Fortin, ditto for the mark of Jacques Devignais, ditto for the mark of Racine, ditto for the mark of Germain, ditto for the mark of Gagné, ditto for the mark of La Chapelle, ditto for the mark of An- toine Reneaux, Biaise Barutel, a cross for the mark of Paul Reaume, ditto for the mark of Jean Baptiste Taumer, ditto for the mark of Charles Delisle, and ditto for the mark of Joseph Creilley. 1 This hint was taken and Colonel John Montgomcry madc application to Cabokia. 1U. Mit. Collections ii., 3S.
Page 140
140 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS The Magistrates to John Montgomery, December 8, 1779. [M. C, T. MSS.—Attestée! Copy.] A Jean M* Gomery Ecuyer Lieutenant Colonel du Régiment des Illinois commandant au fort Clark La Représentation des magistrats du district des KasKasKias. Sur les représentation qui nous ont Eté faitte par Le peuple de ce district des griefs dont nous sommes témoins occulaires nous nous Croyons indispensablement obligé de Les Soutenir dans leur droit Suivant La Loy et déclaration de droit de la Virginie. Nous vous prions MONSIEUR de vouloir Considérer que depuis que les troupes de lestât Sont arrivés en ce pays ce village Seul a fourny Leur Subsistance pour laquelle ce quils en ont retiré na pas procuré a leur donner le moindre Secour pour lentretient de leurs families, ce n'est point un Esprit de Jalousie qui nous conduit Monsieur, Lorsque nous vous parlons des autres villages, mais nous ne Croyons pas Juste que ce district Suporte Seul toute Le fardeau puisque nous sommes Certaine quils sont tous aussi en Estât que nous à proportion de leurs nombres. Nous Espérons Monsieur que vous voudrés entrer en Considération [Translation.] To John Montgomery, Esquire, Lieutenant Colonel of the Régiment of Illinois, Commandant at Fort Clark. The remonstrance of the magistrates of the district of Kaskaskia. On account of the mémorial, made to us by the people of the district, of the wrongs, of which we ourselves are eye-witnesses, we consider ourselves indispensably obliged to support them in their right according to the law and "Déclaration of Rights" of Virginia. We beg you, sir, to remember that, from the time the troops of the state arrived in this country, this village alone has furnished them their subsistance, and that the pay, which they have received for it, has in no way given succor for the support of their families It is not a spirit of jealousy which animâtes us, sir, when we speak of the other villages, but we do not think it just that this district alone should bear ail the burden, since we are certain that they are ail in as good a condi- tion as we are in proportion to their numbers. We hope, sir, that you will consider the wrongs that the troops are
Page 141
MAGISTRATES TO MONTGOMERY, DECEMBER 8, 1779 141 des torts que la troupe fait à ce village en tuant indifferament un boeuf de Chariie &c a celuy qui ne peut sen passer, comment ce même hab- itant pourra-til faire ses trauvaux et fournir a la troupe les bois et autres Choses nécessaire nous vous Croyons trop Juste Monsieur pour penser que vous ayé donné de pareille ordres ce qui fait que nous vous prions dordonnér a ce que La troupe ne Committent doresnavant pareils desordres. Vous ne trouvères pas Etrange Monsieur de vous observer que quantité de personnes non Seulement Blancs mais encore Esclaves, tirent des Rations qui ne leurs Sont pas dues ce qui absorbe Lhabitant, nous avons toujours pensé que Vos troupe Etoient Sur le même pied des troupes réglées, c'est a dire qu'un feu peut Suffire au moins pour neuf hommes, mais non pas Comme a présent où deux personnes font la dépense en bois de neuf ou dix, tandis que d'habitant se retranche et se Gesne a n'avoir que deux feux celuy qui en avoit quatre pour pouvoir suffire au besoin de la troupe. Puisque nôtre devoir Exige que nous Veillons à la Conservation publique, et en même tems à la bonne armonie qui soit Régner parmi [Translation.] doing to this village by killing indiscriminately plow-oxen etc. belonging to individuals who cannot do without them. How will thèse same citi- zens be able to do their work and furnish to the troops wood and other things necessary? We consider you too just, sir, to think that you could have given such orders; wherefore we beg you to order the troops not to commit such outrages henceforth. You will not consider it out of the way, sir, if we call to your attention that a number of people, not only whites but also slaves, are drawing rations to which they are not entitled; a thing which exhausts the settlers. We have always thought that your troops were on the same footing as the regular troops, that is to say that one fire could suffice for at least nine men, but not as at the présent time when two persons use as much wood as nine or ten, while the inhabitant retrenches and incomodes himself by having only two fires, when he used to have four, in order that he may supply the wants of the troop. Since our duty requires that we should watch over the public welfare and at the same time over the good harmony which must reign amongst ail, we ask, sir, that henceforth the troops be given no power to take

This page contains an image.
Page 142
143 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS tous nous Demandons Monsieur que Doresnavant La troupe n'aille point d'autorité prendre Chés l'habitant rien que ce puisse Estre sans un ordre de nous Suivant Larticle 13 de la declaration de droit de las- semblée de Virginie Laquelle assemblée nous a autorizé pour maintenir le peuple du pays, dans toute leur droits et Libertés, Comme il est dit qu'en tout Cas le militaire doit Estre sous la plus exacte Subordination et Gouv- erné du pouvoir Civille à laquelle declaration, Jusqu'aujourd'dhuy le militaire n'a fait aucune attention. Nous Espérons Monsieur que vous voudrés faire attention aux Justes representations que nous avons l'honneur de vous faire Sans que nous ayons le désagrément d'estre obligé de nous pourvoir a Son Ex- cellence le Gouverneur et a L'honorable assemblée de Virginie Ce Sont Les Sentiments avec Lesquelles nous avons L'honneur destre avec Respect Monsieur Vostres humbles et trés obeissants serviteurs signez Duplessy J. LaSource LaChance Janis Plus bas Rich. Winston Commdt fort Clark le 8 x*™ 1779 [Translation.] from the home of the inhabitants any thing whatsoever without an order from us, according to Article 13 of the Declaration of Rights of the Assembly of Virginia, which Assembly authorized us to maintain the rights and liberty of the people of the country. Therein it is said that in all cases the military must be under the most exact subordination to and governed by the civil power, to which declaration up to the present time the military has paid no attention. We trust, sir, that you will give careful consideration to the just re- monstrances which we have the honor to make to you without it being our painful duty to be obliged to appeal to his Excellency the Governor and to the Honourable Assembly of Virginia. These are the opinions with which we have the honor to be with respect, sir, Your humble and very obedient servants, (Signed) Duplasy. J. Lasource. Lachanse Janis. (Lower) Rich. Winston, Commandant. Fort Clark December 8, 1779.
Page 143
JEFFERSON TO , JANUARY 28, 1780 143 Governor Jefferson to [John Todd?], January 28, 1780. [Draper MSS., 50J5. — Copy.] WmSBURG Janr 28th 1780 Sir, By Col0 Legras I have written to Col° Clarke fully as to the military affairs in the Western department. Among other things I have ad- vised him to withdraw to the Eastern side of the Ohio all the forces not absolutely necessary to sustain the Spirits of the Inhabitants of the Illinois, and for their real defence. This necessity has been inferred by the impossibility of our support- ing an armed force where our paper money is not current. We have no hard money among us, and are not able to establish in Europe funds sufficient to cloathe and arm our soldiers. This puts it out of our power to pay hard money Debts with bills, and renders it necessary to press you to purchase nothing beyond the Ohio which can be done without, or which may be got from the Eastern side where paper money will pay for it. The establishment of a post at the mouth of Ohio which will take place this summer will be a convenience to the Trade of the Illinois and near enough to furnish them and Should any tribe of indians commit hostilities against them, Col° Clarke will of course take on him the war, and endeavour to chastise them. We are in hopes you are endeavouring to introduce our Laws and form of Government among the people of Illinois as far as their temper & disposition will admit. I am satisfied of the difficulties attending this and the address necessary. We wish for their own good to give them full participation of the benefits of our free and mild Government. It is also essentially necessary that all who are parts of ye same body politic should be governed by the same laws: and the time to introduce this identity of laws with least inconvenience to themselves, is while they are few. Nothing else can so perfectly incorporate them into the general American body. I find that ye Justices of the peace appointed among them expect to be paid, this not being the practice under our laws, there is no pro- vision for it. Would it not be expedient to restrain these appointments to a very small number, and for these (if it be necessary) to require small contributions either from the litigants or the people at large, as you find would be most agreeable. In time I suppose even this might be discon-
Page 144
144 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS tinued. The Clerks & Sheriffs perhaps may be paid as with us, only converting Tobacco fees into their worth in peltry, as to the rules of de- cision & modes of proceeding I suppose ours can be only gradually in- troduced.1 It would be well to get their Militia disciplined by calling them regularly together according to our usage, however all this can only be recommended to your Discretion. Governor Jefferson to George R. Clark, January 29,1780 [Draper MSS., 29J8-17, copy in handwriting of Mann Butler.] Wms.burg Jan 29th 1780 Sir, Your letters of October 26th & 28th and Novr 6th came safely to hand, and lastly that of August 24th, I am glad the proposition of estab- lishing a post at, or near the mouth of ohio2 is likely to answer as well in practice as to us who judge on theory only, it seemed likely to do. I have therefore written to Mess" Walker and Smith, as you will see by the Enclosed coppy of my letter to them, to take observations of the Latitudes thereabouts, that we may proceed on the surest grounds, you will pleas to furnish Assistants guards and all necessaries. I expect the description of the cliffs &c. will be so minute, as that when you see them, you will know them in the Plat, and of course know their Latitude. The choice of your ground for your fort, must be left to your-self. It should be as near the mouth of Ohio as can be found fit for Fortification and within our own lines, some attention will be Proper also to the circumjacent grounds at [as?] it will Probably become a Town of im- portance. The nature of the defensive works and their extent, you will accommodate to your force. I would recommend great attention to the wood of your stockades, that it be of the most lasting kind. From the best information I have had, I take for granted that our line will pass below the Mouth of Ohio, Our purchases of the Cherokees hitherto have not extended southward or westward of the Tennessee; of course the little tract of country between the Mississippi, Ohio, Ten- nessee & the Carolina line (in which your fort will be) is still to be pur- chased from them before you can begin your work; to effect this, I have written to Major Martin, our Cherokee agent, of which letter I enclose 1 At first there seems to have been some attempt to introduce English modes of procedure, but gradually the French modes prevailed. 2 Fort Jefferson.
Page 145
JEFFERSON TO CLARK, JANUARY 29, 1780 145 you a copy. If the new fort should fall within this territory, and it can be purchased, we may grant lands to settlers who will fix round about the fort, Provided the Assembly should approve of it, as from its reason- ableness I think they will. The manner in which the lots of land are laid off about the French villages, I have thought very wise and worthy of imitation. Perhaps besides guarding your promises of lands to settlers with the condition above mentioned, it would be well to add also, the mode of laying them off. I send you recruiting instructions for having your Battalion filled up with men to be enlisted for the war, as I wish to avoid any on any other terms. Your instructions for recruiting which was communicated to us by some of your Officers in the fall, we took in, and gave them such as are now sent you, Instead of bounty money I send you three hundred Land warrants for five hundred and sixty acres of land each, which at forty pounds the hundred, being the Treasury price amounts to the bounty allowed by law: — these we think more likely to induce men to inlist than the money itself. I also send you twenty four Blank Commissions which will be necessary to officer eight companies, the present plan of the Continental Army having that number in a Battal- lion, and a Captain Lieutenant and Ensign only to each company. The officers of your Battallion when Commissioned will stand on a footing with the officers of the other state-Battallions. The state of the Public finances obliged the late Assembly to reduce very much their military es- tablishment from what they had proposed at their session in May—they discontinued raising both the Eastern Battallions and one of the Wes- tern, so that there will be one Battallion only to send to you, to which is to be annexed Major Slaughters hundred men, who have already marched as I Expect for the falls of Ohio. I wish that one Battallion may be raised in time to join you in the spring. Very few returns having been made to me, I can not say what number is raised, probably not more than half. However, whatsoever number may be raised by that time shall march as soon as the season will admit. By them we will send such stores as to us occur to be necessary, such as powder, Lead, flints, hoes, axes, saws, gimblets, nails, hammers, augers, drawing knives, Trows and camp kettles. If there be any other articles necessary I must get you to write to me on the subject, also to settle the best route of sending those articles hereafter. There being no guards to be had, but militia for conveying them from the frontiers, and no dépendance
Page 146
146 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS on collecting militia, can not you point out to us some place on the fron- tiers, where they may safely be lodged from time to time, and from where you can send for them with a proper escort? I would wish you also to inform me to what post I shall order the Battallion which is to join you. We received letters from Mr Pollock, in the fall informing of our debts at New Orleans, and his distresses. We had just taken measures by shipping Tobacco to France to procure necessaries for our Army.— having no other means of releaving Mr Pollock, we were obliged to give him drafts on France, which took the whole of that fund, and has distressed us exceedingly. The demands of Col° Legras, and Captn Lintotl coming on us now, and it being impossible to rais hard money to discharge them, we are utterly at a loss what to do with them, indeed we shall not be able to determin them absolutely as to the sum we shall pay them, till we know from you what proportion of the Dollars for which they have drafts were expended at the depricated prices, or in other words till we know from you what sum in hard money would reimburse their advances for which your drafts on us were made which we should be glad you would inform us of by the first opportunity, and send a duplicate by some second conveyance. The difficulty of answer- ing demands of hard money renders it necessary for us to Contract no debts, where our paper is not current. It throws upon us the tedious and perplexing operation of investing paper money in Tobaco; finding transportation for the Tobaco to France; repeating this as often as the dangers of captures render necessary to ensure the safe arrival of some part, and negotiating Bills, besides the expensive train of Agents to do all this, and the delay it occasions to the orditer. we must therefore recommend to you to purchase nothing beyond the Ohio, which you can do without, or which may be obtained from the East side, where our paper is current. I am exceedingly glad you are making such timely provisions for your next years subsistence. A commissary for the western Department was appointed in the fall with orders to purchase provisions on the frontiers for one Battallion, his instructions shall be enlarged, and a notification sent him to comply with requisitions, besides this, we leave to your self to Commission Mr Shannon to act as com- misary of Purchases, Issues, Stores, Quarter Master, or what ever else you may find him useful in, I suppose you will employ him principally about the posts while the one acting on the frontiers will be providing 1 Evidently sent to Virginia as agents of the Illinois creditors.
Page 147
JEFFERSON TO CLARK, JANUARY 20, 1780 147 thereabouts. We shall use all our endeavours to Furnish your men with necessary Clothing but long experience renders it proper to warn you that the supplys will [be] precarious, you cannot therefore be too atten- tive to the Providing them in your own quarter as far as Skins will enable you to do it — in short, I must confide in you to take such care of the men under you as an Economical house holder would of his own family,— doing Every thing within himself as far as he can, and calling for as few supplies as possible. The Less you depend for supplies from this quarter the less will you [be] disappointed by those impediments which distances and a precarious foreign commerce throws in the way, for these reasons it will be eligible to withdraw as many of your men as you can from the west side of the Ohio, leaving only as many men as will be necessary for keeping the Illinois settlements in spirits, but we must accomodate our measures for doing this, to our means. Perhaps this Idea may render doubtful the expediency of employing your men in building a fort at Kaskaskia — such fort might perhaps be necessary for the settlers to withdraw into in time of danger but might it not also render a surprise the more dangerous by giving the enemy a means of holding a settlement which itherwise they could only distress by a sudden visit and be obliged to abandon. — Of this you must be ultimately the judge. We approve very much of a mild conduct towards the inhabi- tants of the French Villages. It would be well to be introducing our Laws to their knowledge and to impress them strongly with the advan- tages of a free government — the training of their militia, and getting into subordination the proper officers should be particularly attended to. We wish them to consider us as brothers, and to participate with us the benefits of our rights and laws. We would have you cultivate Peace and cordial friendship with the several Tribes of Indians, (the Shawanoes Excepted) Endeavour that those who are in friendship with us live in peace also with one another, against those whom are our Enemies let loose the friendly Tribes. The Kickapoos should be en- couraged against the hostile Tribes of Chickasaws and Choctaws, and the others against the Shawanoes. With the latter be cautious of the tearms of Peace you admit, an evacuation of their Country, and removal utterly out of interference with us would be the mo*t Hatinfa' -tory. Ammunition should be furnished gratis to those Warriors who go actually on expeditions against the hostile Tribes, as to the English not withstanding their base Example, we wish not to Expouc th<m to
Page 148
i48 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS the inhumanities of a savage enemy. Let this reproach remain on them; but for our selves we would not have our national character tarnished with such a Practice — If indeed they strike the Indians, these will have a natural right to punish the aggressions and we, none to hinder them. It will then be no act of ours — but to invite them to a Parti- cipation of the War, is what we would avoid by all possible Means. If the English would admit them to trade, and by that means get those wants supplied which we cannot supply, I should think it right Provided they require from them no tearms of departing from their neuterality. if they [do] not permit this, I think the Indians might be urged to break off all corespondence with them to forbid their Emissaries from comeing among them and to send them to you if they disregarded the prohibition: It would be well to communicate honestly to them our present want of those articles necessary for them and our inability to g[e]t them, to encourage them to struggle with the difficulties, as we do till Peace, when they may be confidently assured we will spare nothing to put our Trade on a comfortable and just footing, in the mean time we must endeavor to furnish them with ammunition to provide skins to cloth themselves. With a disposition to do them every friendly office, and to gain their Love, we would yet wish to avoid their visits; Except those who come with Cap Lintot We have found them very hard to pleas, expensive and troublesome, and they are.more over exposed to danger in passing western counties. It will be well therefore (Especially during the War) to waive their visits in as inoffensive a way as possible. In a letter to you of the ist instant I supposed you would either the ensuing summer engage either in the shawanoes war, or against Detroit, leaving the choice of these, and all other objects to your self. I must also refer to you whether it will be best to build the Fort at the mouth of Ohio before you begin your campaign or after you shall [have] ended it. perhaps indeed the delays of obtaining leave from the Cherokees or of making a purchase from them may oblige you to postpone it till the fall. I have received Letters from Captains Shelby and Worthington, the former acquainting me he had received your instructions to rais a troop of horse: — the latter, that he had raised one. from the date of your letter to Shelby, I knew you could not have been apprized that the Assembly had authorized us to rais a Troop for you, and that we had given a commission to Rogers by whom you sent us information of the X" ^
Page 149
MONTGOMERY TO CLARK, FEBRUARY i, 1780 149 Capture of St Vincenes. Rogers accordingly raised his men, got all accoutrements, and marched to join you in the fall. As to Capt. Wor- thington who says he has raised his men you must state to us the neces- sity for your having two troops, so we may lay it before the Assembly, who alone have power of giving sanction to the measure. The distress of the public Treasury will be a great obstacle, so that it will be well for you to take measures for researving to your self the benefit of Capt. Worthington's men in some other capacity, if they should be disap- proved of as horsemen. I am Sir, Your very humble servt., (Signed) Thomas Jefferson. His Excellency Brig. Gen1 George Rogers Clark, Commanding western wing U. S. Army. John Montgomery to George R. Clark, February 1, 1780. [Draper MSS., 50J9.— A. L. S.] Fort Clark, February ith, 1780. Dear Colo, Sir I Would be Glad to inform you of som pertiCluers Which I left out in the other letter in Regard of the peltrey Fund 1 Which Colo Todd left in the Hands of Capt Winstone and My Self Which he Had lent to Som traiding Jentlemen all Except What he had propagated to his own Use and Som trifles for the trupes and Fortey fore packs Which it is out of My power to Git out of their hands as the Say the Have accounts aganst the States nearley Sufficant to Ballance their acounts & Before the deperture of Colo Todd Capt Winstone went up to pancore to Receve the Ballance of the peltrey Whch he Receved the above fortey fore packs Som time after I Maid a contract for provition to the amount of fortey packs ho I Geve an order to Receve from Mr peroe2 he winston left it with But upon seing the order he Wrote Me Back a letter that he never Receved But twentey odd packs I then Found that Capt Winstone Must have put the Ballance to his own use I then Geve the inhabents orders on Capt winston Which he Receved and Excepted to the am Amount of the packs he had put to his own use Which he is abliged to pay which Geve Me Som Satisfaction for the Rogery desined to the 1 Sec ante p. 128. 'Micbd Perrault.
Page 150
ISO ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS States I then Called him To an acount for his prosedings his Excuse Was Colo Todd owed him So Much and Was Much disturbed at his disa- pointment in his intended naverey Colo Todd thot proper to Make him Commandant of The [MS. illegible] depertmen to the Greate astonish- ment of the hole inhabetants By which Means from Whence alone no honest hope Could arise he is Carged by Scribeling Sicophant with plunging a nation into dispare While he pointed out the abuses of Free- dom and their faital Effects he would be Blackned by Every Honest Whisperer as the Enemy of Freedom its Self pray Sir Carrey on Som Expodition if possible that I May have the Honour to Be Called away By you from amunks as people ho have So poore faith in the Credit of the State Which Reson Makes Me onhapy Being left without a fund Sufficant to Satisfy their Craving and Mistrustful Desires But Sir asure your Self the honor Due to the Core Shall be Strickley adherd To & I will wait with Contented as My Station will admit untill I have the Honnour of Receving your answer Which I hope will be Shortley old Mr Charlo Veele1 has lost a negro which he Expects is Gon to the falls & if he is he Begs you May take him and Sell him to the Best advantag for him I am Sir your Humble Sarvant Jn° Montgomery. To Colo Clark. [Addressed:] Colo George Rogers Clark, Commander in Cheaf of the Westron department. John Montgomery to Richard Winston, March 5, 1780. [M. C, T. P.— Attested copy.] Sir, I am under the disagreeable Necesity to inform you of the Dis- tressed Situation our Troops is in, and Request of you (as Commandant of the Civil department) to Call your Millitia Officers together and Majestrats Requesting of them to furnish a Quantity of Provisions Sufficient to Serve untill I have my meat Brought in, as they well Know that it has been out of my Power as yet. But the men is now Started for it. Allso Remind them, of the Bad Consequence of Selling their provisions Elsewhere, as it may be a means of Their familly's Suffering — as the Troops they shall furnish — and before that I Suffer as much more; I beg you would inform them to put their Guns in good order, 1 CharlevUle.
Page 151
DODGE TO CLARK, MARCH 10, 1780 as I don't want to take them at any disadvantage — as if they do'nt furnish, I Shall look on them as Traitors to the Cause of america, and Treat them Accordingly. March 5th 1780 (Signed) Jn° Montgomery 1 To Cap' Richd Winston Command<1 a true Coppy John Dodge to George R. Clark, March 10, 1780.2 [Draper MSS., 50J17—A. L. S.] St Vincent March 10th 1780 Dear Col°, Yours I Received by Capt. Baley as also By Mr Linsy who Mis- fortunately Lost his Cannaugh & all his Bagage Likewise my Brother & were obliged to take the woods. I return you my Sincear thanks for approving of my Sencurring the Conduct of the Commander of this Post & am am [sic] Very happy that you have thought Proper to have him relieved as I knew the Bad Consequences that would have attended. Majr Boserons Compnts & returns you Sincear thanks for your Con- sidering him when he was in Greate Constornation what to do for a Small Supply at Present he likewise assures you that he will Do Every- thing in his Power for the Publick Good. But as I Informed you Before By the other Express Mr Cardin's that Colo montgomery had disposed of all the Peltry — But as I am Hond with the authority of transacting the agents Dep* I Shall do Everything in my Power with Justice & Honr for the Publick Good. I Sent your Seal by Jonathan Conger. Mr Ruland is abought your work. Mr Winston writes me that Everything is in grate Confusion at Illenois I am Determined to leave this to morow for that Post and then I Shall Be able to give you A Protickeler account of the Transactions there Majr Bosron Begs your Excuse for not wrighting to you himself this Packet came to hand Broke in the Same manner you receive it. I have the Honr to Be your Very Humb. Servant John Dodge [Addressed:] Geor. Rog. Clark Esqr Col° Command W. Dept. Pr Express Falls Ohio 1The copy is in the handwriting of Richard Winston. A comparison with other letters by Montgomery indicates either that Winston took great liberty in changing the literary style of the writer or that the letter is a forgery. * By a mistake of the copyist the transcript of the above used by me in writing the Introduction to II1. Hist. Collection*, ii., assigned this letter to John Todd. Hence the conclusion drawn from it on p. Ixxix. of that volume is incorrect.
Page 152
152 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Jean Girault to the Court, March n, 1780. [K. MSS.—A. L. S.] A Messieurs les membres très Respectables de la Cour des Kaskaskia. Messieurs, C'est avec peine que J'ay vu le peu de Respect avec le quel plusieurs personnes se sont Comportés en Cour, et qu'en bien des Occasion L'on a mis son autorité en defience. Ayant Considéré combien il est nécessaire pour le bien Public que L'autorité de la Cour Soit Maintenue. Jen ay représenté L'urgente nécessité a Monsieur Le Colonel Mont- gomery luy faisante voir La grande Nécessité de son Aide pour bien Administrer la Justice au Sujets de L'Etat, Il luy plu accorder a Mes- sieurs Les Officiers Civil, L'usage de sa Prison & mainforte en cas de nécessité. Vous seres donc Messieurs en état de vous faire Respecter tel que vos Charges L'exigent, puisqu'il est vray que tous bons sujets doivent respecter L'Etat sous Le quel Ils vivent. Ils doivent aussy respecter Ceux qui le Représente — et tous Ceux qui vous menquent de respect pèchent contre L'Etat et doivent être Punis tel que le Cas L'Exige. [Translation.] To the Members of the Court at Kaskaskia. Gentlemen: It is with grief that I have seen the little respect with which several persons have acted in court, and that on several occasions the authority of the Court has been defied. Having considered how necessary it is for the public good that the authority of the Court be maintained, I have presented this urgent necessity to Colonel Montgomery, showing him the great need of his assistance in order to administer justice worthily to the subjects of the state. He has seen fit to grant to the civil authorities the use of his prison and assistance in case of necessity. You will therefore be, gentlemen, in a position to make yourselves respected in the manner that your position demands, since it is true that ail good subjects should respect the state in which they live. They must also respect those persons who represent the state — and ail those who are disrespectful to you sin against the state and should be punished
Page 153
GIRAULT TO THE COURT J'ay L'honneur d'Etre avec tous les Respect Possible Messieurs votre Très Humble & dévoué Serviteur Girault P1- pour L'Etat 11me Mars 1780. [Translation.] as the case may require. I have the honour to be with all the respect possible, gentlemen, Your very humble and devoted servant, Girault, State's Attorney Mardi 11, 1780. Jean Girault to the Court, no date. [K. MSS.—A. L. S.] Messieurs, Il est venû à ma Connoissance qu'il y à plusieurs personnes Icy qui sont venû de Virginie et de plusieurs Autres parts de L'amerique, qui nont point prêté de Serment de fidellité a L'Etat, et dont vous avés permis de S'Etablir sans même Scavoir qui ils Sont, vous devés Cepen- dant Scavoir que Personne ne doit arriver icy sans rendre Compte de qui ils sont, en Consequence Messieurs Je vous enjoint au nom de L'Etat d'Examiner tous les Etrangers de quel nation ils puissent être qui sont Icy et de faire prêter le Serment Prescrit par les Loix a Ceux qui ne vous produerons pas un Certificat. en ne le faisant pas vous vous Ommetés votre devoir et vous man- [Translation.] Gentlemen: It has come to my knowledge that there are here several persons who have come from Virginia and many other parts of America, who have not taken an oath of allegiance to the state, and whom you have allowed to settle without even knowing who they were. You must, nevertheless, know that no one is to come here without giving an account as to who he is. Therefore, gentlemen, I charge you in the name of the state to examine all these strangers, at present here, of whatever nation they may be, and to see that the oath is taken, as prescribed by law, by all those who shall not produce a certificate. In not doing so you are neglecting your duty and you fail in the
Page 154
154 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS qués aux engagements de votre Serment, et vous estes Responsable a L'Etat de Conduite de toutes Personne que vous permettes de S'Etablir icy sans les sûretés que la loix Exige d'Eux. Le Serment que J'ay prêté en recevant ma Charge m'oblige a en faire mon Raport a mes Supérieurs. Je vous prie de L'Eviter car vous scavés que votre situa- tion est bien Critique et que vous Avés bien des Ennemis, dans plusieurs Occation vous rendés des arrets Sans Oiiir les Parties qui est Expressement defendû par les Loix. J'ay L'honneur detre avec Respect Messr Votre Très Hble Ser* J Girault Procr de L'état. [Addressed:] A Messieurs Le [sic] Magistrats des Kaskaskias. [Translation.] engagements of your oath; and you are responsible for the conduct of all persons whom you allow to settle here without the guaranty which the law requires of them. The oath I took upon entering into my duties obliges me to make a report of this neglect to my superiors. I beg you to avoid this, for you know that your situation is very critical and that you have many enemies. In many cases you pronounce judgment without having heard the parties, an act which is strictly forbidden by law. I have the honour to be, gentlemen, with respect, Your very humble servant, J. Girault, State's Attorney. [Addressed:] To the Magistrates of Kaskaskia. Marie de Rocheblave to [Governor Haldimand?] March 27th 1780. [B. M., 21757, f. 314.-A. L. S.] Monsieur, Comme Je crois que vous n'avez pas oubliés que mon Epoux a Eté prie prisonnier par les rébelles Et amené à Williamsbourg, Etant au service de sa majesté britanique, Je me Recommande à vous pour [Translation.] Sir: As I believe that you have not forgotten that my husband, while in the service of the state, was taken prisoner by the rebels and carried to Williamsburg, I pray for his exchange which I hope will take place
Page 155
ROCHEBLAVE TO [HALDIMAND?] MARCH 27, 1780 155 sont Echange que j'espere que se sera le plutôt que vous pourrez j'ais appris que Mr henry hamilton Etoit bien mal au cachaux, Et à la chaine, on me me [sic] flate que Mr Rocheblave à la ville pour Prison. Je ne sçait si Je doit Le croire Jatan aussi de votre humanité que vous ne me ferez procurer du Dédommagémmant qui puisse me mettre à même de faire subsister ma famille, Et celle de Mr lord que j'ai avec moi, il sans faut infinniment que je naye mes commodités je nàis pas mène le nécessaire tout mon bien a été pyèr on ma laisser que les dêtes. J'ai l'honeur dêtre avec consideration Monsieur Votre très humbles servante Marie Michel de Rocheblave. aux Kaskaskias le 27 mars 1780 Je vous envoyé une lettre que mon Epoux vous Ecrit je n'ai pas pû trouver doccasion pour vous la faire parvenir. [Translation.] as soon as possible. I have been informed that Mr. Henry Hamilton was very sick in prison and in chains. They tell me that M. Roche- blave has the town for a prison. I do not know whether I ought to believe it. I hope also that through your kindness you will see that I obtain indemnification which will put me in a position to procure a living for my family and that of M. Lord, whom I have with me.1 It is nobody's fault that I do not have the conveniences of life, but I do not get even necessities. All my possessions were plundered; they left me only debts.2 I have the honour to be with consideration. Gentlemen, Your very humble servant, Marie Michel de Rocheblave. Kaskaskia, March 27, 1780. I am sending you a letter which my husband writes to you. I did not have the opportunity to have it sent to you before. 1 When Captain Lord withdrew from Illinois, he left his family in the care of Rocheblave. 1 Sce anU, p. 62, for orders by the governor of Virginia that provision should be made for Madame Rocheblave.
Page 156
156 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Edward Murray to , April 19,1780 [Draper MSS., 46J52.— A. L. S.] Dr Sir, I take the Liberty of acquaint* you that I ArriW here in safety but very ill treated by Cap". Dodge who upon my arrival here Refused to pay me a single Dollar and upon my prosecut* him before the Civil Court he Screen"1 himself upon his being an officer and having nothing but his D—d Carcass and that they could not Seize. I therefore beg you will Remit me the Amount of your Draught (but not through the hands of the famous Dodge) for I have been forced to borrow Money from a Friend here to Supply my Wants which make me more uneasy for him than for my own disapointment, therefore I beg you will lose no time as also to thank the Inimitable Dodge for the honour he has done to your draught, your Draught I will leave in the hands of Mr Murray if I should leave this place and to him youl please Remit the Money whether I am here or not. Please Remember my most Respectfull Complnts to Col° Clark and all Enquiring Friends I have the honour to be with Respect Dr Sir your most obd* Hble Serv* EDWd Murray Kaskaskias 19th April 1780 Proclamation by Montgomery, Winston, and St. Germain, May 6th 1780. [B. M., 21782, f. 333. — Copy.] A tous ceux qui ces présentes lettres Verront Salut Scavoir que Jean de S1 Jermain gentilhomme de la ville de Paris présentement Com- mitionné pour interprêter les nations Chaquitas Chicachas & de la partie du Ouest. Le quel pour abréger la route et pour tranquiliser l'esprit remnant des Sauvages qui sans cesse sont tormentés par les [Translation.] To all those to whom these presents shall come, greeting: Be it known that Jean de St. Germain,1 gentleman of the city of Paris, at present commissioned as interpreter to the nations Choctaw, Chickasaw and the western territory, in order to make the way short and to quiet the turbulent spirit of the savages, who are constantly tormented by 1 For what is known of the mission of St. Germain, see post, p. 178, and III. Hist. Collections, ii., Ixxxix., n. 3.
Page 157
A PROCLAMATION, MAY 6, 1780 157 sujets du Roi d'angleterre pour leur faire prendre les armes. Lequel dit J. de S* Jermain ayant passé par cette ville des Cascachias dans laquelle par azard il se seroit trouvé quelque considérés de la nation poux Et saulteuse aux quels il auroit parlé dit publiquement Et par devant nous soussignée ce qui suit pour être rapporté a leur Nation et leur Voisins. Savoir. Que le Roi de France fait a sçavoir a tous les hommes rouges que le François L'espagnol et L'ameriquain a présent ne font qu'un, qu'il les invite tous a rester tranquils a faire vivre leur femme et leurs enfants, Et ne se point mêler dans une guerre qui pourroit leur être funeste par la suite; de supporter leur misère avec patience comme nous faisons nousmêmes, mais qu'ils me sont pas éloignés de leur Bonheur, qu'il n'y avoit que six mois qu'il était parti d'europe ou il a eu l'honneur de voir le Roi, qu'ils peuvent dire avec assurance a leur frères et leur voisins que six mois ne seront point écoulés sans qu'ils ayent tous les secours qui leur seront nécessaires tant de la part des francois, espagnol, que de cette des amériquains, qu'ils peuvent ajouter [Translation.] the subjects of the king of England to make them take up their arms: Be it known that the said Jean de St. Germain, having passed through this village of Kaskaskia, in which by chance there were a considérable number of the nation Potawatomi and Sauteurs, to whom he has spoken publicly and before us, the undersigned, that which follows, in order that it may be taken to their nation and to their neighbors. Be it known: That the king of France déclares to ail the redmen that the French- men, the Spaniards, and the Americans at présent are only one; that he invites ail of them to remain at peace and support their wives and their children and not to mix in a war which may be baneful to them hereafter; to endure their poverty with patience as we endure it our- selves; but he says that they are not far from their good fortune; that only six months before, he had left Europe, where he has had the honor to see the King; and that they (the Indians) can say with assurance to their brothers and to their neighbors that six months shall not pass before they shall hâve ail the succor which they need, not only from the French, but also from the Spanish and the Americans; that they can trust thèse words as well as their brothers, the French and the Americans, the
Page 158
158 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS foi a ces paroles comme leur frères les francois et amériquains dont les principaux ont signé le présent pour servir partout ou besoin sera. Signé. Jn Montgomeri L* Colo Richd Winston, Commd* Civile Jean de S* Jermain Donné au Cascachias, Le 6e May, 1780. Copie conforme a L'original, L. Chevallier [Endorsed:] N° 3. a french Proclamation at the Caskachias, the 6th May 1780. [Translation.] chief of whom have signed the present in order that it may serve wherever it may be needed. Signed: John Montgomery, Lieut.-Colonel. Rich. Winston, Civil Commandant. Jean de St. Germain. Given at Kaskaskia, May 6, 1780 Copy conforms to the original. L. Chevalier. John Todd to George R. Clark, June 4, 1780. [Draper MSS., 50J41.— A. L. S.] RiCHMd 4th June 1780 D' COL. I have much small news too much for a letter but shall not therefore give you none. The Enemy have closely invested Charles Town & reports generally disbelieved say they are in possession. 4000 Men are raised in N. Carolina & 2000 are nearly ready from this State to march to South Carolina under Commd of B Gen1 Edw*1 Stephens. A Camp of 5,000 is to be formed upon the Southern Bor- ders of our State over & above. The Northern States have fairly wrought out their Independanc and are out of Danger. The Heavy Business now lies upon the Southern. You will have no aids from this Quarter except Col. Crocketts Reg* this year. Preparations are already commenced for a grand Indian Expedt" next year — I expect under your command. Mr Henry. Mr R. H. Lee, Mason & many our
Page 159
DODGE TO TODD, JUNE 8, 1780 15g greatest men are now in the House. This is an Oppy rather doubtful when a better offers you'll hear more from your Mo. obl Ser1 Jn° Todd jr. [Addressed:] Col. Geo. R. Clark, Kentucky. To the Care of Mr Evan. Baker John Dodge to John Todd, June 8, 1780 [Draper MSS., 29J36.— Copy in an unknown hand.] Camp Jefferson, Mouth Ohio, June 8th 1780 Dear Col° This is the forth which I have wrote you & I have not Had the Honr of receiving an answer from either of them therefore I expect you have not received them. I receiv1 one by Mr. Clark Likewise the goods in his care But four Pieces of the Blew Cloath much damaged By what I can larn, it got wet coming over the falls which was not known until it arrived here. I have received the goods from Mr Linsey and hear enclose you a coppy of the original Invoice Likewise a Coppy of what I have received for you to Peruse at your Leisure. After 1 arrived at Kaskaskia I went to Mr Gratiote & he told me that he could not nor would not furnish anything on the Credit of the State for his Being Disappointed not receiving the Contents of those Bills on Or- leans had Put him under the necessity of Borrowing funds to Pay his Debts. But If I would engage to Pay in Sepbr he would supply me with anything that he had. Knowing the amediate necessity for Lead, Powder, Horses & other articles & Receiving in my instructions from you that those articles would be better in return for the good alotted in the Indian Dep11 made a contract with him & others to the amount of Seventy Packs But was obliged to pay very extravagant Prices — 20 Livers in Peltry for Powder 12 for Lead which articles could not be vra[original MS. torn] Col° Clark ordered Major Kozroef to draw on me for payment for supplies for the Troops at S' Vincent when Suffering for Provisions — Likewise a horse furnished Mr Lindsay 350 Livres in Peltry — you are a Judge whether I had a Right to enter into Such Engagements or not. therefore I hope that you will take some 1 Major Bosseron?
Page 160
i6o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Method to have them Paid as my Honr & Credit is at stake, it was Col° Clarks orders to me to repair to this Post with all my Stores Before he knew that I had received them & keep them for the use of the Troops & as you are absent I am obliged to Obey his orders, & hear I am obliged to stay until further orders, he has appointed Cap1 George to Issue orders to me to Issue the Goods — Some gets their full Coto & some wont have any — I Cannot refuse his orders — he is Com- edant at this Post. Col° Clark is gone on an Expedition to the Indian Towns. I should write you more pertickelers only I know you cant help of them from Mr. Linsey. Pray excuse me for not sending those articles you ordered me as it was not in my Power to procure them, in my opinion Mr Winston is a damd Rascal & no friend to the coun- try he would not supply me with anything without four times the Price that another askd if I was to write you all the Protickelers of his & others transactions it would take a quire of Paper. Mr Linsey toock out what articles he Pleasd or thought Proper for you Before he gave me the goods, and as he thought there was not a full Proportion for every gentleman who had a right to draw Clothing — in order to set an example to others he Did not take Col° Clark or your full Cota. But the Example was not followed, it would give me Infinite Satis- faction to hear from you. if it should happen that any person went to Orleans to Purchase goods for the use of the State, I should be glad to go as I shall not have much to Do hear this fall. But I shant Ensist without you think Proper. I am Sir you most obedient & very H1 Sl
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 161
CHAPTER V THE SUMMER OF 1780, JUNE TO OCTOBER Colonel de la Balme at Fort Pitt — Bentley Writes to the British and American Officers — Rocheblave to Haldimand — De la Balme Addresses the Illinois French — Mémorial of Griev- ances — Winston Writes of Wrongs — Departure of Mont- gomery — Pétition to the French Minister. Capt. A. Fowler to Nicholas Janis [M. C, T. MSS. — Attested Copy.] Fort duquesne le 25. Juin 1780 Cher MoNsr, Une Lettre de moi vous surprendra peut-Etre mais Je ne suis plus officier Britanique Je préfère mes privilèges et ceux de mes confrères, que de Servir un prince aveugle et obstiné, qui faiblement et de Guaytée de Coeur fait une Guerre à Ses propres Sujets et Consequenmant Contre sa propre Gloire aussi bien que ses intérêts. Jespere que mes amis des Illinois ne mont point Entièrement oublié; Le tems Le ma point fait oublier Lestime, que Japortois au bon peuple de ce pays, et c'est avec plaisir que Je proffite de cette occasion pour Ecrire à Mr Janis en particulier. Je suis content dentendre dire que mes amis des Illinois ont en général opposé Les usurpations et ont aidé et assisté a faire parvenir a [Translation.] Fort Duquesne, June 25,1780. Dear sir: A letter from me will perhaps surprise you, but I am no longer a British officer. I prefer my privilèges and those of my fellows rather than serve a prince blind and obstinate, who feebly and wantonly wages war against his own subjects and consequently against his own glory and interests. I trust that my friends in Illinois have not altogether forgotten me. Time has not caused me to forget the esteem I had for the good people of that country, and it is with pleasure that I take advantage of this occasion to write to M. Janis in particular. I am glad to hear it said that my friends in Illinois have, in gênerai, opposed the usurpations, and that they have aided and assisted in bring161
Page 162
i6s ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS la maturité Lindependance de lamerique, des Inconveniances peuvent avoir arrivé a plusieurs, mais ils ne sont que passagère, La postérité aura Le proffit et leur avantage Sera rendu avec avantage à nos maux. Le porteur de cette Est Colonel de la Balme Gentilhomme francois, de grand mérite il a toujours Esté un solide et uniforme amis aux In- térêts de Lamerique; comme tel Je vous prie de le Recevoir Sur ma Recommendation à votre amitié et attention Je suis persuadé que vous trouverés quil Le mérite. Madame Fowler Est bien et se joint a moy detre affectionement au Souvenir de Madame Janis et toute sa bonne famille et suis avec Egard Chér Mr Votre très humble et très obt. Serviteur A faulér cy devant officier dans le Regt. royal Irlandois Command* des Kas en 1771 et 1772. Mr Janis KasKasKias Illinois Je vous prie de faire mes Compliments au docteur Gibkins et tous nos amis; Jespére que Je nai point Laissé dennemis aux Illinois. A. Fauler [Translation.] ing to maturity the independence of America. Misfortunes may have happened to many, but they are only transitory; posterity will reap the benefits, and their advantages will more than pay for our misfor- tunes. The bearer of this letter is Colonel de la Balme, a French gentleman of great merit.1 He has always been a firm and steadfast friend to the interests of America; as such I beg you to receive him, upon my rec- omendation, in your friendship and attention. I am persuaded that you will find that he is worthy of it. Madame Fowler is well and joins me in wishing to be remembered to Madame Janis and your good family. I am with respect, my dear sir, Your very humble and very obedient servant, A. Fowler2 Formerly officer in the Royal Irish Régiment, Commandant of Kas- kaskia in 1771 and 1772. M. Janis Kaskaskia, Illinois. I beg you to remember me to Doctor Gibkins3 and to ail our friends; I hope that I left no enemies in Illinois. A. Fowler. 1 Thcre is a long account of Colonel de la Balme in 1U. Hist. Collections, ii., p. ixxxix. 3 I have found nothing of importance concerning him except what is contained in this letter. 'Sec JU. HUt. Collections, ii., 4. n. 3.
Page 163
DE LA BALME TO LUZERNE, JUNE 27, 1780 163 Colonel de la Balme to Luzerne, June 2]th 1780. [B. M., 21841, f. 196. — Copy.] Fort Pitt le 27me de Juin 1780. Monsr le Chevalier de La Luzerne Ministre de France a Philadelphie. Monsieur, Avant de pousser plus loin ma Carrière je crois devoir faire part a votre Excellence sans mi attendre le hazard. Mon arrivée au Fort Pit ma peut être rendu utile aux Etats unis, voici comment ils etoient menacé d'une Guerre générale de la part des Indiens. Un officier français né en Canada Monsr Godefroi de Lintot errant depuis plusieurs année chez les Sauvages parcequ'il a reprise de servir sous les drapeaux Anglais suivi d'environ trente Indiens affidé partit le ■jme de mai dernier de cette place pour se rendre chez les Nations afin de parer les Coups qui men- açoient les Frontières des Etats unis, les coliers qu'ils a donné et les Paroles de Paix ont été accueillies des Loups, des Chawana, des Hurons, &c. Plusieurs Indiens sont revenu avec Monsr de Lintot pour rendre les Paroles aux Noms des Autres, a cette Occasion j'ai passé pour un chef français qui venoit apprendre les véritables dispositions des [Translation.] Fort Pitt, June 27, 1780. M. le Chevalier de la Luzerne, Minister of France at Philadelphia. Sir: Before going any farther on my course, I believe that I should com- municate with your Excellency without waiting for the chance to do so. My arrivai at Fort Pitt has perhaps rendered me useful to the United States; this is how they were threatened by a gênerai war on the part of the Indians. A French officer born in Canada, M. Godefroy de Linctot, wandering for many years amongst the savages because he refused to serve under the English flag, accompanied by some thirty Indians dc- voted to him, left this place on the seventh of last May in order to go to the nations so as to ward off the blows which were threatening the fron- tière of the United States; the collars he gave and the words of peace were received by the Loups, the Shawnees, the Hurons, etc. Several of the Indians came back with M. Linctot in order to give their " talks" in the name of the rest. On this occasion I passed for a French chief who came to learn the true disposition of the children of the King of France,
Page 164
i64 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS enfants du Roy de France leurs bienfacteur. Apres avoir tenu Conseil, les Indiens deputé sont venu m'assurer de leur constante affection et de leurs entiere obeissance aux volonté de leur Pere, et ils etoient pret a suivre les Gueriers français pour lever la Hache et frapper mortellement les Ennemis de leur genereux Protecteur, mais ont ils ajouté si notre Pere est allié des Ameriquains pourquoi ceux ci nous laissent ils manquer de tout; faut il donc mourir avec nos femmes et enfants en rejettant les offres qui nous font les Anglais; nous ne les aimons point, nous sommes pret a frapper mais nos urgent besoins nous forceront a la fin de preter Preille a leurs propositions; si on s'obstine a nous refuser plus long- temps ici des secours desquels nous ne saurions maintenant nous passer; les Bêtes fauves qui doivent nous alimenter et nous procurer par l'echange de leurs Peaux des vetements aux quels on nous a abitué sont beaucoup plus farouche qu'elle ne l'etoient avant que nous fissions usage des armes a feu, il nous faut donc de la poudre, des Armes, des Hardes lorsqu'on nous fournit seulement des Liqueurs brulantes qui tuent nos jeunes Gents, on nous a fait mille promesses a Philadelphie l'année derniere, actuellement on ne s'en souvien plus, d'une part nous [Translation.] their benefactor. After holding council, the delegated Indians came to assure me of their constant affection and of their entire obedience to the wishes of their father; and they were ready to follow the French warriors and take up the tomahawk to strike to death the enemies of their generous protector; but they added: "If our father is allied to the Americans, why do these allow us to be in want of everything; must we die together with our wives and children while rejecting the offers which the English make to us; we do not like them; we are ready to strike, but our urgent needs will finally force us to lend an attentive ear to their proposition, if you remain obstinate in still refusing the help which is absolutely necessary to us now. The wild animals which ought to nourish us and procure for us, by the exchange of their skins, clothing to which we have been accustomed, are much more wild than they were before we made use of fire-arms. We are in need, therefore, of powder, of weapons, of traps, instead of the burning liquors which kill our young people, for that is all that is furnished to us. Last year they made us a thousand promises at Philadelphia, now these are not even thought of. On the one hand we are forgotten, abandoned; on the other hand we
Page 165
DE LA BALME TO LUZERNE, JUNE 27, 1780 165 sommes oublié, abandonné, d'un autre solicité et quelque fois menacé, par les Anglais, dans cette Occurance que pouvons nous, que devons nous faire? Vous devez rester en paix et tranquile leurs aye dit, amoins que vous ne vouliez encourir la disgrâce de votre Pere, vous exposer a sa vengeance, a celle des Espagnols, et des états unis ses alliés et vous voir abandonner les Anglais qui sont menacé de toute Part, même dans leur propre Pays, jay ajouté les raisons qui m'ont paru les plus propre a les convaincre, ensuite ils se sont retiré à leurs Camp en me disant qu'ils etoient prêt a marcher contre les Ennemis de leurs Pere et de ses alliés des qu'on les requerroit. Nous avons diverse fois versé a boire a ses Messieurs qui bien fardé et bien emplumaché avalent sec et partrop imoderement les liqueurs les plus fortes, je désire que leurs promesses soient bien observée, mais j'avous que je n'y ai pas grande confiance parcequ'on se ruine en promesse, En égard de la conduite des Habitants de ces frontières icy car excepté le Commandant du Fort Pit tous ont des procèdes révoltant envers les Indiens, pendant qu'on traitoit de Paix au Fort un parti de huit hommes va chez les Nations pour masacré quelques Indiens, d'autres vont voler quatre chevaux [Translation.] are solicited and at times threatened by the English; in such a situation what can we do, what ought we to do?" I told them: "You must remain at peace and be quiet, unless you wish to incur the displeasure of your father, expose yourselves to his vengeance and to that of the Span- iards and the United States, his allies, and see yourselves abandoned by the English who are threatened on ail parts, even in their own country." I added the reasons which seemed to me the most fit to convince them. Then they withdrew to their camp telling me that they were ready to march against the enemies of their father and of his allies, the moment they were asked. We poured out drink several times for thev; gentlemen, who, well painted and feathered, gulp down quite to excess the strongest liquors. I désire that the promise to them be well kept, but I confess that I have no great confidence, for one ruins oneself by promises, considering the conduct of the inhabitants of thèse frontiers; for aside from the commandant of Fort Pitt, ail hâve a revolting behaviour towards the Indians. While the question of peace was being treated at the fort, a band of eight men went to the nations in order to massacre a few Indians; others went to steal four horses near their camp. From ail thèse di»-
Page 166
i66 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS prés de leurs Camps, De toutes ces friponneries et de ces perfidies il doit résulter un grand fond de haine qui engendre nécessairement la Guerre dont pluisieurs familles sont victimes; voila le résultat des des- ordres et des inconséquences qui semblent caractériser dans beaucoup d'occasion Messieurs les colons anglais. Nous partons moi quatrième français pour naviguer sur l'Ohio bien armé et nous rendre aux Illinois accompagné d'une Princesse Chawoua- naise un peu suranné. Quand a Monsr Godefroi de Lintot il part pour se rendre a la même destination par terre il visiterat les Nations des- quelles il parle très bien les différents Langages afin de les affermir pour la Cause des Etats unis a la quelle les français prene unaninement un vif Intérêt. Cet officier est vraiment digne des plus grands Eloges, son Zelle a cet égard la porte a donner aux Indiens ses Chevaux, ses Effets et souvent ses Habits pour allimanter leurs attachement aux Français, on croiroit en réfléchissant sur sa Générosité que la France le comble de bienfaits pendant qu'elle ignore la Noblesse de ces procèdes a cet égard. Cest un témoignage que je ne lui refuse avec tous ceux qui le connoise et que je désire bien sincèrement lui être de quelques [Translation.] honesties and perfidies there must resuit a great fund of hatred which of necessity engenders war, of which many families are victims. Thèse are the disorders and the inconsistencies which seem to characterize, in a number of occasions, the English colonists. Three Frenchmen and I are about to start well armed to navigate the Ohio and reach the Illinois, being accompanied by a Shawnee princess somewhat old. As for M. Godefroy de Linctot, he starts over- land to reach the same destination; he will visit the nations whose dif- férent languages he speaks very well, in order to attach them to the cause of the United States, in which the French unanimously have a deep interest. This officer is indeed worthy of the greatest praise. His zeal in this cause has led him to give to the Indians his horses, his goods, and often his clothing, in order to maintain their attachment for the French. One would believe, in reflecting on his generosity, that France is weighing him down with bounties, when actually it ignores the nobil- ity of thèse actions altogether. It is a testimonial that I do not refuse him, as well as ail those who know him, and I sincerely hope to be of some advantage to him. I hope that the French, scattered throughout both
Page 167
DE LA BALME TO LUZERNE, JUNE 27, 1780 167 avantage. Jespere que les Français dispersé sous les deux Hémisphère en tireront un réel de l'intelligence qui règne entre eux et les Indiens, en sorte qu'étant bien unis ils pourroient loin de recevoir faire la loi a quiconque parceque j'apprent tous ceux qui sont indépendant, ou qui doivent incessament le devenir sont prêt a se tendre une main frater- nelle, Présage de leurs futur bonheur. Le temps lèvera la voile qui ravis les objets aux Curieux attentifs Observateurs, des Catastrophes et des Révolutions. En quelques Endroit que je porte mes pas je me ferai un plaisir réel de faire part a votre Excellence, de ce que je penserai mériter son atten- tion et de l'assurer de la respectueuse considération avec laquelle je ne saiserai d'être. de votre Excellence le très humble obéissant ser' Signed. Colonel La Balme. Le Nommé Pierre Tibau ancien soldat français qui a servi 18 ans dans le Reg* de Provence d'Infantrie demand d'être reclamé par votre Excellence comme déserteur français, et d'aler servir sous les Drapeaux du Roi, cest un beau et vigoureux soldat, il est Corporal dans la Com- [Translation.] hémisphères, will get a glimpse of the understanding which exists be- tween them and the Indians, so that being well united they will be able, rather than to receive the law, to make it to everyone; for I find that ail the Indians, who are independent, or who are to become independent before long, are ready to lend a fraternal hand, an omen of their future happiness. Time will lift the veil which hides the objects from the curious and attentive observers of catastrophes and révolutions. In whatever place I may happen to go I shall consider it a real pleasure to inform your Excellency of whatever I may consider worthy of your attention, and to assure you of the respectful esteem, with which I shall never cease to be, your Excellency's very humble and obedient servant, (Signed) Colonel La Balme. The man named Pierre Tibau, former French soldier who served for eighteen years in the infantry of the régiment of Provence, and asks to be reclaimed by your Excellency as a French déserter, and to go to serve under the banners of the king, is a fine and vigourous soldier. He is corporal in the company of Captain Greek of Col. Proter's régiment
Page 168
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS pagnie du Capitaine Greek du Reg1 du Col1 Proter Artillerie. Cette Compagne vient d'etre détachée au Fort Pit. Oserois-je prier votre Excellence de vouloir bien avoir la Bonté de faire passer en France l'inclut sll lui plait. A true Copy. (Signed:) Ar S. De Peyster. [Endorsed:] The late Colonel La Balm to the Chevallier de La Luzerne, June 1780. [Translation.] of artillery. This company has recently been detached to Fort Pitt. May I dare to ask your Excellency to be kind enough to pass the enclosed to Frace, if it pleases you. A true copy. (Signed) A. S. de Peyster Thomas Bentley to A. S. de Peyster, July 28th 1780. [B. M., a 1845, f. 40. — A. L. S.] Sir, I hope you will be pleased to excuse my troubling you from this Quarter as I cannot omit this opportunity of informing you of my safe return to this Country. Finding that all my Efforts to procure a Pass were ineffectual I was reduced to the disagreeable necessity of trusting to the woods for my escape which I effected though at a season very unfavorable to my design. I left Canada with a full intention to revenge myself on Govr Hamilton but I was no sooner at liberty than I forgot my animosity with regard to him looking upon him only as a secondary Cause influcne'd by the evil Machinations of Rocheblave in conjunction with a Cerré who were inspired with no other motives than those of envy and most inveterate Malice to defame my Character and bring my Affairs to Destruction which I am sorry to say they have fully effected insomuch that it will be difficult for me to recover myself from the diffi- culties which the unhappy effects of their Malice have subjected me to. I waited on Govr Hamilton in the Jail at Williamsburgh & made him a tender of my services. He thank'd me saying he did not expect any alteration in his circumstances but what the fate of arms might give him, he expatiated much on the manner of losing Post Vincennes saying he was betray'd in the basest manner by the French people of the Place. Mr Dejean being desirous of coming here I applied in his favor to the Governor & Council of Virginia, my sufferings give me some claim to
Page 169
BENTLEY TO CLARK, JULY 30, 1780 169 their attention & I was the means of procuring his permission to come to this Country. Colo. Montgomery who commands in Colonel Clark's absence has given him permission to send for M" Dejean. Notwithstanding that I am out of the reach of persecution I still wish to assure you that Rocheblave's accusation of me was false and that I was made a Prey to Malice of the deepest Hue; this I beg you will acquaint General Haldimand of who I hope from his former knowledge of me at Pensacola is still my friend and that he will impute my abrupt departure from Canada to no other Cause than my great anxiety to join my affairs at the Illinois which I had reason to think were going wrong on account of my long absence & which I unhappily found to be the case nor is there any remedy left me but patience. I have the honor to be, Sir, Your very obed' hble serv' Post Vincennes, 28 July 1780. T. Bentley. At* Schuyler De Peyster Esqr [Endorsed:] from Mr Bentley to Major de Peyster, dated Post Vin- cennes the 28th July 1780. Thomas Bentley to George R. Clark, July 30, 1780. [Draper MSS., 50J51. — A. L. S.] Post Vincennes the 30th July 1780 Dear Sir, I cannot omit this opportunity of writing You to inform You that nothing very material has happened since You left us. The Savages are constantly way laying the Boats & lurking about, take a Scalp now & then. There is a French Colonel lately arrivd here from Fort Pitt his name is De La Balme. He has already had the address to ingratiate himself with the French people of this Place as also with the Savages to whom he has advancd things prejudicial to the Int* of the State. The People here being on the Point of going on an Expedition to the Miamis & chusing this man to command them Mr Dalton has with great pro- priety put a Stop to his going as he certainly is a dangerous Man & much might be dreaded from his Discourses with the Savages was he permitted to go among them for everything he advances tends to advance the French Interest & depreciate the American. The People here are easily misled; buoy'd up with the flattering hopes of being again subject
Page 170
X70 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS to the King of France he coud easily prevail on them to drive every American out of the Place & this appears to me to be his Plan.1 I hope You will succeed on Your Shauney Expedition as it is said You are going there. When You were at Kaskaskias You were pleased to promise me a Hundred Weight of Gunpowder of the Two Hundred owing me by the State. I wish You woud be kind enough to write Capt. George to deliver it me. If you let me have the 2 C it woud be doing me a very material service at this time as I want it for the Savages who cannot hunt for want of Ammunition & as I have a Hundred & Thirty Packs of Peltry to pay at the Illinois I do not know how it will be possible for me to do it without your returning me the Powder. I beg therefore You will take it into serious Consideration—Think only that all I ask is my own & how hard it is that I shou'd so suffer for the want of it as it may be the occasion of all my Effects being torn to pieces. I hope I need not say more to induce You to write Capt. George on this Subject. Should You go to the Governor's &c before Your return here & that they should think proper to establish a Place of Business in these Countries & determine at the same time to support it properly I will undertake the Execution thereof Or if they will leave the Plan to me let them procure an assortment of Indian Goods such as woud have formerly have amounted to four Thousand Pounds Sterling with an extra Qnty of Gunpowder on acco of the war & I shall not fear of not only keep- ing the Savages quiet on all these Comunications but also make advan- tagious returns for the Goods the assortment to be supplied annually. Assure Yourself that I am with much regard & truth Dr Sir Your very obed* hble Serv* T Bentley Mr Dalton has suffered this man to go with the Savages &c above I have taken a great deal of pains to represent to him the ill consequences attending it but to no purpose. I gave Mr. Dalton convincing Proofs that this man on his arrival here councild the Savages in the presence of all the people here to go & advertise the Shawnies of Your preparations to go to war against them with many other Circumstances of equal bad tendency. Every well wisher is surprised at Daltons behaviour & it woud be well for You to send a Party under the Command of an Officer you can depend upon if you wish to keep this Country & its Savages in favor. Colo. Clark 1 Comp»/e ///. Hist. Coiltcliom, ii, p. ic.
Page 171
BENTLEY TO HALDIMAND, AUGUST 12, 1780 171 Thomas Bentley to Governor Haldimand, August 12th 1780. [B. M., 21845, f- 44 — A. L. S.] Ouyah the 12th August 1780. Sir. I have come 160 Leagues from the Illinois thro' a Country every- where exposed to Indian War Parties purposely to debarass me from that Veil of Calumny which was thrown upon my Character by Roche- blave, Cerrée & others who had no other views than those of envy & malice of the deepest Dye to stigmatize my Character & blast my Fame to the end that I might be removed from a Country where the flourish- ing State of my affairs & the Preference which some of the Savage Nations shew'd me rendered me an Eye sore to them in trade & conse- quently an object (if possible) to be removed at all events. I Knew their Plot before I left Illinois, but conscious of my Innocence I went undismay'd resting my safety on that alone. I was unhappily mis- taken. You know the rest. My affairs have been totally ruind by my absence & all my property in a manner has gone to rack. Still, Sir, I am happy to have this opportun* to assure you that I am no Enemy to my Country; on the contrary I have & ever shall entertain a warm and sincere attachment thereto & its Interests so long as God shall bless me with Life. 'Tis true that vexation at the treatment I met with whilst I was in Canada (being informed all the time of the destruction to my property at home) enraged me to say many things foreign to my thoughts & which would no doubt be construed to my disadvantage. The proposals I had the Honor to make you when last I had the pleas- ure of seeing you, repeated to you likewise by my friend, Mr Farques, you were pleased ro reject imagiring them offered as Inducements for my Liberty. These I now beg leave to reiterate to you, thrice happy on the occasion to convince you that I am not the wretch I was repre- sented to you to be. Was it not that my presence was required to endeavor if possible to repair my broken affairs & the small encour- agement I had to hope for from my usage in Canada I should already have gone back to Detriot. My conjugal Ties (which with my Property composed all that was dear to me in these countries) being defiled and broken indissolubly by my absence there remains but little to engage my stay in the Country nothing in competition with joining my Country if I can be of use & doing Justice to my connections. If therefore I
Page 172
172 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS can be of any service to you & that I can be assured of your favor to assist me to reestablish my broken fortunes you have only to acquaint me thro' the channel of Major De Peyster & I will endeavor if possible to quit my affairs which are still considerable being widely dispersed & shall from this time contract them for the purpose. I cannot conclude this without informing you that if you wish to possess the Illinois & Post Vincennes you may easily accomplish it. The inhabitants discontented with the Americans will not resist regular troops. Savages they ever will, fearing their cruelties. Three Hun- dred Sol" to come down the Illinois River would easily possess them- selves of the whole Illinois Country Spaniards & others. This certainly would be an object worthy the attention of Great Britain as it woud add the Missoury trade which is of itself consequential as well as the Savage interest dependent thereon, who being very numerous might be renderd of great account & woud of course be a very valuable acquisition. A Hundred regulars woud easily possess themselves of Post Vincennes. Lieut* Govr Abbot being much esteemd in this Country woud be received with open arms. From these Countries an Expedition woud easily be carried on to the lower parts of the Mississipppi & with the assistance of 1,000 Men annex New Orleans to the Empire. It may not be unnecessary to inform you that the Illinois Settlemnts coud victual a garrison of 300 men throughout the year. I have the Honor to be with all due respect, Sir, Your very obedient & most hble Servant T. Bentley. His Excy Fredk Haldimand Esq. [Endorsed:] From Mr Bentley to 1. Gen. Haldimand Dated Ouyah 12th Aug' 1780. Thomas Bentley to A. S. de Peyster, August 12th 1780. [B. M., 21845, f. 42.—A. L. S.] Ouyah the 12th August, 1780. Sir, I beg leave to refer you to what I have already wrote you on the subject of Mr Dejean. I beg the favour of you after perusing the enclosed to address & forward it to General Haldimand. As I wish to remit to Canada as well as to draw off from this Country I propose
Page 173
ROCHEBLAVE TO HALDIMAND, SEPTEMBER 9, 1780 173 sending boats up this river for Detroit as well as the Illinois River for Macinac next Spring. I coud wish for that purpose if it does not clash with the Service that the Savages might be requested not to molest any Boat going up those Rivers for the purpose of carrying Remittance which I hope & doubt not but you will think reasonable. If the Gen- eral or yourself shoud do me the honor to write me wish you woud adress me in a fictitious name for fear of accidents & send it by a per- son of confidence to be deliverd only to myself. It is reported here that Canada is attacked by a French Fleet. If it is likely to fall (which I hope will never be the case) beg of you to destroy these letters. I have the Mortification to inform you that Rocheblave's malice has ruind me (irretrievably I fear) although my misfortunes originated with you yet I do not blame you. If you will be pleased to put me in a way of recovering myself at Detroit which you now have in your power to do, I will repair to you on your sending me proper Guides, but it must be in the Mercantile Line as I coud not pay my debts & recover my lost Fortune by any other means. I have the Honor to be with real respect, Sir, Your very ob' hble Serv' T. Bentley. I shall winter at Kaskaskias. I beg this may not be talked of in case of any Deserters from you that might inform of me. Major De Peyster. [Addressed:] Arl Schuyler De Peyster Esqr Command' Detroit. [Endorsed:] From Mr Bentley to Major De Peyster Dated Ouyath 12th Aug* 1780. Philippe de Rocheblave to Governor Haldimand, September 9, 1780. [B. M., 21782, f. 397. — A. L. S.] Monsieur, j'ay l'honneur d'informer votre excellence qu' après deux ans et demi de captivité j'ay eu le bonheur de m'echaper de parmi les rebelles [Translation.] Sir: I have the honor to inform your Excellency that, after two years and a half of captivity, I had the good fortune to escape from amongst
Page 174
î?4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS et suis arrivé icy avec mr Scheteling lieutenant des volontaires du De- troit au comencement de juillet dernier, je comptois avoir l'honneur de vous voir et d'ofrir mes services mais le marchand qui avoit promis d'armer un bâtiment de vint pieces de cannons ayant juge a propos de n'envoyer qu'un petit avec six pieces de trois livres, J'ay craint avec raison d'augmenter le nombre des malheureux qui ont été pris cette année en voulant aller en Canada et sur ce qu'on dit généralement icy qu'il doit y avoir une expedition pour la virginnie je vais demander d'y aller si comme je l'espère elle est heureuse, je demanderay la permission de lever quelques troupes ou volontaires pour essaier de chasser les rebelles de cette partie de votre gouvernement située le long du misisipi, ouabache et ohio. Depuis quatre jours on a reçu icy par la voie des rebelles la nouvelle de l'entiere déstruction de leur armée aux ordres de mr gates que le lord Courwallis a attaqué et défait sur les frontières du sud et nord Caroline, les papiers rebelles font monter leur perte a prés de mille hommes, des particuliers arrivés de philadelphie disent que l'entière [Translation.] the rebels. I arrived here about the first of July with M. Schiffelin lieutenant of the volunteers of Detroit. I had hoped to have the honor of seeingyou and offering you my services, but since the merchant, who had promised to arm a vessel with eight pieces of cannon, has seen fit to send me nothing more than a small boat with six pieces of three pounds, I was afraid, and with reason, to increase the number of unfortunate men who have been captured this year while trying to go into Canada. Judging from what they say generally around here, there is to be an expedition to Virginia. I am going to ask permission to go there. If, as I hope, it is successful, I shall ask permission to levy some troops or volunteers in order to try to drive the rebels from that part of your govemment situated along the Mississippi, Wabash, and Ohio. Four days ago we heard here, from the mouth of the rebels, the news of the complete destruction of their army under the command of M. Gates, who was attacked and defeated by Lord Cornwallis on the frontiers of South and North Carolina. The rebel papers estimate the number of their loss at almost one thousand men. Some individuals just arrived from Philadelphia say that the entire destruction of their
Page 175
ROCHEBLAVE TO HALDIMAND, SEPTEMBER 9, 1780 175 destruction de leur armée a été la suite de cet événement heureux que le peu qui a échapé a la poursuite la plus chaude s'est retiré en virgin- nie après avoir abbandoné aux vinqeurs leurs armes, cannons, magazins et bagages et qu'il n'y a plus aucune troupe rebelle en nord Caroline, ainsi voila dans la campagne la plus heureuse de toute cette malheur- euse guerre deux provinces conquises avec grande espoir d'y ajouter la virginnie avant et dans le cours de l'hiver, l'armée de wasginton [sic] est campée a environ quarante milles d'icy il a détaché ces jours derniers dixhuit cent hommes pour le sud et il a été abbandonné par la milice de pensilvanie qui sur le bruit de l'échu dans la Caroline s'est retiré et a été ches elle, la désertion est grande ches eux leur papier tant viel que neuf est tombé dans le plus vil mépris les françois sont a rhode island quelques uns ont joint wasginton et ont fait avec les rebelles une aparition sur l'autre rive de la rivière du nord et se sont retirés après avoir pillié amis et enemis. Il est bon que votre excellence sache que tout l'hiver dernier le chevalier de la Luzerne se disant ambassa- deur de france auprès du congrès a eu une relation suivie en canada [Translation.] army was the outcome of this happy event, that the small portion which escaped the warmest of pursuits withdrew into Virginia after having abandoned to the conquerors their weapons, cannons, magazines and baggage, and that there is not a single company of rebels in North Car- olina. Thus we see, in the most fortunate campaign of ail this wretched war, two provinces conquered, with great hopes of joining to it Virginia before or in the course of the winter. The army of Washington is camp- ing at about forty miles from here. He has detached during thèse last few days eighteen hundred men to send to the south; and he was aban- doned by the militia of Pennsylvania, which, upon the report of the defeat in Carolina, withdrew and went home. Disertion is great amongst them. Their paper money, both old and new, has fallen into the greatest contempt. Of the French, who are in Rhode Island, some joined Wash- ington and appeared with the rebels on the left bank of the North River, and withdrew after having plundered friends and enemies. It is well that your Excellency should know that during the whole of last winter Chevalier de la Luzerne, claiming to be ambassador of France at Congress, had a continuous correspondence in Canada with the new and old subjects. This correspondence was kept up by means
Page 176
176 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS avec de nouveaux ou antients subjets, cette relation a été pratiquée par l'intervention des sauvages ou autres, j'en ay eu accidentellement connoisance étant ches le consul de France parent de l'ambassadeur qui ne croyant pas que j'entendis l'anglois le disoit a ses amis, je me trouvay avec luy a l'occasion contenue dans l'article suivant. Il me fut proposé dans le cours de l'automne dernière de retourner aux illinois pour gouverner le pays au nom du congrès avec les tiltres de gouverneur surintandant des indiens et colonel on me restituoit tout ce qui m'avoit été pris moyenant que par un serment de fidélité je devins un sujet du congrès, on doutoit dautant moy disait on que j'accepte ces ofres, qu'étant né françois il etoit surprenant que j'eus travaillé contre les ameriqains; le gouverneur et le conseil de Virginie sur mon refus résolurent de m'élogner a jamais de l'amerique; ils dirent au marquis de vaudreuil comendant le fendant de 74 qui a passe l'yver en Virginie, que j'etois un mauvais sujet venu d'europe qui abusois de l'ascendant que j'avois sçu prendre sur les habitants et les sauvages [Translation.] of the Indians or others. I accidently found it out while I was with the French consul, a relative of the ambassador. The consul believing that I did not understand English was recounting it to his friends. I happened to be with him on the occasion described in the following paragraph. It was proposed to me, in the course of last fall, to return to the Illinois in order to govern the country in the name of Congress, with the titles of Governor, Superintendent of the Indians, and Colonel. They promised to restore ail that had been taken from me; provided I would become, by taking the oath of fidelity, a subject of Congress. They expected, they said to me, that I would accept thèse offers; for, being a Frenchman by birth, it was surprising that I should have worked against the Americans. The governor and the council of Virginia, upon my refusai, resolved to get me out of America forever. They said to the Marquis de Vaudreuil, commanding the ship of 74 guns [ ?] which passed the winter in Virginia, that I was a bad subject just come from Europe, who abused the power that I had managed to gain over the inhabitants and savages of the Mississippi in order to cause them to revolt against the Americans; and furthermore they asked himto trans- port me to France or to the West Indies.
Page 177
ROCHEBLAVE TO HALDIMAND, SEPTEMBER 9, 1780 177 du misisipi pour les soulever contre les américains et luy demandèrent de me transporter en france ou dans le ouest indies. Le marquis m'envoya un oficier de ma connoisance qui avec le lieutenant de la comté ou j'etois sur parole m'amenèrent a luy sans me le proposer et sans exiger de parole pour retourner; mr de vaudreiiil me dit qu'il falloit passer ou en france ou dans les isles sur ce que je luy dis que le roy de france nous ayant abandonne a la paix dernière, nous étions devenus sujets anglois et qu'il ne pouvoit exercer aucune jurisdiction sur moy qui de plus avois ma femme et mes enfants aux illinois, il me dit qu'il ne pouvoit m'amener malgré moy, qu'on l'avoit trompé en luy faisant entendre que je venois d'ariver en Amérique, le conseil voyant qu'il n'avoit pas réussi m'envoya une parole a signer ce que j'evitay en faignant d'être très malade et m'échapay. J'ay vu l'hiver dernier a Williamsbourg le nome linctot canadien ancienement enseigne au service de France, auquel la letre du comte distain aux canadiens a tourne les cervelles et £ fait quiter son pays pour débaucher les indiens sous le nom des françois il a amené trois savages avec luy qui ont eu des conférences avec mr de vaudreiiil, le consul de France [Translation.] The Marquis sent to me an officer, an acquaintance of mine, who together with the lieutenant of the county where I was on parole, took me to him (the Marquis) without proposing it to me and without de- manding a parole to return. M. de Vaudreuil told me that I must go either to France or to the Islands. Whereupon I told him, that, the king of France having abandoned us when peace was made the last time, we had become English subjects, and that he could exercise no jurisdiction over me, and that, moreover, I had my wife and children in Illinois. He said to me that he could not take me against my will, that they had deceived him in making him believe that I had just arrived in America. The council, seeing that it had not succeeded, sent me a parole to sign which I avoided by pretending that I was very sick; and then I escaped. I saw last winter at Williamsburg the man named Linctot, a Canadian, formerly an ensign in the Franch service, whose head has been turned by the letter of Count d'Estaing to the Canadians, which caused him to leave his country in order to entice away the Indians in the name of the French. He brought with him three Indians who had conférences with M. de Vaudreuil, consul of France, and the
Page 178
178 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS et le soi-disant gouverneur de virginnie, avec tout cela ils m'ont promis dans la nuit avant leur départ d'être attaché au gouvernement de S. M. B.; Le sieur linctot croit luymeme revenu mais le consul luy a de nouvau tourné la tete avec une promesse de brevet de capitaine, il a reçu un brevet de major et intendant des sauvages de la part du conseil de virginie avec l'espoir d'être paye en arjent qu'ils n'ont pas. Le sr s* germain a débarqué l'hyver dernier a charles town venant de france avec une comision pour attirer les sauvages dans les interests de cette couronne, je le crois aussi canadien et l'ay empêche de trouver du crédit en virginnie en employant sous mains des royalistes, heureuse- ment les moyens employés sont les moins propres pour reusir, les sujets employés étant incapables mais ils doivent nous convaincre, monsieur, de la nécessité d'elogner de votre gouvernement une relation étrangère qui pouroit luy devenir plus funeste, necesité que je n'ay cessé deux ans avant ma prise de représenter innutilement. Le sr benteley est aussi passé a williamsbourg pour gagner les illinois d'où je l'avois envoyé en canada pour ses pratiques et relations [Translation.] so-called governor of Virginia. In spite of ail this they (the Indians) promised me, the night before their departure, to be faithful to the government of His British Majesty. M. Linctot himself thought of changing, but the consul again turned his head with a promise of a captain's commission. He received a commission of major and in- tendant of the Indians from the council of Virginia with the hope of being paid with money, they do not have. M. St. Germain landed last winter at Charleston. He came from France with a commission to draw the Indians into the interests of that crown. I believe that he is also a Canadian, and I prevented him from finding any crédit in Virginia by employing, secretly, some of the royal- ists. Fortunately the means used by M. St. Germain are the least likely to succeed, since the persons employed are incapable; but they should convince you, sir, of the necessity of eliminating from your government a correspondence with aliens which may become more detrimental to it; a necessity which I did not cease to represent, though uselessly, two years before my capture. Mr. Bentley also passed through Williamsburg on his way to Illinois, from where I had sent him into Canada on account of his intrigues and
Page 179
ROCHEBLAVE TO HALDIMAND, SEPTEMBER 9, 1780 179 avec les rebelles, c'est sa cabale et cette des espagnols qui les ont conduit sur le misisippi et qui en intimidant les habitants les ont empêché de prendre les armes ce dont ils sont bien fâchés aujourdhuy. Si votre excellence daigne se faire représenter mes letres a son predeceseur, elle verra avec quel zèle j'ay travaille, combien de fois j'ay demandé d'être remplacé par une personne plus accréditée ches le général, que j'ay innutilement demandé permission de lever vint hommes avec lesquels j'eus intimidé les agents rebelles et empêché les habitants bien intentionés de consentir a une neutralité dont ils se repentent trop tard; elle verra avec surprise que j'ay donné connoisance des mancevures des françois quinze mois avant qu'ils e'clatent et que j'ay démasqué et aprécié a sa juste valeur la frauduleuse neutralité de l'espagne, mais ce qui aura lieu de la surprendre, c'est que quoyque les choses se fussent passé presque sous mes yeux, il a fallu l'événement pour détromper. Mr hamilton lieutenant gouverneur du détroit continu d'être rigour- eusement retenu et gardé dans un donjeon, il a été l'année dernière trois mois aux fers confondu avec des scélérats, on a envoyé il y a un mois et [Translation.] relations with the rebels. It is his cabal and that of the Spaniards that led the Americans to the Mississippi and, by intimidation, prevented the inhabitants from taking arms, a thing for which they are very sorry now. If your Excellency deigns to look over the letters I sent to your predecessor, you will see with what zeal I worked, how many times I asked to be replaced by a person better accredited to the gênerai; that I asked, without success, permission to raise twenty men with whom I might have intimidated the agents of the rebels and prevented the well-meaning inhabitants from consenting to a neutrality of which they repent too late. Your Excellency will see with surprise that I gave warning of the opérations of the French fifteen months before they came to light; and that I unmasked and judged at its true value the fraud- ulent neutrality of Spain; but that which will give you occasion for surprise is that, although the things took place almost under my very eyes, still the event was necessary in order to undeceive those in authority. Mr. Hamilton, lieutenant governor of Détroit, is still rigourously detained and locked in a dungeon. Last year he was in irons for three months, in the company of rogues. A month and a half ago an American
Page 180
180 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS demi un colonel sur sa parole et demandé qu'il put venir icy sur la siene, mais je ne crois pas qu'on luy accorde. Je prends la liberté de me recomander aux bontés de votre excellence et de luy rapeller que j'ay été totallement pillié de tout par les rebelles ainsi que la famille du major hugues lord du 18e regiment, ma famille et la sienne qu'il avoit laissé a mes soins ont été privées du dernier mor- ceau de pain par une bande de brigants, j'espere que les rebelles don- eront quelque chose a leur situation et qu'ils demanderont la paix, mais en cela ils consulteront plus leur situation présente q'un scincere repentir, si ce que je n'ose croire le gouvernement abbandonoit mal- heureusement ceux qui luy sont attachés, il seroit a son tour abbandonné de tout le monde dans une autre occurence que le fanatisme des pro- vinces du nord fairra bientost eclare. J'ay l'honneur d'etre avec la plus respectueuse consideration de votre excellence. Monsieur, Le très humble et très obéissant serviteur rocheblave, com* aux illinois. new yorc le 9. 7bre 1780. [Translation.] colonel on parole was sent and the Virginia government was asked that he (Mr. Hamilton) might come here on his parole; but I do not believe that it will be granted to him. I take the liberty to recommend myself to the favors of your Ex- cellency and to remind you that I have been totally plundered by the rebels of all I had as was also the family of Major Hugh Lord of the 18th regiment. My family and his, which he had left in my care, were deprived of the last piece of bread by a band of brigands. I hope that the rebels will give some heed to their situation and that they will ask for peace; but in that they will consult rather their present situation than a sincere repentence. If the government should unfortunately abandon those who are attached to it — a thing I hardly think probable — the government, in turn, would be abandoned by everybody in an- other occurrence which the fanaticism of the northern provinces will cause ere long to break forth. I have the honor to be, with the most respcctful consideration, your Excellency's very humble and very obedient servant, Rocheblave, Commandant at Illinois. New York, Sept. 9, 1780.
Page 181
DE LA BALME'S ADDRESS, SEPTEMBER 17, 1780 181 [Endorsed:] N. Yorck. 80. de Rocheblave. du 9. Sept. par Mr Schiffeling. [Addressed:] On His Majesty's Service. Frederick Haldimand esq' Lieutenant General Governor and Commander in Chief of the Province of Québec, Vice-admiral of the same &c. &c. &c. Québec. per Ll Schiffelin. [Translation.] [Endorsed:] N. York. 80 of Rocheblave. of Sept. 9th. by Mr. Schiffelin. Address of Colonel de la Balme, Sept. 17, 1780. [B. M., 21844, f- 284.—Copy(?)] Addresse aux Français Etablis sur les rives du Mississipi par Monsieur Mottin De la Balme Colonel français et pensionnaire du Roy du France. Messieurs et cher Compatriotes, Quand Je ne serais pas sujets et officiers français quand le Roy de France mon digne maitre ne me tiendroit pas compte de mes desmarches en votre faveur, chose que je suis loin de panser, quand vous ne m'auriez pas, demandés mon advis concernant L'état déplorable ou vous êtes réduits, L'acueil gracieux que vous me faites, La reconnois- [Translation.] Address to the French settled on the banks of the Mississippi, by M. Mottin De la Balme, French colonel and pensioner of the King of France. Gentlemen and Dear Fellow-countrymen: Even were I not a subject and officer of France, even though the King of France, my worthy master, should not be grateful to me for the steps I am taking in your favor, a thing I am far from thinking; even if you had not asked me for my advice concerning the déplorable con- dition to which you are reduced, still the courteous honor which you do -T--
Page 182
i8a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS sjuu'r que je dois a vos procedés joint a l'attachement que J'ay pour des Compatriotes chez lesquels Je trouve les mêmes Sentiment qui m'ani- ment, Exigent que Je saisisse avec un vif Empressement les occasions ou Je seray assez heureux pour Ixnirs etre de quelque utilité. C'est a ce titre et a d'autres non moin Légitime que j'ose vous pre- santer cet Ecrit, dépôs de mes sentiments afectueux enver vous, Mes- sieurs, si les observations qu'il renferme vous parroissent denuées de principes raisonnables, si mes notions vous semblent étayées sur une baze suspecte et depourvu de la verité, qui peut vous les faire acceuillir, veuillez au moin ne pas blâmer mon zelle et condamner mon cœur. Les erreurs de mon Esprit qu'il désavoue ne scauroient vous dis- pansser d'user dindulgence envers lui; et cest surquoi je compte avec confiance. Il est bon que vous sachiez, messieurs, que les troupes de l'état de virginie sont venues icy contre le grés des autres Etats de lamérique, ainsi que je lay appris par les membres du Congrés même avant mon Départ de philadelphie, et que les différentes députés que le composent [Translation.] me, the gratitude I owe you for your proceedings, joined to the attach- ment which I have for fellow-countrymen in whom I find the same sentiments which inspire me, all these facts require that I eagerly take advantage of the occasion, in which I may be happy enough to be of some use to you. It is in virtue of this title, and of others no less worthy, that I dare to present to you this writing, an evidence of my affectionate senti- ments towards you, gentlemen. If the observations which it contains seem to you destitute of reasonable principles, if my notions seem to you to be resting on a suspicious basis and lacking in that truth, which can cause you to accept them, at least I trust you will not blame my zeal and condemn my heart. The errors of my intelligence, which it itself disowns, makes it im- possible for me to dispense with your indulgence; and on this I am counting with confidence. It is well that you be informed, gentlemen, that the troops of the State of Virginia have come here against the will of the other states of America, as I learned from the members of Congress, even before my departure from Philadelphia, and that the different deputies who com-
Page 183
DE LA BALME'S ADDRESS, SEFTEMBER 17, 1780 183 ignorent les procedes revoltants Et les violances non seulement blâmables mais condamnable aux tribuneaux du monde entier, que ces troupes exerssent envers vous. Une monoyes sans valeurs qui vous est données en échangent des Bestiaux et des danrées que vous vous procures a la sueur de vos fronts vous menasse d'une ruine prochaine, car il est aissez de présumer san grand effort desprit (indépendemment des ravages de la guerre uni- quement occasionnées par larrivées des virginiens chez vous) que lorsqu'on donne toujour et qu'on ne reçois rien les moiens les plus con- ciderables diminuant sensiblement chaques jours doivent nécessairement s'anéantir en peu de tems. Consséquemment il est très important pour vous, messieurs, rela- tivement aux circonstances presantes, que sans perdre de tems vous cherchiez a Faire retirer par l'état de Virginie en vous addressant au ministre de France, et au Congrès, le papier monoye, les lettres d'- échange, les autres titres que vous avez entre les mains, et soliciter pour le rapel de chez vous des troupes qui vous molestent contre tout droit, [Translation.] pose the said Congress are ignorant of the revolting proceedings and acts of violence, not only to be blamed but to be condemned before the tribunals of the whole world, which these troops are practicing against you. A valueless money which is given to you in exchange for your cattle and your provisions which you procure for yourself by the sweat of your brow, threatens you with a speedy ruin, for it is easy to suppose without any great effort of the intellect (independently of the ravages of the war, occasioned solely by the arrivai of the Virginians in your country) that, when one gives out all the time and receives nothing, property, even the most considerable, diminishes obviously every day and must of necessity be reduced to nothing in a short time. Consequently it is very important for you, gentlemen, in consider- ation of the present circumstances, that without losing any time you try to compel the State of Virginia, by addressing yourselves to the min- ister of France and to Congress, to redeem the paper money, letters of exchange, and other claims which you have in your hands. And you must solicit for the recall from your country of the troops which annoy you against all right, since you are espousing the cause of the King of
Page 184
184 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS puisque vous épousez la cause du Roy de France et de ses alliez, troupes qui loin de vous preserver des fureurs d un Ennemis cruel, vous rend les victimes d'une guerre que des indiens; constament amis des Français, ne vous ussent jamais fait sans elles. La Justice qui caractérise les actions du Roy de France, votre ancien et généreux monarque, vous offre une protection assurées et irevocable, reclamés ses bontées avec confiance, J'ose vous assurer que non seule- ment, ce magnanime potantat ne soufrira pas que des alliez pour lesquels il fait de très grands sacrifices, vous oppriments en aucune manière, Mais qu'il vous secourrat de tout son pouvoir ainsy que vos parents du Detroit et du canada instruit de votre fâcheuse situation l'honorable Congrès n'en fera pas moins, vous devez en être persuadés. Les Virginiens ne sont pas le seul fléau que vous accable, messieurs; De leurs cotés les Barbares Anglais qui donnent abbondament des Etofes des munitions de guerre et qui répandent avec profusion les Liqueurs Brûlantes (dieu tutelaire des indiens) pour vous faire égorger par eux les uns après les autres, ne vous permet pas denvisager avec indifference l'etat critique ou vous etes reduit. [Translation.] France and of his allies; troops, which far from preserving you from the fury of a cruel enemy, make you the victims of a war with the In- dians, ever the friends of the French, which they never would have made, had it not been for the troops. The justice which characterizes the King of France, your former and generous monarch, offers to you a protection, sure and irrevocable. Implore his favors with confidence, for I can assure you that not only that magnanimous potentate will not suffer his allies, for whom he is making very great sacrifices, to oppress you in any manner, but also he will succor you, as far as he is able, and also your kinsmen in Detroit and in Canada, when once informed of your wretched situation, the honourable Congress will do no less, you can be sure of that. The Virginians are not the only scourge which afflicts you, gentle- men. On their side the English barbarians are giving abundantly of goods, of munitions of war, and are scattering with profusion burning liquors (the guardian God of the Indians) in order to have your throats, one after the other, eut; this does not permit you to look with indiffer- ence at the critical condition to which you are reduced
Page 185
DE LA BALME'S ADDRESS, SEPTEMBER 17, 1780 185 Cependant avec un peu de Résolution, messieurs, vous pourriez prendre un parti qui vous metteroit a couvert des dangers que vous courrés sans cela voyons commant. A la guerre il est généralement reconnu que les troupes qui agissent offencivement, ont un très grand avantage sur celles qui sont sur la deffensive, parceque indépendament des surprises, les premières atta- quent dans l'instant le plus favorable, et dans les endroits ou on leurs oppose le moin de Résistance. Vous êtes dans le Cas des seconds, messieurs, vos Ennemis peuvent venir en Renauds vous arceler quand il leur plaira, et vous miner peu a peu, jusqu'à ce que vous sucombiez sous ses Efforts rendivez. Pourquoi, si cela dépend de vous, ne feriez vous pas une Guerre offencive, avant que vous n'en soyes pas en état? Pourquoi ne métriez vous pas a couver de l'ennemis vos femmes vos enfants, votre personne, vos biens, et vos animaux? Trouveroient-ont beaucoup d'habitant parmi vous qui fussent assez irésonnables pour se refuser aux médiocre sacrifices qu'exigerait un tel projet? Y auroit-il beaucoup de jeunes français, qui ne voulussent pas [Translation.] However, with a little resolution, gentlemen, you would be able to accomplish that which would put you under cover from the dangers which you run without it: let us see how. In war it is generally recognized that troops which are on the offen- sive have a great advantage over those on the défensive, because, aside from surprises, the former attack at the most favorable moment and in the place where they find the least résistance. You are in the position of the latter, gentlemen. Your enemies can come prowling around and harass you whenever it shall please them, and weaken you little by little, until you succumb under their renewed efforts. Why, if this dépends on you, should you not make an offensive war before it is too late for you to do so? Why should you not put under cover from the enemy your wives, your children, your own selves, your possessions, and your cattle? Could one find many inhabitants among you who would be so un- reasonable as to refuse to suffer the small sacrifices which such a project would require? Would there be many young Frenchmen who would
Page 186
i86 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS deffandre courageusement leurs pères et mères, leurs frères et soeur? Non, je ne puis je ne saurais le penser. Les Premiers verroient bientôt qu'ils ne pourroient achepter la Paix et la tranquilité trop cher; Les Seconds sentiroient que la honte est mille fois plus insuportable que la Peine et les dangers qu'ils pourroient courir ne seroients grands. Afin qu'on exagère rien, je vais sucssintement entrer dans quelques détails concernant cette expédition future tant pour l'ordre de la marche, le nombres des troupes, que pour les Provisions. Pour agir avec prudance et succès il faudrait se rendre au ouyas le Dixième Jour doctobre afin d'aller surprendre ou Bloquer les Anglais au Détroit dans l'ordre espliqués si après 400 cents français munis chacun de cent cartouche et des vivres pour 40 jours 800 cents Indiens choisis ausquels on distribueroit a chacun douze cartouches en sorte qu'il en restcroit encore autant pour distribuer a un pareil nombre en cas qu'il en fut besoin, une tante pour mettre les armes et les munitions a couvert en tems de pluyes, huit chaudières et huit chevaux pour porter les ustenciles, et quelques provisions aux indiens. [Translation.] not be willing to défend courageously their fathers and mothers, their brothers and sisters? No, I cannot, I could not possibly think so. The first will see soon that they will not be able to buy peace and tran- quillity too dearly; the second will feel that shame is a thousand times more unbearable than suffering; and the dangers which they may run will not be great. In order that nothing be exaggerated, I will briefly enter into some détails concerning this future expédition, not only about the order of march, the number of troops, but also about provisions. In order to act with prudence and success it would be necessary to reach the Ouiatanons on the tenth day of October, so as to surprise or to block the English at Détroit in the order explained herewith: four hundred Frenchmen supplied with one hundred rounds of ammunition apiece and supplies for forty days, eight hundred chosen Indians to whom there would be distributed twelve rounds of ammunition apiece so that there would remain still as many rounds to be distributed to an equal number in case of need; a tent in order to put the arms and muni- tions under cover in time of rain; eight large kettles and eight horses to carry the utensils and some provisions for the Indians.
Page 187
DE LA BALME'S ADDRESS, SEPTEMBER 17, 1780 187 De plus les habitants du Poste de Vincenne qui porteroient du maïs et du tabac au rendez vous aux ouyas pour donner aux Nations afidées aux français auroient besoin en retour de cent livres de Plomb, car ils n'ont que la Poudre. Maintenant, comme on serois plus assurés des Indiens si on pou- vois leurs faire quelques Présants qu' on ne Let maigre les promesses qu'ils m'ont fait de me suivre partout j'irois en guerre, il seroit essentiel ou tout au moins utile de composer une somme d'environ trois mille livre qu'on emploirois a achepter des marchandises qui arrivent de la Nouvelle Orléans sur le Bateau qui avoit ete Expédie de S' Louis et qui doit arriver a sa destination incessament. Je ne scay si je m'abuses, messieurs, mais j'ay l'honneur de vous avouer que je serois étrangement surpris a en juger par les dispositions de la plus grande parties des français que j'ay eu le plaisir de voir et d'entendre, cy on se refusois dans une semblable circonstance a une ex- pédition qui peut sauver la vie et les biens de beaucoup d'habitants qui peut concourir a l'expultion d'une troupe qui vous moleste; qui vous feroit beaucoup d'honneur, qui delivreroit d'une afreuse et insuportable [Translation.] Moreover the inhabitants of Post Vincennes who are to take corn and tobacco to the place of meeting at the Ouiatanons in order to give it to the nations allied to the French, would need in exchange one hundred pounds of lead, for they have nothing but powder. Now as we should be more confident of the Indians than we are now, [?] in spite of the promises they have made to follow me wher- ever I should go in war, if we could make them more présents, it might be essential or at least wise to make a collection of some three thousand livres which would be used in buying some merchandise which is about to arrive from New Orléans on a boat that has been sent from St. Louis and is to arrive at its destination shortly. I do not know whether I am mistaken, gentlemen, but I have the honour to avow to you that I would be very much surprised, judging from the inclination of the greater part of the French whom I have had the pleasure to see and to hear, if you refused, in such a circumstance as this, to make an expédition which can save the lives and possessions of many inhabitants; which can contribute to the expulsions of troops which annoy you; which would do you great honour; and which
Page 188
188 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS captivité des amis, des parents et des frères; qui désobstruerait votre commerce; qui vous attacheroit tous les indiens singulièrement disposé pour vous et que vous avez le plus grand interests de ménager; qui vous procureroit beaucoup de marchandises dont vous été entièrement dépourvu, marchandises repartie dans différents Postes qu'on enleveroit aisement aux Anglais; qui vous vaudrait la confiance et un appuit de l'honorable Congrès, qui convaincrait enfin le Roy de France du vif intérêt que vous prenez a une cause pour laquelle il a deja fait des grand sacrifices, et qui vous procureroit de sa part en peu de tems tous les secours imaginables. Voila ce que mon attachement a vous, messieurs, ma dictes, si mon zelle et le bon exemple que je me propose de donner dans cette Expé- dition en Cas qu'elle ait lieu vous agrées, je suis prêt a Employer mes facultés corporelles Intelectuelle, Je suis prêt a répandre mon sang en votre faveur, vous n'avez qu'un mot a dire pour cela, dans cet Espoir j'ay l'honneur de vous presenter mes tendres affections comme une gage de l'inviolable parole que je vous donne icy de cœur et Dame. [Translation.] would deliver, from an atrocious and unbearable captivity, friends, relatives, and brothers; which would free your commerce; which would draw to you all the Indians, particularly well disposed towards you and in whose management you are greatly interested; which would furnish you with much merchandise, of which you are in want, merchandise scattered throughout the different posts, which one would take away from the English with ease; an expedition, which would gain for you the confidence and support of the honourable Congress; which, in short, would convince the King of France of the keen interest that you take in a cause for which he has already made great sacrifices, and which would procure in a short time for you all the succor imagin- able from his bounty. Here is, gentlemen, what my love for you has dictated to me. If my zeal and the good example which I propose to give in this expedition, if it takes place, please you, then I am ready to employ my bodily and intellectual faculties; I am ready to shed my blood in your behalf. You have but to say a word for that. It is in this hope that I have the honor to present to you my tender affections as a pledge of the sacred word which I give you here from my heart and soul.
Page 189
INHABITANTS TO DE LA BALME, SEPTEMBER 29, 1780 189 A S* Louis le i7me 7bre 1780. [Endorsed:] Addressè aux Francois établi sur les Rives du Missisippi par Monsr Mottin de la Balme, Colonel Francois et Pensionaire du Roi de France, &c. a S' Louis le i7me Septe 1780. Reçu a Quebec le 4me de Decr 1780 [Translation.] At St. Louis, Sept. 17, 1780. [Endorsed:] Addressed to the French settled on the banks of the Mis- sissippi, by M. Mottin de la Balme, French Colonel and pensioner of the King of France, etc. At St. Louis, Sept. 17, 1780. Received at Quebec the fourth of December, 1780. Inhabitants of Kaskaskia to De la Balme September 29, 1780 [M. C. T. MSS.—Attested Copy.] Addresse des habitants des KasKasKias A Monsieur Mottin de la Balme Colonel français, et Pensionnaire du Roy de france, ancien Inspecteur General de La Cavalery des Etats unis De La Merique &c. &c. &c Monsieur, Témoins du Zel qui Vous anime En faveur des Infortunées français qui habitent Ses Contrées, joint aux peu d'éxperience que nous avons, nous engage a Reclamer Votre protection, nous Vous prions Instament [Translation.] Address of the inhabitants of Kaskaskia.1 To M. Mottin de la Balme, French Colonel, and Pensioner of the King of France, former Inspector General of the Cavalry of the United States of America, etc, etc,. Sis: As witnesses of the zeal which animates you in favor of the unfor- tunate French who inhabit these regions, joined to the little experience we have, we are induced to ask for your protection. We urgently be1 At the time I was writing the Introduction to III. Hist. Collections, iiM this address to De la Balme was misplaced among my papers, so that on p. xciv., n. a, I stated that no address from Kaskaskia had been preserved. Unfortunately, it does not prove to be as valuable as I had hoped, and as a record of events is not to be compared to the memorial of the Cahokians printed in the above volume ii., p. 535, or that of the people 01 Vincennes, a copy of which is in the Menard Collection, T. MSS.
Page 190
IQO ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS de Vouloir pretter une oreille attentive au ces justes Representations, d'un peuple qui Gemy depuis Longtemps Sous La tirannye; L'orsqu'il devroient estre Libres. Depuis L'arrivées des Virginiens aux illinois et Les promesses qu'ils nous ont faits de jouir paisséblement Des droits attachés aux Etats unis de La Merique Promesses que nous Voyons aujourd'huy n'estre autres choses que des fictions, desquels jusqua Ce jour nous avons Eté Dupés; Nous avons Eté Constament malheureux. Nous aurons L'honneur de Vous prevenir et De Vous assurer Mon- sieur que nos Coeurs et nos Sentiments Sont français, et que nous ne degenerons jamais de Cette qualité Estimable a nos Yeux; Cependant Les Virginiens qui Se Sont Introduit chez nous aux aux [sic] nom de La france Et des Etats unis alliez de cette Puissance nont cherchez que notre perte Soit dans La Guerre qu'ils nous ont alliées de La part des Indiens amis des francais même Soit En levant de Vive forces nos sub- sistances, aux prejudices de nos familles qui En manquent, Soit Enfin par d'injustes Exactions dont Le Detail Seroit trop long, Et même Dé- placee a Vous faire En cette Ecrit; En Effets Monsieur n'est ce pas [Translation.] seech you to lend an attentive ear to these just supplication of a people who have been groaning for a long time under tyranny, when they ought to be free. We have been constantly wretched, ever since the arrivai at Illinois of the Virginians with the promises they made us that we should peace- ably enjoy the rights belonging to the United States of America,— promises which, we now see, were nothing more than fiction, by which we have been to this very day duped. We have the honor to inform you and to assure you, sir, that our hearts and our sentiments are French, and that we shall never degenerate in respect to this quality so estimable in our eyes. Nevertheless, the Virginians, who introduced themselves into our country in the name of France and the United States, allied to the former power, have sought nothing but our destruction, either in war, which they instigated on the part of the Indians — the friends of the French — or in stealing by main force our sustenance, to the detriment of our families who lack because of it, or finally by unjust exactions, the detail of which would be too long to make you and even out of place in this writing. In truth, sir, is
Page 191
INHABITANTS TO DE LA BALME, SEPTEMBER 29, 1780 101 violer Les traités sacrés qu'ils ont fait avec Le Roy De france, Notre ancien monarque, que de molester contre touts Droits d'ancien Sujets, toujours prets a Se joindre a Ces Drapeaux, et a Ceux de Ses allies que de ruiner sans resource des Colons, aux moment ou ils Connvencoient a Sortir de La miserre Insuparable Des Nouveaux Etablisements, En detruisant Les habitations tuant a Coup de mousquet Les animaux domestiques Dont ils ne Sauroient Se passer, Et en introduisant une Monoye Sans Valeur qu'ils Refusent eux même Et qui Reduit Le Numeraire absolument a Rien En Sorte qu'il nous Est phisiquement Impossible de nous procurer des Secours quelconques, En saisisant En enLevant, a force ouverte, Les Marchandises des malheureux habitants; En Soutenants des familles Etrangerres qui ne Vivent journellement que de Rapine Et en nous Menassant de nous fusilliers En Cas de resistance Envers des ordres dictées par L'injustice, et la Rapacité De Ceux qui Ozent Les donner. Voila Jucsesstement,1 [successivement] Monsieur Le tableau des meaux qu'endurent d'infortunées habitants qui Se jettent dans Vos bras avec une entierre Confiance que Reclame La justice de Leurs [Translation.] it not violating the sacred treaties which they have made with the king of France, our former monarch, to molest, against all rights, former sub- jects who are always ready to join under his flag and that of his allies? Is it not a violation to ruin irretrievably some of these colonists at the very moment when they are beginning to come out of the unbearable poverty of new settlements, by destroying the homes, killing with their muskets the domestic animals which the inhabitants can ill afford to lose, and by introducing a valueless money which they themselves refuse and which reduces the currency to absolutely nothing, so that it is physically impossible for us to get any kind of help whatever, and furthermore by seizing, by stealing by open force, the merchandise of the unfortunate inhabitants, by maintaining alien families who live daily only by means of robbery, and by threatening to shoot us, in case we make resistance to orders dictated by the injustice and the greed of those who dare to give them. Here is in order, sir, the picture of the oppressions endured by the unfortunate settlers, who throw themselves into your arms with the 1 The word "fustement" was written first and then an attempt was made to change it.
Page 192
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS anciens Souverains, et Celle de L'honnorable Congrés; imploré en notre faveur Monsieur, que Le zelle pur infatiquable et Sans borne qui Semble Vous animer, Envers Les Malheureux français de Ces Con- trés desolé Vous porte a nous tirer de L'oppression Sous Laquelle nous Gemissons. Vous Connoissez notre infortune, et La Justice de notre Causse, agisez En notre nom, Ce que Vous ferais est d'avance approuvé de Nos Concitoyens, Nous Vous Revetons De tous Les droits neCessaire En concequance; Enfin Nous Vous Reconnaissons unanimement Pour notre protecteur Et Notre Suprême Chef, En attendant Le Succés que nous avons Lieu D'esperer de vos demarches. Nous avons L'Honneur D'estre avec une Respectueusse affection et un Inviolable attachement Monsieur Vos tres humbles et tres affectionés Serviteurs Deliberé aux KasKasKias Le 2ome 7bre 1780. [Translation.] entire confidence called for by the justice of their former sovereign and that of the honorable Congress. Implore in our name, sir, and may that genuine, untiring, and boundless zeal, which seems to animate you for the unfortunate French of these desolate regions, cause you to suc- ceed in drawing us out of this oppression under which we groan. You know our misfortune and the justice of our cause. Act in our name, and whatever you do is approved in advance by our fellow-citizens; we invest you with all the rights necessary thereto. In short we recog- nize you unanimously as our protector and our supreme chief. While waiting for the success which we have reason to hope from your efforts, we have the honor to be, with a respectful esteem and an un- changeable attachment, sir, Your very humble and very devoted servants Resolved, at Kaskaskia, Sept. 29th. 1780.
Page 193
GOODS FURNISHED DE LA BALME, OCTOBER 2, 1780 193 Statement of Goods Furnished De la Balme, October 2, 1780 [M. C, T. MSS.— D. S.] Etat De fourniture quon luy Les habitants des KasKasKia pour L'expédition De Monsieur Le Colonelle de la Balme SCavoire Mes™ pelterie paux de chevreuil joseph Braso un chevalle 25011 au Même 3 De poudre a 15 45" un pot taffia au sauvage 20" Jean Bat. Ste Jemme Bauvay un Chevalle Lui Servans de Monture 30011 hui livres de poudre 120" 100 1 farine de farine [sic] En bisqué 35" Un voiage De Charette au Kaokia pour Mener Les Effec de l'expedision Distansse Des Kas de vinte deux Lieux 6011 Un Bary Cerclée de ferre fourny aux outitaia NaSion yndiene du oua- bache 20" 535 Mr. Nicolas La Chanse 100" De balle a 25 125" 4 M de poudre donee a son fils Est a Jaison [?] a 15" 60" [Translation.] Statement of the goods furnished by the inhabitants of Kaskaskia for the expédition of Colonel de la Balme. To wit [Reckoned in] furs, deerskins livres sols. MM. Joseph Braso, a horse 250 To the same 3 of powder at 15 45 A jug of tafia to an Indian 20 Jean Baptiste St Gemme Bauvais A horse serving him as mount 300 Eight pounds of powder 120 100 pounds of flour for biscuit 35 A wagon-trip to Cahokia to take the goods of the expédition, a distance of 22 leagues from Kaskaskia 60 A barrel hooped with iron, furnished to the Ouiatanons, an Indian nation of the VVabash 20 535 M. Nicolas Lachanse 100 pounds of shot at 25 125 Four pounds of powder given to his son and to Jason at 15 livres 60

This page contains an image.
Page 194
i94 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 5 blle audevie au ontoine a 10" 50" une Chaudierre Couverte au ontaya 30 H 40 De besquy 17 " 10s 282 "10S. Suite De Lautre part En pelterie paux de Chevreuil 1132 " 10S. Mrs. NiColas janisse 6" Est J de poudre a 15 100' 140" farine En bisqui 47 "10S. 147 "10S. josepht Du plasy Un Chevalle Sellée Est brida 250 » 10" De poudre a 15 » 15°" 60" de bisqui 20" 420" Expédition totalle 1700" pelterie Je Certifie que Le présent Compte a de l'autre Est véritable d on j'ay Plaine Connoissance Duplasi KasKasKiasle 2me 8bre 1780 [Translation.] Five bottles of brandy to Antoine at 10 livres 50 A kettle with cover to Antaya 30 Forty pounds of biscuit 17 10 282 10 Brought over from the other side in furs, deerskins 1132 10 M. Nicolas Janis 6| pounds of powder at 15 100 140 pounds of flour for biscuit 47 10 147 10 M. Joseph Duplasy A horse, saddle, and bridle 25° Ten pounds of powder at 15 livres 150 60 pounds of biscuit 20 420 Total for the expédition 1700 livres in peltries. I certify that this account and that on the other page is true, of which I hâve full knowledge. Duplasy. Kaskaskia, October 2, 1780.
Page 195
WINSTON TO TODD, OCTOBER 17, 1780 195 Richard Winston to John Todd, October 17, 17801 [Draper MSS., 50J69. — A. L. S.] Sir, Cascakia 14th Octr 1780 Yours by Mr Lindsay was the last I have the Honor of Receiving since which no favourable opportunity has offered wherewith you could expect to hear from me until Mr. William Gelaspie's departure by whom I wrote you as fully as I could concerning this Country and in Particular all that regarded your Department; all which I must think you have forseen before you went off, the disagreeableness of which every thinking man would avoid and of which I now send you duplicate together with some additions since that time. The State of the Illinois is far from be- ing in so easy a way as might have been expected from the Declaration of the Gen1 Assembly had their Officers a little Oeconomy, concerning which the Magistrates did remonstrate, which remonstrance was treated as insolence and Impertinence, for having dared to remonstrate against their ruinous proceedings. I wish all may be looked into in the hopes of which all is on Record. As to the Peltries you left with Col1 Mont- gomerie & me they [were] taken out of my hands and I am left be- hindhand for fifteen Packs.2 how I will or may be indemnified I know not Col° Montgomerie says that his Estate is sufficient to pay a great deal more. I wish it may be so. I was by force obliged to give up as I could not contend with Bayonetts for a thing that is not my own. I refer you to Mr Lindsay concerning the goods purchased by him at New Orleans, they are now in the possession of him and the Illus- trious Cap. Dodge. I wish Governm* may get a satisfactory Acc* of them, yet I doubt it. this part of the World is too far from Government to call people to acco1 before it is too late, there is great strides taken for to make Money at any rate. As to our Civil department it is in but an indifferent way ever [since] the Military have refused us their Prison for which we off[ered to] Pay very handsomely and since which they stretch greatly [to bring] the Country under the Military Rod, and throw off the Civil authority so fond they are to be meddling with what is not within their Power, there is strange things carried on in this place. Col. Montgomerie is gone from here with Brookes & family Thank God. Cap" Brasheares is married to Brookes's daughter Con- sequently has Quit the Service and gone with the rest. Col° Mont'This is printed in Va. Slate Papers, i, 380 and Chicago Hist. Society Collections, iv, 338. 3 For Montgomery's statement concerning these peltries, see ante, p. 128, 149.
Page 196
196 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS gomerie on the day before his departure did endeavour to settle the Peltrie fund with in which he failed, and besides the Draughts by him drawn on me and by me Accepted, to the am* of fifteen packs he has fallen short eleven Packs, and what the rest has been expended in is to be looked into by higher powers, there is no accts receipts only for so many packs without saying for why or for what. Such is the proceeding of Col. Montgomerie, who left this 19th Inst, and carried with him large quantities of Provisions, Boats deeply loaden besides five Black slaves for all which the Publick fund has suffered. Since the arrival of this Capn Bentley there has been nothing but discord & disunion in the place, he has left no stone unturned to extinguish the Laws of the State and to revive the Heathen Law being well accustomed to Bribes & entertainments. Government Ought to regulate the Trade as there is many abuses committed under Military sanctions. There passed this way a Frenchman called himself Col1 de la Balme, he says in the American Service. I look upon him to be a Mai Content much dis- gusted with the Virginian yet I must say he done some good, he Pacified the Indians, he was received by the Inhabitants as the Hebrews would receive the Messiah, was conducted from the Post here by a large detach- ment of the Inhabitants as well as different Tribes of Indians he went from here against Detroit, be well assured that the Indians were on his side, got at this place & the Kahos about fifty Volunteers, are to Ren- dezvous at Ouia. Cap" Duplaisie from here went along with him to go Philadelphia, there to lay before the French Embassador all the Grieviances labours under by the Virginians which is to be strongly backed by M. de la Balme. 'tis the general opinion that he will take Baubin the great Partizan at Miamis and from thence to Fort Pitt, this is all that I can say only that he passed about one Month here with- out seeing Colo. Montgomerie nor did Montgomerie see him. It being so long a time since we had any news from you we concluded therefrom that Government has given us up to do for ourselves the best we can until such time as it pleases some other state or Power, to take us under their protection, a few lines from you woul[d] give some of us great satisfaction yet the generality of the People are of the opinion that this Country will be given up to France be that as it will a few lines from you [will] add much to the happiness of Dear Sir Yr. Ml HbIe Rich"* Winston.
Page 197
MONTGOMERY TO WEBB, APRIL 23, 1782 197 Richard Winston to Officer Commanding at Louisville, October 24,1780. [Draper MSS., 50J71. — A. L. S.] Kaskaskias 24th Octo. 1780 Dear Sir, As the Gentlemen to whom the Letters Sent herewith may not be at Louisville I therefore make bold to Trouble you, and pray's you forward them to Their address, as Soon as possible as the Bearer goes no farther than your Post, Lett me request [MS. imperfect] Kindly and to Lett him have any Little thing he might Stand in need of for his return on ace1 of the Commonwealth. For new's we have none, Colo1 Montgomery is gone home by way of Orleans, all the Troops are gone to Fort Jefferson Except Cap- tain Rogers's Troop of Light Dragoons that are at Fort Clark waiting for further Ord" having nothing more to add Concludes with Best wishes for You and all the good people of Louisville and am Dr Sir Your Very Humle & Obed' Serv* Rich4 Winston Captn Brashears is Maried to Brokes's Daughter and the whole tribe are gone with Montgomery. [Addressed:] The Commanding officer att Louisville. Falls of Ohio John Montgomery to George Webb, April 23, 1782 [Va. State Lib. — A. L. S.] Richmond, April 23, 1782 Sir, Agreeable to your Request I have over looket my recets and find onlay two Recepts for Bills of Exchange drawn on Mr. Olliver polick' the one in favour of Mr. Lefang the first to the amount of three thousand five hundred dollars and there Apears to be yet two other Bills drawn on the treasury of Virginia for This the one in favour of Mr. perault in behalf of Oliver polick for which I Refer you to Capt John Dodges Bookes where you will see the amount of the Articles & the Use the were applied to the amount of Betwixt Eight and nine thousand Dollars at which time the trupes must Either Avacuated the Cuntrey and run 1 Oliver Pollock was agent for Virginia in New Orleans. Many of the bills contracted by Clark and his officers were paid by drafts on Pollock. III. Hist. Collections, ii., pp. xlix., Ixxv.
Page 198
198 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS the Risk of Starving on their gunney if I had not a maid that purchas, The other in favour of Mr. Molvost to the amount of upward of three thousand Dollars the Exct Sum I Cant Certify By the Reason I had the Misfortune to Loose the Acount By Being oversit in the Masecipi. the Reason of my giving the Bill in favour of Molvost I was ordered to go in an expedition to Opee' one hundred and forty Leagues By orders from General Clark where I was obliged to purchase Botes & pro- vision for three hundred and fifty men & could not Git them on Eny other tarms,2 you may think hard of the Bill Being so high But notwith- standing the Sum we were Constrained to eate our Horses on our Return after fasting five days. Which I did Cherfuley in behalf of my Cuntrey Had I made a forton in the time people mout had Reason to Suspected me But to the Con- treary I have spent one or at least my all But am in hopes to Be Eable to Live a poor and privet Life after wards, it is now almost fore years That I have not Receive one shilling from Goverment Not Withstanding I advanced Every Shilling I had & straned my Credit till it Became Shred Bear Rather than draw Bills on the State Still in hopes of som fund Being sent to seport the trupes But at Last was Compeld to it. I now ow two hundred pounds in the Illinois Which they have my obli- gation for for the seport of the trups that was Left under my Command, there will apear a Large number of Bills drawn Which Mentions so much money advanced me for the Recruiting Sarvis the Bounty for one hundred men at Seven hundred and fiftey dollors Each Agréable to an act of Asembley for which I hope will Be Honoured as the Men are now for during the War and Bills drawn for provisions I have sent you an abstract By Major Cri'.tington This I Certify to be a trew State of the mater And if aneything Else a pears it must Be a counterfit and I have the honour sir to Be your humble sarvt John Montgomery. [Addressed:] Honb. George Webb 1 Peoria. 2 Expedition to Rock River in 1780. III. Hist. Collections, ii., Ixxxviii.
Page 199
INHABITANTS TO LUZERNE 199 Inhabitants of Kaskaskia to Luzerne, no date. [M. C, T. MSS. — Attested Copy.] A Son Excellence Monseigneur Le Chevalier de la Luzerne am- basadeur pour Sa Majesté très Crethienne [sic] auprès des Etat unis &c. Monseigneur, La sensibilité que nous a témoignié, Monsieur Le Colonel La Balme a son Pasage dans cette colonie de la triste Situation ou nous nous trouvons Sous Le Gouvernement des Virginiens nous décida à Luy adresser un Ecrit ou nous Luy Expliquions En Bref Les meaux dont nous nous trouvions accablés, sur La promesse qu'il nous fit de s'interésser pour nous auprès du Congrés Géneral par Le Ministère de votre Excellence, afin d'obtenir Le Redressement des Griefs que nous Luy avons Expliqué. Notre pais Environnée de Barbares Et en partie nos Ennemis, par Les Revolutions de la Guère, Et animés par La Profusion des Presents qu'on leur Livre toutes jours ont mis un obstacle fatal au Projet de Monsieur La Balme party dicy avec un Certain nombre de français pour une Expedition quil projetait pour Le Detroit, plusieur de Ce [Translation.] To his Excellency, Monseigneur Chevalier de la Luzerne, Am- bassador for his most Christian Majesty to the United States, etc. Monseigneur: The sympathy for us, which Colonel de la Balme manifested, while passing through this colony, on account of the sad situation in which we find ourselves under the government of the Virginians, induced us to address to him a piece of writing in which we explained briefly the evils with which we were oppressed. We did this because of the promise which he made us to represent our interests to the General Congress through the ministry of your Excellency in order to obtain justice for the wrongs we explained to him. Our country is surrounded by Indians some of whom are our enemies by the changes of the war. Animated by the profusion of presents which are given to them every day these have placed a fatal obstacle to the plans of M. de la Balme, who went away from here with a number of Frenchmen on an expedition which he planned against Detroit. Several members of this party have just returned and report that, after
Page 200
aoo ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS party viennent d'ariver icy qui raportent qu'après Sêtre Emparé du fort des miamis quils ont été ataqués par cette nation en se resterant, que plusieurs ont été tués mais quils ignorent si Monsieur Le Colonel En Est du Nombre, ou s'il y a été fait prisonier. Cet Evénement fâcheux nous fesoit Entrevoir que notre Ecrit aura été Intercepté, Et que par consequens votre Excellence ignorera La triste situation d'ancien Sujet d'un prince que nous cherisons, nous prenons la liberté de vous adresser une Copie de Lecrit dont Loriginal a été Remis a Monsieur Labalme signes de tous les Citoyens; L'aliance entre Le Roi de france notre premier maitre, Et Les Etats de Lamerique nos souverains aujourd'huy, nous Engagnent, Monseig- neur de suplier votre Excellence de vouloir vous intéresser auprès du congres General pour Le Redressement des Griefs que nous Expliquons par notre Ecrit. Notre Génie Est Si peu de Chose quil ne nous est Pas Possible de nous Exprimer dans des termes asses ellequan pour vous faire con- noitre La Sincérité de nos Coeurs, nous Sommes Eloignes de la Pro- [Translation.] having taken possession of the fort of the Miamis, they were attacked by that nation and in retreating many were killed; but that they do not know whether the colonel was one of the killed or whether he was captured.1 This unfortunate event causes us to believe that our letter may have been intercepted, and that consequently your Excellency is ignorant of the sad situation of the former subjects of a prince whom we love. We therefore take the liberty to send to you a copy of the writing, the original of which signed by ail the inhabitants was given to M. de la Blâme. The alliance between our former master, the king of France, and the states of America, our présent sovereigns, induce us, Monseigneur, to beg of your Excellency to be kind enough to intercède for us in the General Congress for the réparation of the wrongs, which we explain in our writing. Our talent is so limited that it is impossible for us to express our- selves in terms éloquent enough to cause you to know the sincerity of our hearts. We are separated from the protection which belongs to us, •He was killed and his papers captured. Thèse were sent to Governor Haldimand of Canada, and in time were deposited in the British Muséum.
Page 201
INHABITANTS TO LUZERNE 201 tection qui vous appartiene, gouvernés Par des Gens qui nont pas Jusquaujourd'huy proposé a La Société une forme de Gouvernement ny administration de la Justice Civil seul apui de Lexistance du Citoyen abandonné donc a nous même, Monseigneur sous la confiance de Cette même aliance qui nous Lie par un Esprit Patriotique, il ne nous Laisse d'autre apui que la Protection de votre Excellence que nous reclamons comme anciens Sujets d'un Prince dont vous même ete sujet. Nous avons L'honneur detre avec Le plus Profond Respect Monseigneur de Notre Excellence Les très humbles obéissant Et soumis Serviteurs A Son Excellence Monseigneur Le Chevalier De La Luzerne [Translation.] and are governed by people who have not thus far proposed to the com- munity a form of government or administration of civil justice, the only support for the existence of the citizen. Thus abandoned to ourselves, Monseigneur, and in the confidence of that same alliance which binds us by a patriotic spirit, there is left to us no other support than your Excellency's protection, which we ask as former subjects of a prince of whom you are a subject yourself. We have the honor to be with profound respect, Monseigneur, your Excellency's very humble, obedient, and submissive servants. To his Excellency Monseigneur Le Chevalier de la Luzerne.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 202
CHAPTER VI THE TRIUMVIRATE, OCTOBER 18, 1780, TO MARCH, 1781 Bentley Writes to ms Enemies — John Rogers Makes Demands — The Magistrates Complain of Further Exactions — George Morgan Writes to Dodge — Captain Rogers Threatens and the Magistrates Show Some Spirit — Captain George Sends ms Sympathy—Accounts of Mismanagement—Winston Criticises the Court —Thomas Bentley Refuses to Take Oath of Allegiance — He Appeals to Virginia — Richard M'Carty is Appointed Com- missioner to Virginia and Makes his Will — A Mémorial to the Governor — Captain Janis Writes of De la Balme. Thomas Bentley to his Enemies, September 5, 1780 [M. C, T. MSS — Attestée! Copy.] Messieurs les habitans Particulièrement Ceux qui ne sont pas mes amis, mais qui cherchent a me faire tord. A mon retour Chémoy hier après midy, J'ay apris qu'il y avoit une Bande, où détachement Des habitans a ma maison, Ce cy, renouvelle En moy touttes les Injures que J'ay reçu Du temp de rocheblave, La traîne formé Contre moy par ce quoqin [sic] Et la plus Grande partie de Vous ses Complisses, les atestations faites pendent que j'etois En Can- adas pour me ruiner Et soutenir Rocheblave, Copie de laquelles j'ai entre mes main témoins Contre vous vos sentiment D'honneur, Gén- [Translalion.] Messieurs the inhabitants, particularly those who are not my friends, but who seek to do me harm. Upon my return home yesterday afternoon, I learned that there had been a band or detachment of the inhabitants there. This revives in me the memory of ail the injuries that I suffered in the time of Roche- blave. The drag-net prepared against me by that rogue and most of you, his confederates, the attestations ■ made while I was in Canada in order to ruin me and support Rocheblave, a copy of which I have in my hands, bear witness against you of your sentiments of honor, gener202
This page contains an image.
Page 203
BENTLEY TO HIS ENEMIES, SEPTEMBER 5, 1780 203 érosité ou amitié, Et que presque tout les habitans de C'est Endroit ce sont joient à Rocheblave Pour me détruire Et mesme se sont rejouit de ma Destruction. Vos satisfactions à mon malheur ne pouvoit éstre plus Evidante que dans vos Caresses, et soufranc[es] La société D'unne Grase [Garce], infamme, Et abandonne qui à vécu publiquement En violation de toutte Loix humaines et Divine, Je sçay que la plus Grande partie de vous sont mortiffié En me voyent me débatre pour surmonter les diffi- culté dont vous mesme Conjouinctement avec le Quoquin Rocheblave, Cerré et autres mont chargé, Je suis persuades qu'il n'y En à pas dix parmy Vous dans Ce Village qu'il ne souaiterois me voir Ecrazé sous le fardeau de Mes malheures, Je sçay que C'est un Crime pour un Maudy Anglais D'entreprendre de rester parmy vous Les Irlandais vous convienent mieux, Ils sont Egales a vous En perfidie, Et pour mentir, flater, et Boire Du taffias autent qu'auq'un de vous, Je ne désire Pas vos visites Chèmoy de telle façon les regardant pour Le plus grand Insulte Et vous fairié bien de vous désister, personne qui me veut [Translation.] osity, and friendship, and that almost ail the inhabitants of this place joined themselves to Rocheblave to destroy me, and that they rejoiced at my downfall. Your satisfaction in my misfortune could not be more évident than in the kindnesses shown to, and in suffering the society of, a wench infamous and abandoned who lived publicly in violation of ail laws human and divine.1 I know that most of you are mortified to see me struggling to overcome the difficulties which you yourselves, conjointly with that rascal Rocheblave, Cerré, and others, have brought upon me. I am persuaded that there are not ten amongst you in this village who would not like to see me crushed under the load of my misfortunes. I know that it is a crime for a damned Englishman to attempt to stay among you; Irishmen suit you better; they are equal to you in per- fidy; as for lying, flattering, and drinking tafia they can do it as well as any of you.2 I do not désire your visits to my home in this fashion, for I consider them as the greatest insuit; and you would do well to 1 Probably a référence to his wife, see posl, p. 431. There is plenty of évidence that Bentley refused to live with his wife after his return to Illinois. 1 Référence to Richard M'Carty, with whom Bentley had a lawsuit at this time. See ante, p. 216; also IU. Uisl. Collations, ii., cl.
Page 204
204 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS du bien ne vien Chèmoy De telle façon; ma maison En toutemps Est ouverte pour mes amy si j'en ay je les connoit, et Suis toujour paré à leurs donner toutte satisfaction, quon peut Exiger d'un homme d'hon- neur et d'intégrité. Quelque Vagabons Infâmes à Eu L'audace de Demander A visiter mes livres Rien que L'ignorance sans Pareille, Jouint au plus parfait Impertinence Irlandais pouvois penser à Cela, un homme du mouindre honneur aurois le méprisé pareille idée. Je suis informé que la Cauze pour laqualle Vous êtes Venue est raport au taffias Donné au Nègres à Ce sujet Je vous satisfait sur l'hon- neur D'un homme dintegrité; Ce nest point de moy qu'ils En ont Eu ny de personne de ma part, ayent strictement deffendue pareille Commerce. Je Conclus En disent que si Chaqun de vous agissoit En Caractaire Doneste homme autant que J'ai toujour fait, vous ne Chercherie pas ma destruction Comme vous avés déjà fait, les Effets mellancolique Des quel Je me resent Encaure, Et vous naurie pas Cherché à me détruire Comme il me paroit que Vous Este Encaure passionê a faire, Je suis Mrs votre &c &c &c signe Thomas Bingtelay [Translation.] desist. No one who is well disposed towards me cornes to my house in such a manner. My house is at ail times open to my friends. If I have any, I know them and I am always prepared to give them ail the satis- faction that can be asked of a man of honor and integrity. Some in- famous rascal had the audacity to ask to inspect my books. Nothing but unparalleled ignorance, joined to the most perfect Irish impertinence, could think of such a thing; a man of the least honor would have scorned such an idea. I am informed that the cause for which you came was in regard to the tafia given to the negroes. On this subject I can satisfy you on the honor of a man of integrity, that it was not from me that they had it nor from any person in my employ, since I have strictly forbidden such a commerce. I conclude by saying that, if each one of you acted the character of an honest man as well as I have done, you would not seek my down- fall, as you have already done, the melancholy results of which I still resent; and you would not have sought to destroy me as it seems to me that you are still most eager to do, I am, gentlemen, your etc. etc. etc. (Signed) Thomas Bentley
Page 205
BENTLEY TO HIS ENEMIES, SEPTEMBER 5, 1780 205 S 7bre 1780 Je suis Informé que lachanse Et Brazeaux son à acumuler tout les mahis pour Mr. Cerré, Pourquoy naurois je pas la même liberté, tendis que peutestre Je donne de meilleur Marchandise Et à meilleur marché, la raizon Est que Mr Cerré à qui Je prouveré un jour avenir qu'il est un homme sans sentiment, Est un français, Et Moy un maudy anglais. aurois je resue dans ma maizon une ville Garce prostitué, Et sans principe, le Comportement De la quelle mérite le mépris de touttes personne qui possède le mouaindre sentiment D'honneur Je suis Con- vaincu que Jaurois En vos approbation Et Congratulations à Ce Sujet, mais permeté moy Messieurs que je vous dize, que Je ne Cherche point Vos applaudissement voyent que Je ne puis le gagner sans avillir ma réputation En ver le reste du monde Les yeux du monde sont Sur moy Et Je Vous appranderay de sçavoir que les vrais Englais possedoit Des sentiments Inconnue a la gennerallité du monde. Je nentent point la présente pour mes amis ainsi il n'y prenderons point de mal, pour mes Ennemis ils pourons faire Comme ils voudrons Je nay pas Encaure finis avec Eux, J'espairé D'avoir Justice Contre Eux. [Translation.] Sept, s, 1780. I am informed that Lachanse and Brazeaux are gathering ail the corn for M. Cerré. Why should I not have the same liberty, inasmuch as it may be that I give better merchandise and cheaper? The reason is that M. Cerré, concerning whom I shall prove, at some future time, that he is a man without feeling, is a Frenchman, and I a damned Englishman. Could I have received in my house an old prositute wench without principle, whose actions deserve the scom of ail persons who possess the least sentiment of honor, I am convinced that I would have both your approbation and your congratulations on this subject; but allow me to tell you, gentlemen, that I am not seeking your applause, seeing that I cannot gain it without soiling my réputation in the sight of others. The eyes of the world are on me and I shall teach you to know that true Englishmen possess sentiments unknown to the greater part of the world. I do not intend this letter for my friends; so they will not take offence. As for my enemies, they can take it as they will; I have not yet finished with them; I hope to have justice against them.
Page 206
2o6 • ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Captaln John Rogers1 to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, November 10, 1780. [M. C, T. MSS.— Attested Copy.] Aux magistrats des KasKasKias en Cour assemblés Messieurs Jai appris que vous avez beaucoup d envie de Savoir pour quelle Raison Je reste en cet endroit Je vous diray donc que cest en Conséquence des ordres de mes Supérieurs et que je Suis Déterminé a y resté jusqu'à ce que Je Recois des ordres au Contraire et vous deveriés Estre Sensible que des troupes ne voudront pas Jeûner dans un pais d'abondance, en Conséquence Je vous demande Comme magistrat Civil tenant votre autorité de Lestât que Jai L'honneur de Servir Comme officier immédiatement de trouver quelque moyen pour subsistir Les troupes en garnison, soit en leur donnant des billets de logement ou autrement de la manière quil vous sera la plus Conven- able, soyez assuré quil vous Sera plus facille de nourir trente homme que trois cent que vous serez peut-Etre obligé de faire en Conséquence des mesures que vous pourrés Estre persuadés de prendre par des mauvais Conseilles dont Je suis Certain vous ne manques pas, assurés vous que [Translation.] To the Magistrates of Kaskaskia, in Court Assembled Gentlemen: I have learned that you are very desirous to know for what reason I am staying in this place. I will inform you, then, that it is in consé- quence of the orders of my superiors and that I am resolved to remain here, until I receive orders to the contrary. You ought to be aware that troops will not be willing to fast in a country of abundance, and therefore I ask you, as civil magistrates holding your authority from the state which I have the honor to serve as officer, to find immediately some means for maintaining the troops in garrison, either by giving them tickets for lodging or otherwise in the manner that may be most convenient to you. Rest assured that it will be easier to nourish thirty men than three hundred which you will be, perhaps, obliged to do in conséquence of the measures which you may be persuaded to take through the bad counselors, in whom I am certain you are not lacking. Be assured that I shall not allow them to pass unnoticed as they think. 1 Colonel Montgomrry icft Kaskaskia^ October 18, and Captain Rogers was placcd in com- mand. On this thaptcr consult ///. Hist. Collections, ii., pp. xcv. et seq.
Page 207
MAGISTRATES TO ROGERS, NOVEMBER 18, 1780 207 Je ne leur permettray pas d'echaper mon attention Comme ils Le Croyent Je vous demande Encore subsistance des troupes en garni- son Si vous refusés vous pourrés vous en repentir Lorsquil sera trop tard c'est La dernière requête de cette espèce que Je vous ferai Je ne vous demande pas des provisions Sans les payer quand il y aura des fonds que peut Etre tôt. fort Clark le 10 obre 1781 [1780'] Je Suis Messieurs traduit par Girault Vos très humbles serviteur John Rogers Capne Comman [Translation.] I ask again for maintenance for the troops in garrison. If you refuse, you may repent when it will be too late. This is the last request of this kind that I shall make to you. I do not ask for provisions without paying for them, when there shall be funds, which may be soon. I am gentlemen, Your very humble servant, John Rogers, Captain Commanding. Fort Clark, November 10, 1780. Translated by Girault. The Magistrates to Captain Rogers, November 18, 1780 [M. C, T. MSS.— Attested Copy.] KasKasKias le i8me novembre 1780 Mr Rogers Commd. Monsieur, Nous avons Eu L'honneur de recevoir une Lettre de vous, Sur le contenu de laquelle nous avons consulte tous les habitans nos concito- [Translation.] Kaskaskia, November 18, 1780 M. Rogers, Commandant. Sir: We had the honour to receive a letter from you, on the contents of which we consulted ail the inhabitants, our fellow-citizens, who hâve 1 By a lapsus mentis the derk has written the year he copied the letter instead of the year of the original. This is proved by the date of the attestation, which is March 5, 1781. The inference in lll. Hist. Collections, ii., p. cîx.t drawn from this wrongly datcd copy, should be corrected.
Page 208
208 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS yens Qui nous ont repondu que leur attachement a la Cause ameriquaine leur avoit fait sacrifier tous leurs Biens au service de L'Etat, Qu'ils ont fait Evidemment depuis près de trois années, qui a tellement reduit le Pais qu'il est hors d'Etat de fournir a Les habitans La Subsistence nécessaire pour luy mêmes, vous n'ignorés pas qu'après avoir tout pris ce que nous etions En Etat de fournir sans nous ruiner L'on a tué (sans notre sçu et contraire au loix de notre Gouvernement) nos animaux de charuës qui nous a mis incapables de faire les Semences necessaire Pour vivres, vous voyés donc qu'il est tout a fait Impossible que nous puissions vous faire des fournitures de vivres malgré notre Bonne Intention. Nous sommes tres sensibles aux menaces que vous nous faites puisque nous sommes assurés de ne pas les meriter qu'elle preuve plus convainquante de notre zéle et de notre patriotisme, pourrés vous Exiger que celle que nous avons donné, n'avons nous pas reçu le premier porteur du pavillon ameriquain les bras ouverts avec la faveur de Bons Citoyens? n'avons nous pas prouvé notre sincerité assés En four- nissant tous les Besoins de la troupe depuis son arrivée icy En les accompagnant dans toutes les sorties qu'ils ont fait. [Translation.] answered us that their attachment to the American cause had made them sacrifice all their possessions to the service of the state, which, it is evident, they have done for almost three years; and this has so reduced the country that it cannot furnish even the necessary subsistence to the inhabitants themselves. You are not ignorant of the fact that, after having taken from us all that we were in a condition to furnish without ruining ourselves, our beasts of burden were killed without our consent and against all the laws of our government and that this ren- dered us incapable of sowing the crops necessary for existance. You see then that it is altogether impossible that we should be able to furnish supplies, in spite of our good intentions. We are very sensitive on account of the threats you make to us, since we are sure that we do not deserve them. What proof more con- vincing of our zeal and patriotism could you require than those which we have given you? Did we not receive the first standard-bearer of the American flag with open arms and the hospitality of good citizens? Have we not sufficiently proved our sincerity by fournishing all the needs of the troops since their arrival herc, and by accompanying them in all the campaigns they have made?
Page 209
MORGAN TO DODGE, DECEMBER 1, 1780 209 Considerés donc notre situation Et voyés comme il est Impossible que nous vous donnions la subsistance puisque nous ne l'avons pas pour nous même, dailleurs vous devés sçavoir que L'intention du Gouvernement n'est pas de nous ruiner Et Que le Colonel Clark nous a mis a choix de Garder où de ne pas garder des troupes icy, vous En scavés L'inutilité, puis que nous sommes plus En Etat de nous proteger Contre nos Ennemis que de nous priver du peu que nous avons pour faire subsister nos familles Qui est loin de ce qui suffit. Enfin après toutes ces Considerations les habitans En General ont L'honneur de vous Exposer qu'il ne peuvent vous faire aucune provision vu leur pauvreté que vous ne devés ignorer. Nous avons L'honneur d'être avec bien de la Consideration Mon- sieur Vos tres humble Et tres obeissants serviteurs signé Jacques LaSource, signé Janis, signé Charles Charleville, signé Jean baptiste Bavvais, signé LaChanse, signé Godin. [Translation.] Consider then our situation and see how impossible it is for us to give you the subsistance, since we do not have it ourselves. You must know, moreover, that the intention of the government is not to ruin us, and that Colonel Clark gave us the choice of keeping or not keeping troops here. You know the uselessness of this, since we are more able to protect ourselves against our enemies than to deprive ourselves of the little which we have to maintain our families, and that is far from sufficient. In short, after all these considerations, the inhabitants in general have the honour to declare to you that they are unable, on ac- count of their poverty of which you surely are not ignorant, to make any provision for you. We have the honor to be, with very great consideration, your very humble and very obedient servants, (Signed) Jacques Lasource, (signed) Janis, (signed) Charles Charleville, (signed) Jean Baptiste Bauvais, (signed) Lachanse, (signed) Godin. George Morgan to John Dodge, December 1, 1780. [Draper MSS., 50J76.— A. L. S.] Princeton, December ist 1780. Dear Sir, Yesterday I receiv'd your favor dated the i3th of June which is the
Page 210
2io ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS first that has come to my Hands although you have been so good as to send me several. It gives me great Pleasure to hear you are so agreeably provided for, & that you are pleased with the Country. Whenever you have Leisure & Opportunity I shall be much obliged by your writing to me. The Spot you are on & indeed the whole Country & the ancient Inhab- itants are well known to me & I have a great regard for a Number of them. & those who enquire after me be pleased to make my Compli- ments to — particularly to Mr Janese, his good Lady, Mmsle Felicaté Magnion & toutes les Enfans. Mons DAtchrut, Mess" Charleville, Beauvais, Picard, Murain &c &c &c. I intend to see them, so soon as the Affairs of the Illinois can be placed on proper Footing. All the Country, West of Allegany Mountain will probably be put under Direc- tion of the United States, & Virginia limited to the Waters which fall into the Atlantic from the West & North West. In this Case several New States will be established, indépendant tho' United with our present Confederacy of Thirteen. A Pamphlet is now in the Press on this Subject ' One of which I intend to send you. I will also send to you several of our latest News Papers. My Family join in Compliments to you with Your Friend & hum Servant John Dodge Esq1. Geo: Morgan Do let me know how your Settlements go on — Where you build Forts & What Number of Troops & Inhabitants you have at Kentucke &c &c [Addressed:] To Captain John Dodge, Agent for the State of Virginia, Fort Jefferson. Mouth of Ohio. To the Care of Col1 Broadhead Command* at Fort Pitt. 1 This refers to Thomas Paine's "Public Good: Being an Examination into the Claim of Vir- ginia to the Vacant Western Territory, and of the Right of the United States to the Same: to which is Added Proposals for Laying off a New State, to be Applied as a Fund for Carrying on the War, or Redeeming the National Debt." This pamphlet was printed at Philadelphia and bears the date, December 30, 1780, so that it was probably "in the press" on December 1, the date of the letter. At the time Paine was charged with receiving a bribe in land from the Indiana Co., of which George Morgan was secretary and general promoter. This charge is disputed by his biographer, Conway (Life of Paine, i., pp. 163, et seq) but if the above identification is correct, the letter proves some relation between Paine and Morgan. Winsor, Westward Movement, 186.
Page 211
ROGERS TO THE MAGISTRATES, JANUARY 10, 1781 211 Capt. Rogers to the Magistrates of Kaskaskia January 10, 1781 [M. C, T. MSS.— Attested Copy.] Mess" Je suis SurPris de trouver que vous refusiés a Monsieur Bentley de luy accorder le privilège de la Justice dans votre Cour; Et que vous ayés la Présomption de dire, que mon certificat de ce qu'il a Prêté Le Serment de fidélité a l'Etat, pardevant moy Comme officiers com- mandant pour le dit Etat, n'est D'aucun Effet, Et ne luy donné pas les privileges d'un sujet, Il me semble que Monsr Bentley a le même droit a la Justice que vous même Et vous Pouvés être assurré que je puis donner des raison Et des preuves a des Juges Impartial de sa conduite qui le feron par- roitre peut être un meilleure amy de l'Etat que vous même Comme votre Cour parroit Par icy Etre d'Injustice Et non de justice, Et vous osé refuser mes certificats, dans les cas de fidellité, Je prend Sur moy de metre votre Court a côté Et repondre de La Consequence, Vous navés qu'a considéré Et rendre Justice ou je feray Comme il est mentioné cy dessus Votre Ser. J. Rogers Commandant. Je demande une reponce Immediate [Translation.] Gentlemen: I am surprised to find that you refuse to grant M. Bentley the privi- lege of justice in your Court; and that you have the presumption to say that my certificate to the effect that he gave oath of fidelity to the state before me as commanding officer for the said state is of no value; and that you do not give him the privilege of a subject. It seems to me that M. Bentley has the same right to justice as you yourselves have, and you may rest assured that I am able to furnish proofs and reasons to impartial judges concerning his conduct, which will make him appear perhaps a better friend to the state than you yourselves; for your Court seems in this to be one of injustice and not of justice. If you dare to refuse my certificates, in cases of the oath of fidelity, I take it upon myself to set aside your Court and to answer for the consequences. You have only to consider and render justice or I will do as it is mentioned above. Your servant J. Rogers,1 Commandant. I ask for an immediate answer. 1 For the history of this episode and its conscquences, consult III. Hist. Collections, ii., »cv.; and the (ollowing documents in this volume.
Page 212
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Vraye Copie Traduite Par signé Gerault [Endorsed:] Une L'étre adressée a la Cour par M. Roger Sois Disant Command. Le iome Janvier 1781 [Translation.] True copy translated by (signed) Gerault. [Endorsed:] A letter addressed to the Court by M. Rogers soi-disant commandant. January 10, 1781. The Magistrates of Kaskaskia to Captain John Rogers, January 10, 1781. [K. MSS — Attested Copy.] A Mr Jhn Rogers, Comd*, Monsieur, Nous avons reçu votre Lettre d'aujourd'huy Par laquelle vous nous donné sur votre seing La marque la plus ample de votre Capacité Dans la charge que vous vous jugerés &C. Nous ne doutons point de L'Envie que vous avés de vous Eriger En maitre absolu mais nous avons des actes du Pouvoir Legislatif De L'Etat de virginie pour nous Gouverner Et a laqu'elle nous croyons être obligé de nous conformer, comme vous êtes vous mêmes Quand nous requerions votre assistance. Quand a L'Injustice dont vous nous taxé il viendra peut être un [Translation.] To M. John Rogers, Commandant. Sir: We have received your letter of today in which you give us, over your signature, the most ample mark of your capacity in the duty which you will judge yourself etc. We have no doubts as to the desire, which you have, of establishing yourself as absolute master, but we have acts from the legislative power of the State of Virginia to govern us and to which we believe we are obliged to conform, as you are yourself, when we may require your help. As for the injustice with which you charge us, there may come, per-
Page 213
GEORGE TO INHABITANTS, JANUARY 11, 1781 temps plus heureux où nous prouverons notre bonne foy qui est toujours le Seul mobile qui Conduit les honnetes gens. nous avons L'honneur d'être Monsieur vos humbles serviteurs signé Jacques Lasource, signé La- chanse, signé Jean baptiste Beauvais, signé Godin signé Janis, signé Charles Charleville. Kaskaskiasle iome Janvier 1781. [Translation.] haps, a more fortunate time when we shall prove our good faith, which is ever the only incentive that guides honest people. We have the honour to be, Sir, your very humble servants, (Signed) Jacques Lasource, (signed) Lachanse, (signed) Jean Bap- tiste Bauvais, (signed) Godin, (signed) Janis, (signed) Charles Charle- ville. Kaskaskia, January 10, 1781. Captain George to the Inhabitants of Illinois, January 11,1781. [M. C, T. MSS.— Attested Copy.] Du fort Jefferson Ce 11me Jan. 1781 a messiuers les habitants Des Illinois En General, Et particulierement a Ceux des KaskasKias. Mes Chers amis Et Compatriotes Cest avec le plus prafond regret que jay appris que Vous Estes Voilé Et Pillé par Ceux que vous appellés nos gens, Soyez bien assurés que j'en Ressens Beaucoup de peine, Et que J'employeray tous mes efforts Pour Remedier a toutes Vos Plaintes, Et tous Vos griefs. Monsieur Kenedy a toujours Eté duement autorisé pour gerrer toutes nos affaires [Translation.] From Fort Jefferson, Jan. 11th 1781. To the Inhabitants of Illinois in general, and especially to those of Kaskaskia. My Dear Friends and Fellow-citizens: It is with the most profound regret that I have learned that you are robbed and pillaged by those whom you call our people. Rest well assured that I feel great grief because of it, and that I shall use all my efforts to remedy the causes of all your complaints and grievances. M. Kennedy has always been duly authorized to manage all our public
Page 214
2i4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Publiques dans Votre Pais. Il a actuellement mes Instructions pour faire lachapt des Vivres pour notre garnison Je Vous prie de le créditer, Car J'ai toutes ma Confiance En sa Bonnes Conduite, Et ses abillités particulièrement parce qu'il a été longtems un de vos concitoyens, Jaurois toujours Egard a Vos Plaintes, Et tant qu'il sera à Mon pouvoir Jy mettray ordre mais Comme le colonel Clark sera avec nous de Bon Printems Je suis persuade qu'il vous donnera une ample Satisfaction, de toutes les Injures que l'on Vous a Réellement faites. fiez Vous d'un antier, Et généreux payement, pour toutes les Pro- visions que Mr. Kennedy aura achettes Chez Vous, Et soyés assurés de la Bienveillance du gouvernement Envers Vous. Permettes moy l'honneur de me suscrire Mes Chers amy, Et Com- patriotes Votre très humbles Et très obt. Serviteur Et sincère amy Signé Robert George Capt. commandant Vraye Copie traduite de langlois par Signé Girault aux Kas. 21™ Jan. 1781 [Translation.] affairs in your country. He has at présent my instructions for the purchase of supplies for our garrison. I beg you to give him crédit, for I have full confidence in his good conduct and his ability, especially because he has been for a long time one of your fellow-citizens. I shall always give attention to your complaints, and so far as it shall be in my power, I shall settle them; but since Colonel Clark will be with us early in the spring, I am persuaded that he will give you ample sat- isfaction for ail the injuries that you have really received. Dépend on a full and generous payment for ail the provisions that M. Kennedy shall have bought from you, and be assured of the good wishes of the government towards you. Allow me the honor to sub- scribe myself, my dear friends and fellow citizens, Your very humble and very obedient servant and sincère friend, (Signed) Robert George.1 Capt. Commandant. True copy translated from the English by, (Signed) Girault. At Kaskaskia, Jan. 21, 1781. • This letter was also sent to Cahokia, where it was recorded on the record of the clerk. See ///. Hist. Collections, ii., 477. For biographical notice of Captain George, consult ibid., n. i. His letter to Clark, dated October 24 (Va. State Papers, i., 382) proves that Captain George had his suspicions of John Dodge and Thomas Bentley in the previous fall.
Page 215
SLAUGHTER TO JEFFERSON, JANUARY 14, 1781 215 George Slaughter to Thomas Jefferson, January 14, 1781 [Draper MSS., Si J"-— A. L. S.] Louisville, Janry 14th, 1781 Sir, I have the Honour to inclose to your Excellency letters from two Gentlemen at Auposte and copys of several others from Kaskaskias directed to Col° Clark and Col0 Todd. I have taken the Depositions of three persons which coroborates with the contents of these letters & have enclosed them also, for the consideration of your Board. The contents of the letters from the two French Gentlemen being a request for ammunition & understanding they apprehended an attack'd upon that post, I gave orders for Cap" George to send to Kaskaskias one hundred weight of powder & four hundred w* of Lead, with direc- tions for Cap" Rogers to lend what aid he can in getting across the country to auposte & shall endeavour to send a small Supply to that place immediately from here, this I have thought it Necessary to do as consider it of very great importance to this place the keeping the Auposte in our favour. With respect to Cap. Dodge the complaints against him are so general & I have so good authority for his having misapplied the Publick goods, and apprehending that he may possibly be collecting a cargoe of Peltry for the New Orleans market that I have given Cap" George Orders to make enquiry into his Conduct & if any thing of this sort appears, to Seize upon his person & what goods he may be Possessed of & secure them 'till further Orders. The letters now inclosed with those sent some time ago will so fully inform you of the state of Affairs in the Illinois that I shall not enlarge on the disagreeable Subject.1 I must beg leave to Mention the mismanagement of the person appointed to Superintend the making Salt with the Countrys Kettles. Somewhere about 50 or 60 bushels is all that has been recd from the persons who has work'd them, when private adventurers has been making near 10 times the Quantity with Kettles not boiling more than one fourth as much Water, owing principally to the indolence of the man who is appointed to carry on the businiss. If Sir Your Board should think proper to appoint Col° Floyd or 1 This letter called forth a reply from Clark in March. See Va. State Papers, I., 597.
Page 216
2i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS myself to take the directions of the Kettles I am persuaded a Sufficiency would be made for the Troops in this department. I am with much respect Your Excellencys Most ob* & very Hble Serv* George Slaughter. The two Letters from the French Gent, of the Auposte was by a Mistake inclosed to Col° Clark who will no doubt lay them before you. I cannot Omit Mentioning two [sic] you three Bills which I drew late in October last in favr of John Williams Province one for 220J Dollars one other for 286 Dollars & another for £2120 which I hope will be paid. Yre as before G. S. [Addressed:] To His Excellency Thomas Jefferson Esqr at Richmond Petition of Richard M'Carty to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia. January 17, 1781 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] a l'Respectable Court de CasKasKia &c &c Richd MCarty Capitaine d'un Compagnie Inf4 de Troup Régler aux Service de L'Etat de Virginie a l'honneur de vous presenter que ayant en Mars de l'anne 1779 Lever un Compagnie pour servire durant la Guère entre l'amerique et l'angleterre Par ordre de Colo1 Clark et de être habilier et payer par ledit Etat et que le manque de marchandises il nait point Reçue aucune argent de la dit Etat pour Subsister le dit Compagnie ou les habilier. mais pour le Bien dudit Service votre Supliant a fournis de son argent [Translation.] To the Honorable Court of Kaskaskia, etc. Richard M'Carty, Captain of an infantry company of regular troops in the service of the State of Virginia: Has the honor to represent to you that in March of the year 1779 he enlisted by order of Colonel Clark, a company of soldiers to serve during the war between America and England, and that these were to be clothed and paid by the said state; but that, on account of the lack of merchandise, he has not received any money for the support or clothing of the said company from the said state; that your suppliant has
Page 217
M'CARTY'S PETITION, JANUARY 17, 1781 217 propre pour Contenter autant qu'il pouvoit au dit Soldats et que la printemps passée votre Suppliant ou cet Eté dernier ait obtenu ordre de recevoir ce que luy revenoit a sa Compagnie, sur l'argent des dits Etat que m'ait Livré une partie avec peine malgré la misère et nuditte des dit pauvre Soldat, et N'ayant point de Chemise fait il m'ait donné Son Billet de me le remettre au Cas. ce quil refuse de faire qu'est l'occa- sion que plusieur de mes soldats sont déserter et d'autre que sont sans Chemise a Ces Cause le Cour ordonnera a le Sieur Dodge Agent de remplir son Billet que je peut Livrire a mes pauvre soldats ce qu'il ont Légitimement Gagnier Au Cas 17 Janer 1781 M'Carty Vu la requête cy dessus La Cours ordonne qu'elle soit signifie a partie pour y repondre donné En la Cour du district des KasKasKias Laudience y tenant le Mercredy 24 me Janvier 1781 Jacques Lasource [Endorsed:] Requête du Sr MCarty contre le Sr Doges. Le 20 Janvier 1781. No. 36 [Translation.] furnished, for the good of the service, his own money, as far as he could, to the said soldiers; and that, last spring or summer, your suppliant did receive an order, for what was due his company, on the money of the said state, a part of which was delivered to me, after many difficul- ties [made by the commissary John Dodge] in spite of the misery and nakedness of the said poor soldiers; and that, since [the said Dodge] did not have any ready-made shirts, he gave me his note to remit them to me at Kaskaskia; and [your petitioner represents] that this he has refused to do, which is the occasion that many of my soldiers have deserted and others are without shirts. For thèse reasons [your suppliant pétitions] that the Court shall command M. Dodge to fulfill his note so that I can deliver to my poor soldiers what they have legitimately earned. At Kaskaskia, January 17, 1781. M'Carty.1 In view of the above pétition the Court decrees that a summons be issued to the party to answer thereto. Given in the Court of the Dis- trict of Kaskaskia, in the session of Wednesday, January 21, 1781. Jacques Lasource. [Endorsed:] Pétition of M. M'Carty against M. Dodge, January 20,1781. 1 On Richard M'Carty consult Index of III. Hisl. CaUrctions, ii.
Page 218
2i8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Richard Winston to the Court of Kaskaskia, January 17, 1781 [M. C, T. MSS.— Attestée Copy.] a la Respectable cour du district des Kaskaskias &c &c &c Messieurs, J'ai été surpris qu'a la dernière Cour un des Magistrats a été assigné par le grefier, et Je ai Crue que vous avés arrêté Ce Cour mais Je voi le contraire puis que Je vien d'en recevoir une moi même, Cecy ne veut point dire que les Magistrats Et Commandant soient Exampt de par- oitre en justice, mais D'une autre manière. En Ladressant Respec- tueusement par Ecrir a la cour qui sans doutte Prendra connoissance de leurs affaire Et Leur rendra Justice qui poura Leur appartenir. Permété Massieurs que je vous observe qu'il est De votre devoir Et Pour Le bien public que Les Jours Daudience les Magistrats ne sabsente Point ce qui cause souvent de la prolongiation des procès ainsy Je vous prie Messieurs de prendre des arrangement convenable entre vous afin que Personne nait lieu de ce Plaindre. Si je pouvais sortir Jaurais été moi même â la Cour pour repondre au Plainte du Sieur Bentley II est de mon devoir Messieur que Je vous observe que Le Sieur Bentley na aucun Droit dattendre ny despérer la [Translation.] To the Honorable Court of the District of Kaskaskia, etc. etc. Gentlemen: I was surprised that, at the last court, one of the magistrates was summoned by the clerk, for I believed that you had stopped that course; but I see the contrary, since I have just received a summons myself. This does not mean that the magistrates and commandant are exempt from appearing before justice, but only in another way, namely by a respect- ful address in writing to the Court, which will take cognizance of their affair and will render them the justice that may belong to them. Allow me to remark, gentlemen, that it is your duty, and for the pub- lic welfare, that on the day of audience the magistrates should not be absent, for this often causes a prolongation of lawsuits. Therefore, gentlemen, I beg you to corne to some agreement among yourselves so that there may be no reason for any one to complain. Had I been able to go out, I should hâve been myself at court to answer to the complaint of M. Bentley. It is my duty, gentlemen, to
This page contains an image.
Page 219
JEFFERSON TO CLARK, JANUARY 20, 1781 219 Protection de la Loix sans qui fasse le même Serment de fidélité aux Etats que nous avons faites nous même Et Par devant un juge â paix, comme il Dit par un arest De Lassemblé générale de cette état au quelle vous est obligé de y conformer, ce icy n'est pas pour etuder de compter avec les au contraire Car qu'il fassar'i [?] qu'il ne fasse Point Je lui paiera toute ce que Je suis dans Le cas de Lui devoir. Jai lhonneur d'être avec Profond respect votre très heumle et obéissent Serviteur signé Rich. Winston. KasKasKias 17 Janvier 1781 [Translation.] state to you that M. Bentley has no right to expect, or to hope for, the protection of the law without taking the oath of allegiance to the states, which we ourselves have taken, and that he must do this before a justice of the peace, as is stated in a decree of the General Assembly of this state to which you are obliged to conform. This is not so as to 1 for on the con- trary, whether he does it or does it not, I shall pay him all that I may owe him. I have the honor to be, with profound respect, Your very humble and obedient servant, Rich. Winston. Kaskaskia, January 17, 1781. Thomas Jefferson to George R. Clark, January 20, 1781. [Draper MSS., 51J17.— L. S.] In Council January 20. 1781. Sir, Having cause to entertain doubts from several Letters transmitted to me whether mr Jn° Dodge who was appointed to conduct a commerce with the Indians on behalf of this state has not been guilty of a gross misapplication or mismanagement of what has been confided to him and the distance between him and us rendering it impracticable to call the examination before ourselves, you are hereby authorized and desired either by yourself or such persons as you shall appoint to enquire into any part of his conduct which you may have reason to suppose unjustifiable and if it be found so, to remove him from his office and take such meas- ures as may be most effectual for bringing him to account and indemni- 1 Evidently the clerk has failed to copy some words, for the passage as it stands is untranslatable.
Page 220
220 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS fying the public against such malversations, should he be removed we think it unnecessary to appoint another in his stead. I am Sir. Your most ob* humble servant, Thé: Jefferson. Colo G R Clarke [Addressed:] Colo George Rogers Clark Thomas Bentley to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, January 31, 1781. [M. C, T. MSS.— Attested Copy.] A Messieurs Les magistrats de la respectable Cour des KasKaskias &c &c &c Messieurs, Thomas Bentley negt. en la ville des KasKasKias déclare que le tren- tième du mois de décembre dernier Je me serois présenté a vôtre Cour ou Jaurois demandé le payement de diverses sommes qui me Sont due dont Le Refus m'en a été fait par ladte Cour disant quil ne voulaient pas me rendre aucune Justice au moins que Je naye prêté serment, mais Comme Je leur ay demandé avoir le Serment il mont fait voir celuy doffice Ecrit en françois ce que Je nai voulu accepter que dautant que Je resterais sujet, leur ayant déclaré et ce la présence de Mr. Jean Dodge agent de lestât pour le département Sauvage et Daniel Murray qui sont prêts a [Translation.] To the Magistrates of the Honorable Court of Kaskaskia, etc. etc. Gentlemen: I, Thomas Bentley, a merchant in the village of Kaskaskia, déclare that, on the thirtieth of last December, I presented myself in your Court where I demanded the payment of certain sums which are due me. This was refused me by the said Court, who affirmed that they were unwilling to render me any justice unless I had taken the oath. When I asked them to show me the oath, they showed me the oath of office, written in French, which I did not wish to accept, inasmuch as I would still remain a subject. This I declared to them in the présence of M. John Dodge, agent of the state for Indian affairs, and Daniel Murray, both of whom
This page contains an image.
Page 221
BENTLEY TO THE COURT, JANUARY 31, 1781 221 faire serment pour la confirmation de la Chose et dans le moment ce qui ma obligé de Sortir et trouver le Capitaine Rogers commandant de la troupe a qui Jai prêté le Serment ordinaire et dans le moment porté son Certifficat à la Cour et après l'avoir présenté il mont dit que la Cour pro- chaine il me Rendroient Justice, ce que mont refusé malgré de mètre présenté Je demande que la Cour maccorde par ces présentes touttes plaintes que Je leurs ai deja porté pour mes Créances principallement Mrs. Richard M'Carty et michel Perrault aux fins de me Compter Les Sommes qui me Sont dues c'est a dire Michel Perrault de quatorze Cent vingt Sept livres dix sols en pelleterie, trois cent trente livres arg' Réel et Cent soixante dix piastres selon Ses Cinq Billets et Compte présente avec Celuy cy ainsy que Lobligation du Mr. M'Carty montante selon Le Compte livré avec a la Somme de neuf mille six cent Soixante treize livres treize sols en pelletérie et a déffaut de payement et d'une sentence rendue Jabandonne de ce jour les dites Lettres entre Les mains de la Cour protestant par ces présentes contre ladte Cour comme de droit en Rappellant au gouvernement de la Virginie, sur tous frais dépens dom- [ Translation.] are ready to swear to the truth of this thing and to the time. This obliged me to go out and find Captain Rogers, commandant of the troops, to whom I gave the ordinary oath; and at that same time I took his certificate to the Court and, after having presented it, they told me that, at the following meeting of the Court, they would render me justice. This they refused me, in spite of the fact that I presented myself there. I beg that the Court grant me by thèse présents ail the complaints that I have formerly brought before them in connection with the debts owing to me, especially in the case of Richard M'Carty and Michel Perrault, so that they may pay me the sums that are due me: that is to say, Michel Perrault, the sum of fourteen hundred and twenty-seven livres and ten sous in peltries, three hundred and thirty livres in ready cash, and one hundred and seventy piastres according to his five notes and account pre- sented herewith; likewise the obligation of M. M'Carty, amounting, according to the account delivered herewith, to the sum of nine thousand six hundred and seventy-three livres and thirteen sous in peltries. And in default of payment and of a sentence rendered, I abandon from this day the said notes into the hands of the Court, justly protesting by thèse présents against the said Court, and appealing to the government of Vir-
Page 222
22a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS mages et Interest qui pourra Courir a lavenir &c &c. &c. fait aux Kas- KasKias Le trente et un de Janvier 1781 signé sur Loriginal demeure déposé au greffe du district des KasKasKias signé T Bentley, Barutel, Jn Dodge témoins John Rogers Command*. Comme La requête et protest cy dessus et de lautre part a Este prés- ent a Mr. Carbonneaux greffier de la Cour et Nore publique qui après lavoir reçu et gardé quelque tems a Refusé d'en prendre Connoissance et Sans autorité me la renvoyé et Comme des pareils procédés de la part de Mrs Les magistrats peuvent me faire beaucoup du tort mayant refusé la liberté de poursuivre mes dettes en Justice et dans leurs Cours ce qui me met dans le Cas de mexposer à tout perdre, Je Suis en Conséquence obligé de délivrer et remettre tous les billets et Comptes a ladte Cour leur abandonnant touttes mes demandes et prétentions pour leurs Comptes et risques la Liste desquelles Je livre avu, montant a la Somme de Vingt et un mille trois cent Cinquante deux piastres sept Escalins Et demy en arg' sonnant, et Cinq mille neuf cent trente huit livres de farine, c'est pourquoi Je solemnellement proteste par ces présentes Contre tous et [Translation.] ginia for ail charges, expcnses, damages, and interest, which may accrue in the future etc. etc. etc. Done at Kaskaskia, January 31, 1781. Signed on the original, which is deposited at the clerk's office in the District of Kaskaskia. (Signed) T. Bentley, Barutel, John Dodge, witnesses; John Rogers, Commandant. Since the pétition and protest, written above and on the other page, was presented to M. Carbonneaux, clerk of the Court and notary public, who, after he had received it and kept it for some time, refused to take any notice thereof and without any authority sent it back to me, and, since such a proceeding on the part of the magistrates, namely denying me the liberty to sue for my debts judicially in their Court, can do me much harm by placing me in a position to lose ail, I am therefore obliged to deliver and remit ail notes and accounts to the said Court, abandoning to them ail my demands and prétentions at their account and risk, a list of which I deliver to you, amounting to the sum of twenty-one thousand three hundred and fifty-two piastres, seven escalins and a half in ready cash and five thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight pounds of flour.
This page contains an image.
Page 223
BENTLEY'S OATH, FEBRUARY 13, 1781 223 chacun de susdit magistrats et Contre toutte autre Personne quelconque qui aide ou assiste dans ladte Cour, en appellant par ces présentes à Son Excellence Mr. le Gouverneur et Son honorable Conseil et membre de lassemblée de lestât de Virginie pour tous les frais dommages et interests quelconques Souffert ou souffrés en Conséquence des injustice procédés des Susdits magistrats au KasKasKias le 13 février 1781. Signé Sur la minuette déposée au greffe du dictrict des KasKasKias, T Bentley Jno. Rogers Jn. Dodge témoins [Translation.] It is for this reason that I solemnly protest by thèse présents against each and ail the above mentioned magistrates and against ail other per- sons who in any way aid or are présent in the said Court, appealing by thèse présents to his Excellency the Governor, the honorable Council, and members of the Assembly of the State of Virginia for ail the expense, damages, and interest whatever, incurred or to be incurred, in consé- quence of the unjust proceedings of the aforesaid magistrates. At Kas- kaskia the i3th of February, 1781. Signed on the original, deposited at the Clerk's office of the District of Kaskaskia, T. Bentley. John Rogers, John Dodge, witnesses. The Oath of Thomas Bentley, February 13, 1781 [M. C, T. MSS — Attested Copy.] Extrait des Registres des audiances du District des KasKasKias En la comté des Illinois dépendances de la République de la virginie à une Cours tenue au district des KasKasKias le mardy treizième Jour du mois de février deux heures après midy mil sept Cent quatrevingt Et un furent présens Jacques lasource, Nicolas caillot Lachanse, Charles chauvin charleville Michel godin, Jean baptiste Beauvais tous Ecuyers Juges et Magistrats du dit district [Translation.] Extract of the records of the sessions of the Court of the District of Kaskaskia, in the County of the Illinois, dependency of the Republic of Virginia. At a court held in the District of Kaskaskia, on Tuesday, Feb. 13, at two o'clock in the afternoon, of the year 1781, there were présent Jacques Lasource, Nicolas Caillot dit Lachanse, Charles Chau- vin dit Charleville, Michel Godin, Jean Baptiste Bauvais, ail of them esquires, judges, and magistrates of the said district.
Page 224
324 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS La Cours du district des KasKasKias assemblée ce Jourd'huy trei- sième Jour du mois de février mil sept cent quatrevingt et un deux heures de relevé, a Examiné Mûrement un Ecri Intitulé protest Contre la cours du dit District En datte du trente et unième Jour du mois de Janvier dernier Signé thomas Bentley dans lequel Ecri Le dit Sieur thomas bentley déclare Et dit que la sus ditte Cours a Exigé de lui le serment d'office qui est erronieux, La susditte Cours n'ayant Exigé du dit Sieur Bentley que le Serment de fidélité, Et de concitoyens pardevant le Lieutenant De comtée où un des Magistrats du dit district conform- mente a Lacté dassemblée de la Virginie En conséquence de quoi la sus ditte cours requert et offre de rechef au dit Sieur Bentley de se présenter Et de pretter le dit serment de fidélité Par devant la susdite cours où quelqu'un des dits Magistrats, où de présentér a la susditte cours où à quelqu'un Des dits Magistrats le serment qu'il dit avoir prette et signé pardevant Monsieur le Capitaine John Roger pour y être Enrégistré pour lors il sera reconnu véritablement et authentiquement Cytoyen de la ditte republique de la Virginie Et Justice lui sera rendue en cette qualité, En conséquence la susditte Cours n'a voulu prendre aucune [Translation.] The Court of the District of Kaskaskia, assembled at two o'clock in the afternoon of February 13, 1781, has examined very carefully a writing entitled protest against the Court of the said district, dated the 3ist. of January last, and signed by Thomas Bentiey, in which writing the said M. Thomas Bentley déclares and says that the aforesaid Court demanded of him the oath of office, which statement is erroneous; for the aforesaid Court has demanded of M. Bentley nothing more than the oath of allegiance and of fellow-citizenship, to be made before the lieutenant of the county or one of the magistrates of the said district according to the act of the Assembly of Virginia. In conséquence of which the aforesaid Court calls upon, and again offers to, the said M. Bentiey to présent himself and to take the said oath of allegiance before the said Court or before one of the said magistrates, or to présent to the aforesaid Court, or to some one of the said magis- trates, the oath which he claims to have taken and signed before Captain John Rogers, so that it may be registered; and then he shall be recognized truly and authentically a citizen of the Republic of Virginia, and justice will be rendered him in that quality. In conse-
This page contains an image.
Page 225
BENTLEY TO THE COURT, FEBRUARY 18, 1781 325 connoissance de ses comtes ny Billets Et lui renvoyé par l'huissier la liasse de papiers quil aposé Sur Sur [sic] la table de la cours, Gardant l'écrit qu'il a signé pour préserver les avances Erronieux qui sont dedans donné En la Cours du district des KasKasKias l'audiance y tenant le Mardy trésieme Jour du mois de février mil sept Cent quatrevingt et un Signé Jacques lasource Carbonneaux Greffier [Translation.] quence of his refusai the aforesaid Court has not been willing to take any cognizance of his accounts or notes, and sends back to him by the bailiff the bundle of papers which he placed on the table of the Court, keeping, however, the writing which he signed so as to préserve the erroneous charges which are contained therein. Given in the Court of the District of Kaskaskia, the Court being in Session, Tuesday, February 13, 1781. (Signed) Jacques Lasource Carbonneaux, Clerk. Thomas Bentley to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, February 18, 1781 [M. C, T. MSS — Attested Copy.] avertissement Les Magistras du distrit des KasKasKias et tous ceux à qui il appartient Sont avertis par ces présentes que Je parts pour le Gouverne- ment, afin d'obtenir Justice contre eux, leur ayant déjà signifié un pro- test en date du 13 du courant avec les Billet et obligations qui me sont dues, montant a la somme de vingt un mille trois cent Cinquante deux piastres sept Escalins Et demie Largent sonnant, que Je lur [sic] ai [Translation.] NOTICE The magistrates of the District of Kaskaskia and ail those whom it may concern are warned by thèse présents, that I am starting for the government in order to obtain justice against them, after having ad- dressed them a protest, dated the thirteenth of this month, and deposit- ing with them the bills and obligations which are due me, amounting to the sum of twenty-one thousand three hundred and fifty-two piastres,
Page 226
326 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS livré pour leur compte et risque en présence de plusieurs témoins En conséquence, J'en appelé publiquement au Gouverneur et conseil de la Virginie; et proteste de rechef contre tous les dits Magistras pour tous les frais domages et depences souffertes ou a souffrire pour avoir abandonné mes affaires, et Intérêts et pour le voyage pénible qu'ils m'obligent faire faute de M'avoir rendu Justice KasKasKias le 18 de février 1781 signé t. Bentley [Translation.] seven and a half escalins, in cash, which I have left at their account and risk, in the présence of several witnesses. In conséquence of this I publicly appeal to the Governor and Council of the State of Virginia, and protest again against ail the said magistrates for ail the costs, damages, and expenses, suffered or to be suffered, on account of aban- doning my affaire and interests in order to undertake the difficult voyage which they compel me to make, because they will not render me justice. Kaskaskia, February 18, 1781. (Signed) T. Bentley. Certificate of Daniel Murray Concerning Bentley, February 23, 1781. [M. C, T. MSS.—Attested Copy.] Je certifie que jetois présent quand la Cours du Distrique des Kas- kaskias dans les Illinois ay demandé Et Exigé de thomas Bentley de ce dit Village de Kaskaskias Luy ayant Paru devant Eux En qualité de plaignant De prêter Le sermant de fidélité Comme Prescrit Par Lassem- blée général, lequel le dit Bentley a Refusé Et que la ditte Cour n'a pas demandé aucun autre Serment que Celuy de fidélité, quoy quil dit dans un Ecrit qu'il appelle Protest que la Cours Luy a demandé Le serment [Translation.] I certify that I was présent when the Court of the District of Kas- kaskia in the Illinois asked and required of Thomas Bentley of this said village of Kaskaskia, who appeared before the Court as plaintiff, to take the oath of allegiance as prescribed by the General Assembly. The aforesaid Bentley refused to do this, and the said Court asked for no other oath than that of allegiance, although he says in a writing which he calls a protest, that the Court demanded of him the oath of
This page contains an image.
Page 227
WINSTON'S CERTIFICATE, MARCH 9, 1781 227 Doffice. Chose Contradictoire En L'uy même Et comme j'ay Entendu dire qu'on s'est servy de mon nom En qualité de themoint, a la verité du d*Protest cy cela Est je déclare par ses Presentes que C'est feaux donné aux Kaskaskias Le 23 fevrier 1781 a loriginal. Signé DAN MURAY Je certifie avoir traduit mot a mot de langlois En français Le cer- tificat cy dessus Selon ma connoissance Kaskaskias Le 8me mars 1781. Signé Rich. Winston [Translation.] office, a thing contradictory in itself. And since I have heard that my name has been used in the capacity of witness to the truth of the said protest, (if that be true) I declare by this present writing that such a statement is false. Given at Kaskaskia, February 23, 1781. On the original. (Signed) Dan Murray. I certify that I have translated from English into French the above certificate word for word, to the best of my ability. Kaskaskia, March 8,1781. (Signed) Rich. Winston. Certificate of Richard Winston Concerning Bentley, March 9, 1781 [M. C, T. MSS.— Attested Copy.] Je soussigné substitué de Jean todet, Ecuyer Lieutenant de La Conté des Illinois Certifié que Jetais present, a la cour du District des Kaskaskias, quand le Sieur Bentley ses présenté Plaignant, et que la ditte Cour sur ses plaintes a Exigé de luy le le [sic] serment de fidelité comme il est prescrit dans lassemblée général a qu'il a refusé. ces pourquoi la cour ne lui â pas accordé â ses demandes la pro- [Translation.] I, the undersigned, deputy of John Todd Esquire, Lieutenant of the County of the Illinois, certify that I was present at the Court of the District of Kaskaskia, when M. Bentley presented himself as plain- tiff, and that the said Court required, on account of his suit, that he should take the oath of fidelity as is prescribed by the General Assembly, which he refused to do. It is for that reason that the Court did not grant him on his petition
Page 228
228 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS tection des Estât ne voulant point se Conformer aux loix qui donne au vray Citoyen soultes represaille Pour leurs Intérêts Kaskaskias le ome mars 1781 signé Rich: Winston. [Translation.] the protection of the state, since he was unwilling to conform to the laws, which give to the true citizen equitable means of recovery for their interests. (Signed) Rich. Winston. Kaskaskia, March 9, 1781. Affidavit of Israel Dodge, March 17,1781 [Va. State Library.—A. D. S.] Borouoh of Clarkevhxe, Ss. Personally appeared before me aforesaid Israel Dodge and made oath on the holy Evangelists of Almighty God that being sent by John Dodge Agent of the State last summer to Kaskaskias in order to dis- charge sundry Debts which had been contracted by him for the state, and particularly an acc: which had been already presented by the County Lieutenant Richard Winston that from various actions of the said Winston, being suspicious of his intention to injure and impose upon the State at all opportunities in order to bring his actions to a proof this deponant Pretended to have lost the Accounpt [sic] already delivered and demanded a new one, when the said Winston presented another to which this deponent pretending to make some difficulty the said Winston affirmed to him these words, that upon his Credit, and upon the word of a Gentleman it was an Exact and true Copy of the Account already delivered and that he was ready to make oath of the Same That notwithstanding this declaration, this deponant upon com- paring the two accounts found a difference of thirty two hard Dollars in Prejudice to the first Ace' whereby it plainly appeared that the said Richard Winston County Lieutenant of Kaskaskias in the Illinois County was desirous of imposing upon him and injuring the County of Thirty two hard Dollars and farther this Deponant saith not Sworn this 17th March 1781 before me Joseph Hunter.
This page contains an image.
Page 229
ALLEGIANCE OATH TO VIRGINIA, APRIL 19, 1781 229 John Todd to the President of Congress, April 15, 1781 [C. C. Pp. Ind. Affairs, 56, p. 97.—A. L. S.] Lexington Fayette County Virginia Honorable Sir, By accounts from the Proceedings of the last Winter Session of the General Assembly of Virginia just arrived I am informed that they have given up to the United States for certain Uses their Claim to that Tract of Territory between the 36J and 40th Degrees of N. Lat— Northwest of the Ohio called Ilinois County. In the Year 1778 the President and Masters of the College of William and Mary were pleased to confer upon me the Office of Surveyor of that County which Com- mission I have ever since held. My Design in this letter is to prof[f]er my services in Capacity of Surveyor in the late ceded Territory to your Honor. I shall be ever ready to comply with your Requisitions in giving further previous Surety for the faithful discharge of my Office and in executing the Consequential Orders. My Situation so conve- nient to that Country, my Acquaintance with the place and people and my former Commission unforfeited by any Misfeazance I beg leave to urge as several pleas on behalf of my Request. Whenever required I shall take a pleasure in waiting upon your Honor and Congress I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect your most obedient and humble Servant Jno Todd Jr The honble the President of Congress 15th April 1781 [Endorsed:] Letters John Todd Junr. June 12 1781 Ordered to be on the table-Laid [Addressed:] To the Honorable The President of Congress Oath of Allegiance to the Republic of Virginia, April 19, 1781 [K. MSS — Attested Copy.] Je fais serment de Renoncer et Refuser toute fidélité &. George trois Roy de la Grande Brettagne, ses hoirs et Successeurs, et que je Seray fidelle et Porteray vray fidellité a la Republique de la Virginie comme une [Translation.] I make oath to renounce and to refuse all allegiance to George III. King of Great Britian, his heirs and successors, and that I will be faith- ful and will bear true allegiance to the Republic of Virginia, as a state
Page 230
S3o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Etat Libre et Indépendant, Et jamais Je ne feray, Ny ne feray faire aucune chose qui puisse être Préjudiciable ou Injurieux â la Liberté et Indépendance du dit état Comme déclaré Par le Congres, et aussy que Je Découvriray et feray Scavoir, a quelque Juge de paix du dit Etat, toutes Traisons ou conspirations qui Sont venue ou Pourons venir a ma connoissance, formé contre le Dit Eta ou quelque autre des États unis de lamérique [Translation.] free and independent, and that I will never do, nor cause to be done, anything which might be detrimental or injurious to the liberty and independence of the said state as declared by Congress; and also that I will disclose and cause to be known to some judge of the peace of the said state all treasons or conspiracies, planned against the said state or some other state of the United States of America, that have come or may come to my knowledge.1 Carbonneaux. Will of Richard M'Carty, April 25, 1781. [Collection of P. B. Casgrain, Quebec.— Copy.] Extrait des livres des enregistrements du Greffe de la Comté des Illinois, au District des Kaskaskias, dépendances des Etats-Unis de l'Amérique.2 I, Richard McCarthy, of Cahos in the Illinois, Gentlemen, being obliged for many reasons to make a voige from this to the seat of Govern- ment of the common wealth of Virginia, said voige being long and dangerous, on account of the different Indian Nations at war with the United-States of America, prudence dictates to me to make, constitute and appoint persons at this place to take care of my property and con- cerns in this place, that my wife and children in Canada may enjoy the same in case the Almighty shall please to dispose of my life other- wise, for which purpose I have and also do by these presents write and signed with my hand constitute and appoint Messrs Richard Winston and Charles Charleville, Esquires of the town of Caskakea, in the 1 Since this was copied by the clerk at the time he was preparing other papers to be sent to Vir- ginia, we may accept this as a copy of the oath which the Court asserted was tendered Bentley. It is a French translation of the customary oath used in Virginia. 1 The original will and the record of it at Kaskaskia have been lost. The copy, from which this is taken, was made for the family, June 9,1789. Mr. P. B. Casgrain called my attention to it and made the copy for me.
This page contains an image.
Page 231
M'CARTY'S WILL» APRIL 25, 1781 831 Illinois, my good and faithfull friends, they will as soon as information comes to them of my death or any other thing happening me, put this my writing in force and inform my wife and children in Canada Thereof, who are after what I lawfully owe being paid my only heirs which is the only intent and meaning of this writing. They will find my commission Registered in the Register's office at Cahos, likewise my claims to a tract of land above the town of Cahos,' they will observe that my commission as a captain in the service of the state of Virginia as a regular, by which my wife and family may reap some benefit in process of time, several notes, &c, the original I take with me are registered in the office of Kaskaskias my book and papers remain here in a chest, copies of notes, viz: with the States during my command at Cohos I have with me as well as the pay roll of my com- pany up to the 31st december 1780, copies of which are in my books, as yet I have received nothing for my pay or that of my company or the raising of them but have taken it with my own property. Some disputes may arise concerning an Indian girl named Lisette formerly my property my friends will observe that she is free and has been several years past, and her freedom is registered in the office at Cahokia when under the British Government Monsieur Rocheblave Commanding officer my intention is that she receives so and keep all she has of my effects in hand whatsoever — all other of my effects, Debts, Bills, Bonds, Obligations, Notes &c, be to and for the use of my wife Ursule Benoist McCarty. and my son Richard McCarty- Benoist McCarty and Ursula McCarty, my daughter, now in Canada Montreal — in witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand at Caskas- Kia this 25th day of April one thousand seven hundred and eighty one & in the fifth year of our Independence. Signed: Richard McCarty [Addressed:] To Messrs Richard Winston & Charles Charleville Esq., or either of them them to execute. Signed: Richard McCarty. Enregistré au greffe de la comtée des Illinois au district des Kas- kaskias, pages 134, 135,136 et 137 folio 63, par nous notaire et greffier [Translation.] Recorded at the clerk's office of the County of the Illinois in the District of Kaskaskia, pages 134, 135, 136, and 137, folio 63, by us, 1 Printed in III. Hist. Collections, ii., 465, 471.
Page 232
232 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS du dit district Kaskaskias, le quatrième jour du mois de juillet mil-sept- cent-quatre-vingt-un. „ _, _ n ° Carbonneaux, Greffier. Nous soussigné, Notaire et Greffier, en la comtée des Illinois au District des Kaskaskias, y résident soussigné, paroisse de l'Immaculée Conception de Notre-Dame, certifions que la copie cy-dessus et des autres parts est conforme à son original qui nous a été présenté par feu Sieur Richard Winston exécuteur testamentaire de feu Monsieur Richard McCarty pour l'enregistrer à l'instant à lui remis et délivrée par nous dit soussigné ce jourd'hui aux Kaskaskias le vingt-neuvième jour du mois de juin mil-sept-cent-quatre-vingt-neuf. Carbonneaux, Greffier. Nous Jean-Baptiste Barbau, député Lieutenant de la comtée des Illinois, capitaine et commandant à la prairie du Rocher &c certifions à tous qu'il appartiendra que Maître François Carbonneaux qui a signé la copie des autres parts, est notaire et Greffier en cette comtée, et que foy est ajoutéé aux actes par lui délivrés. En foy de quoy nous avons signés ces présentes à la prairie du Rocher, ce vingt neuvième jour du mois de juin mil-sept-cent-quatre-vingt-neuf. Barbau. [Translation.] notary and clerk of the said District of Kaskaskia, the fourth day of the month of July, 1781. Carbonneaux, Clerk. We the undersigned, notary and clerk, in the County of the Illinois, in the District of Kaskaskia, residing there, in the parish of the Im- maculate Conception of Our Lady, certify that the copy, above and on the other side, conforms to the original which has been presented to us by the late Richard Winston, executor of the late M. Richard M'Carty, to be recorded and immediately returned to him; and the said copy has been delivered by us this day at Kaskaskia, the twenty-ninth day of June, 1789. Carbonneaux, Clerk. We, Jean Baptiste Barbau, Deputy Lieutenant of the County of the Illinois, Captain and Commandant at Prairie du Rocher etc., certify to whom it may concern that Master François Carbonneaux, who has signed the copy on the other side, is notary and clerk in this county and that faith should be given to the instruments delivered by him. In faith of which we have signed thèse présents at Prairie du Rocher, this twenty-ninth day of the month of June, 1789.
This page contains an image.
Page 233
PETITION TO THE GOVERNOR, MAY 4, 1781 833 Pétition to the Governor of Virginia from the Inhabitants of Kaskaskia, May 4, 1781 [M. C, T. MSS.— A. D. S.] A Son Excellence Mr. Le Gouverneur de Virginie &c, &c, &c. Supplient très humblement Les habitants des KasKasKias Illinois et ont Lhonneur de Vous représenter très respectueusement quils auroient reçû Mr. Le Colonel Clark et ceux qui L accompagnoient avec tout Le zelle possible en arrivant dans ce pays, espérant Jouir Comme nos Compatriotes d'une Vraye Liberté comme il nous La assuré Les Suppliantes, ont fourni toutte Les provisions nécessaires aux troupes a un prix assez modique, qui leurs ont été payées avec une monnoye de Cartes et Lettres de change quil nous a dit valoir des piastres Espagnolles avec lequel argent nont pû avoir leurs Besoins ny en faire aucun employ et usage par Conséquent nous est resté entre les mains de nulle Valleur quant à Cela nous navons aucune plaintes contre Led* Sieur Clark; qui nous a laissé Sous le commandement des Mr. MtGomery duquel nous allons faire Le détail de Son administration. a esté fourny soixante Milliers de farine au moins a Compter depuis [Translation.] To his Excellency, the Governor of Virginia, etc., etc. The inhabitants of Kaskaskia in Illinois very humbly pray, and have the honor to make known to you that they received Colonel Clark and those, who accompanied him, with ail the zeal possible, when the latter arrived in this country, because they hoped to enjoy, as do our fellow- citizens, a true liberty as had been promised to them. The suppliants have furnished ail the necessary provisions for the troops at a price sufficientlv moderate, which provisions were paid for in a paper-money and letters of exchange which Colonel Clark told us were equal in value to Spanish piastres; and with this money [those who received it] were not able to procure what they needed or to make any use of it. Consequently it remained on our hands, since it was of no value. In regard to this we have no complaint to make against the said M. Clark, who left us under the command of M. Montgomery, of whose administration, we shall give a detailed account. He was furnished with sixty thousand pounds of flour at least, counting from the autumn of the year 1779 until the month of May,
Page 234
234 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Lautonne mil sept cent Soixante dix neuf, Jusques au mois de may mil Sept cent quatre vingt, qui Estoit tout ce qui pouvoit Estre ôté cela Estoit plus que Suffisant pour la Subsistance de trente huit hommes de troupe y compris Les officiers, puis quil en à traitté pour Son propre compte sur la Rive Espagnolle; non content de Cela, à donné des ordres à Sa troupe daller de maison en maison armée, pour prendre de force ce quils trouveroient de farine. a fait tuer à Coups de mousquet dans Les Rues à la porte des granges et même dans les Cours quantité de nos annimaux domestiques, touttes fois et quantes le Caprice luy dictoit, malgré Les fournitures de Viande à luy faittes, alors les Suppliants luy ont représenté quil les ruinoit totalle- ment et que ce nestoit plus Jouir de La Liberté qui leur Estoit promise par L'honorable Colonel Clark chargé disoit-il des Estats unis de La- merique; Sa réponse fût, que sil y avoit quelqu'unes de mécontents, quils pouvoient Se préparer à tenir leurs armes en Estât et que luy et Sa troupe Estoient touts prêtes apparamment quil Vouloit faire main Casse sur nous ce que nous avons souffert Patiamment. Mr Le Colonel M'Gomery à fait une Infinité dinsultes aux habitants [Translation.] 1780, which was ail that could be collected. It was more than enough for the maintenance of thirty-eight troopers, including the officers, since he traded therewith on his own account on the Spanish shore. Not satisfied with this he ordered his troops to go, under arms, from house to house in order to seize by force what flour they could find. He has caused to be shot, in the streets, before the barn-doors, and even in the very yards, a number of our domestic animais, at ail rimes and whenever caprice dictated, in spite of the supplies of meat that had been given him. When the suppliants showed him that he was totally ruining them and that this was no longer the enjoyment of .that liberty that had been promised to them by the honorable Colonel Clark, who was commissioned, as he said, by the United States of America, his answer was that, if there were any who were disatisfied, they could prépare themselves to keep their weapons in condition, and that he and his troop were ail ready.1 Apparently he was willing to slaughter us ail, and this is the kind of treatment we have suffered patiently. Colonel Montgomery has continuously insulted the inhabitants of 1 For this threat, see ante, p. 150.
This page contains an image.
Page 235
PETITION TO THE GOVERNOR, MAY 4, 1781 235 de ce pays qui après avoir imploré sa Clémence Les à reçus Brusquement alors ils ont demandé à la Cour civille de Sommer ce Commandant de donner un Estât de la troupe qui Composoit Sa Garnison ce quil à Refusé malgré nos Justes et soumises représentations il nous a traitté dimpertinents; il navoit garde de Se Soustraire a la demande du peuple, puisquil nourissoit aux dépens du publique, quantité de familles y com- pris enfants et Esclaves qui navoient aucun rapport avec la garnison. ah quil Est douloureux à un peuple aussy bien soumis et porté dis- clination a S unir avec Lamerique; de Se Voir frustris aussy injuste- ment; par des personnes qui Estaient a tous Egards obligés de prendre Leurs Intérêts; pour recompense, il leur est resté Seulement des papiers dont on ne peut faire aucun usage, tandis que ceux qui Estaient en place sils avoient voulu accomplir leur promesse auroient fait honneur avec des marchandises cela auroit Epargné quantité de fraix aux habitants pour leur procurér La rentrée des fonds de ce papier, et nauroient point Couru de risques dans un Circuit de Chemin aussy dangereux par Rapport aux Barbares d'autant mieux que Lestât de Virginie ne Serait plus reliquataire envers eux [Translation.] this country, who, after having implored his clemency, received such insults impatiently. Then they demanded that the civil court summon the commandant to give an account of the condition of the troops that composed his garrison. This he refused to do in spite of our just and humble représentations. He treated us as impertinent. He was careful not to submit to the demand of the people, since he was feeding, at the public expense, a number of families, including children and slaves, who had no connection whatever with the garrison.1 Ah! how grievous it is for a people, so submissive and anxious to unité with America, to see themselves frustrated so unjustly by persons who were bound by every tie to protect their interests. As a recompense, there remained in their hands only some papers, with which they can do nothing, while those who were in authority, if they had wished to fulfill their promises, should have honored thèse with merchandise. This would have spared great expense to the inhabitants in procuring for them the payment of the principal of this paper-money; and they would not have had to run risks over roads so dangerous because of the Indians; and still better the State of Virginia would no longer be their debtor. 1The papers referred to are printed anle, pp. 136,140.
Page 236
236 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS après tous ces faits Réitérés Le dit sieur M'Gomery s'est retiré et nous a laissé Sous le Commandement de Mr Rogers, qui nous a réduit dans la plus triste scituation Ce Second à pareillement fait tuer tous nos annimaux comme avoit cy devant fait Le dit Sr. M'Gomery A fait prendre le bois de Chauffage dans les Cours des habitants a force darmes, où l'un des enfants d'un magistra à Voulu luy représenter poliment quils ne dévoient pas prendre d'autorité; alors ce com- mandant de Concert avec Mr. Dodge Lont fait emprisonner et menacé Le père de pareille punition. Enfin voulant Jouer de Son reste à Vendu et brûlé en partie tous les pieux, ruiné tous les bâtiments d'un fort appartenant à des Citoyens de cet endroit, après touttes ces molestations, à Ecrit à la Cour civille, Etablie par Mr. Le Colonel tood, conformément aux Loix de L'hon- orable assemblés de Virginie, une Lettre diffamatoire disant quil Cas- seroit toutte la magistrature et fouleroit aux pieds, sils ne vouloient pas rendre Justice a Mr. Bentley qui à refusé le Serment de fidélité ainsy quil Est prescrit par L'acte de ladte assemblée. [Translation.] After ail thèse acts, which we have mentioned, the said M. Mont- gomery went away and left us under the command of M. Rogers, who reduced us to the saddest condition. This second commandant has also caused ail our animais to be killed as had been done before by the said M. Montgomery. He has caused the firewood to be forcibly seized in the very yards of the inhabitants. When one of the children of a magistrate saw fit to inform him politely that he had no right to take it, this command- ant, acting with M. Dodge, had this child put in prison, and they threatened the father with a similar punishment. In short, wishing to play to the limit, he sold and partially burned ail the pickets and tore down ail the structure of a fort belonging to some citizens of this place. After ail thèse impositions he wrote to the civil court, established by Colonel Todd according to the laws of the hon- orable Assembly of Virginia, a defamatory letter, saying that he would abolish the magistracy and crush it under his feet, if the magistrates did not wish to render justice to M. Bentley, who had refused to take the oath of allegiance as is prescribed by the act of the said Assembly.1 1 Sec ante, pp. 206, 211.
This page contains an image.
Page 237
PETITION TO THE GOVERNOR, MAY 4, 1781 237 Il convient d'eclercir Son Excellence des promesses qui ont Eté faittes aux suppliants par Le Sieur dodge proposé à Leffet pour payer les fournitures faittes aux troupes de Lestât, en marchandises à bonne composition, bien loins d'y satisfaire puis qu'il a servy dinstrument pour autorizer les plus grandes Vexations. Mr. Le Colonel de la Blâme Venant du Congrès muni d'une Com- mission dinspecteur général de toutte La Cavallerie dans Lamerique avec une Lettre de recommandation adressée aux suppliants, par Mr. fauler, qui Estoit cy devant notre Commandant, à présent, officier dans le service ameriquain au fort Pite, Laditte Lettre en datte du 25 Juin 1780; a Levé des volontaires pour allér au détroit combatre Lennemy et a trouvé apropos avec Laprobation de Mr. M'Gomery de prendre Le Pavillon françois pour se mettre à Labry des Insultes des Indiens mal Intentionnés, touttes les dépensés faittes pour cette Expédition, ont Eté aux frais des habitants et non a ceux de Lestât; Le Malheur à Voulu quil ait Eté défait après un coup Glorieux, notre confiance Estoit en luy puis quil Estoit chargé de nos affaires. [Translation.] It is fitting to enlighten your Excellency concerning the promises which were made to the suppliants by M. Dodge, who proposed to pay for the supplies, furnished the troops of the state, in merchandise on good terms; but he has been very far from giving satisfaction in this, since he served as an instrument to authorize the greatest vexations. Colonel de la Balme, who came from Congress, provided with a commission of inspecter gênerai of ail the cavalry in America, and with a letter of recommendation, dated June 25, 1780, addressed to the sup- pliants by M. Fowler, who was formerly our commandant and, at présent, an officer in the American service at Fort Pitt, has mustered some volunteers in order to go to Détroit to fight the enemy. He found it of advantage, with the approbation of M. Montgomery, to take the French flag so as to be protected against the attacks of hostile Indians. AU the expenses of this expédition were at the cost of the inhabitants and not at the cost of the state. Fortune decreed that he should be defeated after a glorious achievement. Our confidence was in him, since he was intrusted with our affaire.1 1 The papers arc printed in chap. v.
Page 238
238 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Mrs Rogers et dodge nous ont attribué un Crime en ce que Les Suppliants avoient Chargé a Mr d'un Ecrit adressé au ministre de france à filadelfie dans Lequel ils le prient de Sinteresser pour eux au Congrès comme il est àproximité et prendre même Leurs Interests pour mettre fin aux torts qui leurs Etoient fait par la troupe de Virginie tous ces mauvais traittements Sont La Cause que de nos meilleurs habitants Se Sont Retirer Sous le gouvernement Espagnol, Et d'autre qui attendent Votre Justice, préférant Les Loix despagne; a la tiranye et despotisme quils ont Souffert de la part de Vos Gens. A ces Causes et autres à Supplier de droit Les Suppliants Recourent à Vôtre Excellence à ce Qu'il Luy Plaise Examiner Leur Estât déplor- able et Comme ils sont réduit par des gens quils regardent Comme leurs Compatriotes, ainsy quil leur avoit Eté assuré dont ils se Sont trouvés déchûs par quantité de Calamitees Jusques au départ de Mr. Rogers Commandant; En Consequence ils Espèrent que pareille monopolle ne Régnera plus chéz eux a lavenir leur rendrés Justice du passé et ils [Translation.] MM. Rogers and Dodge accused the suppliants of committing a crime, because they entrusted to M. [de la Balme] a writing addressed to the minister of France at Philadelphia, in which they prayed him to act for their interests in Congress, as he was near, and to attempt to put a stop to the wrongs which were being practiced against them by the troops of Virginia.1 All these acts of tyranny are the causes that our best inhabitants have withdrawn to the Spanish government, and others, who were ex- pecting your justice, prefer Spanish laws to the tyranny and despotism which they have suffered at the hand of your people.3 On account of these causes and others, the suppliants have, in accord- ance with justice, come to your Excellency to petition that it may please you to examine their deplorable condition and how they are reduced by those persons whom they regarded as their fellow-citizens, as they had been assured, and by whom they found themselves oppressed by all sorts of calamities up to the time of the departure of M. Rogers, commandant. Consequently, they hope that a similar monopoly of powers will no longer reign, in the future, amongst them, and that you 1 See ante. p. 189. 2This exodus began as early as 1779, was greatly accelerated after 1787, and continued till the end of the century. 1II. Hist. Collections, 11., consult Index under "emigration."
This page contains an image.
Page 239
PETITION TO THE GOVERNOR, MAY 4) 1781 239 ne Cesseront de prier Pour La Conservation des précieux Jours de Votre Excellence charleville pere Daniel Blouin antoine buyat Nicola La chanse jean baptiste bauvais pierre preno Mariane CONANTE charles charleville jean baptiste janis Veuve delisle peltier fils Marque de jean LaRue Antoine janis Lachanse fr. charleville Bte Lachanse louis buyat antoine bauvais C DANIS LOUIS LONVAL AIMÉ BUYAT FRANÇOIS JANIS ANTOINE PELTIER Marque de Michel pelthie fr corset Barutel LONVAL Louis Brazaux Jean Choisser Vitale Bauvais godin Bte Charleville A Morin Janis HENRY ReLHTER MORENSIS [ Translation.] will render them justice for the past; and they will not cease to pray for the préservation of the precious days of your Excellency. CHARLEVILLE Sr. Daniel Blouin Antoine Buyat Nicolas Lachanse Jean Baptiste Bauvais Pierre Preno. Mariane Conante. Charles Charleville Jean Baptiste Janis Widow Delisle Pelletier Jr. Antoine Janis Lachanse Fr. Charleville Baptiste Lachanse Louis Buyat Mark of Jean La Rue ""Michel Pelthie Antoine Bauvais C. Danis Louis Lonval Aymé Buyat François Janis Antoine Pelletier Fr. Corset Barutel Lonval Louis Brazeaux. Jean Choisser Vital Bauvais Godin Baptiste Charleville A. Morin Janis Mark of Henry Relhier ""MORANCY
This page contains an image.
Page 240
240 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS AIMABLE GAGNIE JAQUE DEVEGNER JOSEPH MUYNE JOSEPH FORTIN Bte TOMURE pierre Damon Char. Delille joseph tibaux Bte Delille jean Bte jandron paul roume jean Bte Laperle Louy Delille jaques Cheynie Fransoi Langdo Jaque Labriere Joseph Doza Augustin lousin Nicola Canada picard antoine janis fils antoine lachanse Enregistré au greffe du district des Kaskaskias en la comtée des Illinois dependance a la province de la virginie paroisse de l'immaculée Conception de notre [dame] Dune page 125, 126, 127, Et 128 f° 59 par nous notaire publique et greffier dudit district Kaskaskias ce quatrieme may mil sept cent quatre vingt et un Carbonneaux Greffier [Translation. Aimable Gagné Jacques Devignais Joseph Muyne'Joseph Fortin Baptiste Thaumur'Pierre Damon'Char. Delisle'Joseph Tibaut Baptiste Delisle'Jean Baptiste GendronPaul Reaume "Jean Baptiste Laperle "Louis Delisle "Jacques Chenier "François Langdau "Jacques Labriere "Joseph Doza "Augustin Lousin "Nicolas Canada "Picard "Antoine Janis Jr. "Antoine Lachanse Recorded at the clerk's office of the District of Kaskaskia in the County of the Illinois, dependency of the province of Virginia, parish of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady, on pages 125, 126, 127, and 128, folio 59, by us, notary public and clerk of the said District of Kaskaskia, this fourth of May, 1781. Carbonneaux, Clerk.
This page contains an image.
Page 240
t8\t L Yit, a^^TA>-,ra -,
Page 240
SV K c. U.N1K 'V,' . I 'kVFt-N! R . '• i ' M"YSE !':-:."H rORTIN Iitr T....UIRE < PIKVIIIÎ ]<"!HN (-,IAr. Dr I.fUfc } ) .î TU Tl tAI .< H:» ltr'1u! jr \\ K ii. i\< r,v'. r <:! kie"vi a i i/r: 1 i !! .1 '.:..,• .i; :i i '• . . . i ;• ». e i ;•- .-;,'• \ \ .i .-. ::• ',• \'- '' ' i > . .1 i K i - ,; t î. t.; i-i ... i ' . ,. Enregi: u. Illinois dc|: Conceptio'i ''. ,. tr, ,' > ., . , nous notait. jPACSIMILK..OF SIGNATURE? TO THÉ PETITION To may mil i ,-...TUK GOY'KRNOR OF VIRGINIA;-MAY 4, 1781' • t '.* I -: ;> ' -' 1. ''',i» '» • |. .. a ,,. fK . h MTISIK ''• i..- vv., ''•-.LT. Rfat ;h - '\\ . . . \... Records . |, ;; ',- County <-f ihc I...:: . '.,. !.-',... , "f the Int-naculati < n. . - -,' aorl ij8, folio 50, h. u, .1 .'.ir\ , .! &MhHki.i. this f.ii':n, t.t M-.
This page contains an image.
Page 240
Blank page
Page 240
> !- ■ < VOA-7 I i ; v. 11 r « ■

L i \
This page contains an image.
Page 241
M'CARTY'S AND PREVOST'S MISSION, MAY 5, 1781 241 CONTRACT OF RICHARD M'CARTY AND PIERRE PREVOST WITH THE Inhabitants of Kaskaskia, May 5, 1781 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] Pardevant Le Notaire Public au pais des Illinois y resident Sous- signé En la paroisse de L'immaculée Conception De Notre Dame des KasKasKias Et les temoins cy après nommées Et aussy soussignés furent Presens En personnes les soussignés habitans de la ditte paroisse des KasKasKias d'une part. Et Messieurs Richard MaCarty Et Pierre Prevost d'autre part. Lesquels ont fait Entr'eux les accords Et conventions qui suivent, c'est a sçavoir que chacun des dits soussigné stipulant chacun En leur particulier s'oblige Et promette payer aux dits Sieurs Richard Ma- Carty Et Pierre Prevost par chaque tête d'habitant Et de negre Letout d'âge leur Cote part de la somme De Deux Cent Piastres En bon argent Sans être responsable Les uns pour les autres de la part qui lui Echera pour completter La ditte somme de deux cent Piastres En Bon argent, pour porter Les Justes Plaintes Des dits soussignés habitans [Translation.] Before the undersigned Notary Public of the country of the Illinois, therein residing, in the parish of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Kaskaskia, and the witnesses hereafter named and also under- signed, there appeared in person the undersigned inhabitants of the said parish of Kaskaskia on the one hand and MM. Richard M'Carty and Pierre Prevost1 on the other. Which parties have made the agreement and convention which follow: to wit, that each of the undersigned, each one stipulating for himself, promises and binds himself to pay to the said MM. Richard M'Carty and Pierre Prévost his share of the sum of two hundred piastres in good money apportioned among all the inhabitants and slaves of âge, without being responsible, one for another, for the part that may be lacking to complete the said sum of two hundred piastres in good money, in order that they may carry the just complaints of the 1 For a power of attorney given to Prcvost by the inhabitants of Cahokia, see IIl. Hist. Collections, ii.. 479. M Carty never reached Virginia, for he was killed by a band of Indians, while on his way thither. (hiich. Hist. Collections, xix.,646.) There is no evidence.also, that Prevost ever went to Virginia. Ail we know is that the papers that were carefully copied at this time, in order that the messengers might present them to the governor, came into the possession of Tardiveau (see post, p. 445, n. 2), and passed in time into the hands of Pierre Menard. III. Hist. Collections, ii., p. clii.
Page 242
24a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Pardevant Son Excellence Monsieur Le Gouverneur de L'Etat de la Virginie où devant le Congrès En cas de besoin, où devant tous autres qui auroient autorité D'En prendre Connoissance, suivant les pièces par Eux remis par les dits Soussignés habitans, portans tous les tords a Eux faits Par Messieurs Jean Montgomery, Thomas Bentley, Jean Rogers Et Jean dodge, tous frais qu'ils feront dans leur route Et par tout ailleurs seront debourcés par les dits Sieurs, Richard MaCarty Et Pierre Prévost sans rembourcement de la part de qui que ce soit. Les dits Soussignés habitans Promettent Payer la ditte Somme cy dessus ditte de Deux Cent Piastres En bon argent aux dits Sieur Richard MaCarty et Pierre Prevot a leur retour En ce village Soit En farine où peau de chevreuil rase le tout sur le pied d'argent de leur arrivée dans ce Dit village des KasKasKias a Evaluer Et qui ne leur sera Compté qu'aux charges clauses et conditions qu'ils rapporteront aux dits sous- signés la réponse des pièces Par les dits soussignés remises qui fera preuve Qu'ils se sont acquittés de leur mission Suivant le reçu qu'ils En ont délivré aux dits Soussignés habitans ce Jourd'huy Datte des [Translation.] undersigned inhabitants before his Excellency the Governor of the State of Virginia, or before Congress in case of need, or before any other body which may have authority to take cognizance thereof, in accordance with the documents delivered to them by the aforesaid and undersigned inhabitants, which documents relate the wrongs done to the inhabitants by MM. John Montgomery, Thomas Bentley, John Rogers, and John Dodge. AU expenses that may be incurred by them (M'Carty and Prévost) in their journey and otherwise shall be paid by the said MM. Richard M'Carty and Pierre Prévost without any reimbursement on the part of any one whomsoever. The aforesaid and undersigned inhabitants promise to pay the said sum of two hundred piastres in good money to the said MM. Richard M'Carty and Pierre Prévost on their return to this village, either in flour or in shaved deerskins, to be valuated at the rate of money at the time of their arrivai in this said village of Kaskaskia; and this account- ing will be made to them only on condition that they bring back to the said undersigned the answer to the documents remitted by the under- signed, which will be a proof that they have discharged their mission in accordance with the agreement which they have made with the under- >
This page contains an image.
Page 243
M'CARTY'S AND PREVOST'S MISSION, MAY 5, 1781 presentes fait et passé En L'Etude dudit notaire soussigné le cinquieme Jour du mois de May après Midy L'an mil sept cent quatre vingt et un En presence de Messieurs thimothé De munbrun Et Michel Per- rault temoins a ce requis qui ont signés Avec le dit notaire soussigné Et Les parties dont Les un ont fait leur marque ordinaire Lecture faite temoins Presens de la signature de Messrs McCarty & Prevost Mch Perrault Richard McCarty THIMOTHÉ DE MONBREUN TEMOIN PREVOST Les Sousignee Abitan Charleville Louis Brazeau Janis A Morin Lachanse antoine buyat Charles charleville picard Jean Choisseul Veuve delisle Daniel Blouin Vitale Bauvais preno F Charleville antoine Bauvais aime Buyat [Translation.] signed inhabitants on this day, the date of the present. Done and accepted in the office of the undersigned notary, the fifth day of May, in the afternoon, and the year one thousand seven hundred and eight- one, in the presence of Timothé de Monbreun and Michel Perrault, witnesses to this end summoned, who signed with the said notary undersigned, and the parties, some of whom made their customary mark. A reading was made. Witnesses present at the signing of MM. M'Carty and Prevost. Mch. Perrault Richard M'Carty Timothé de Monbreun, witness. Prevost . The undersigned inhabitants: Charleville Louis Brazeau Janis A. Morin Lachanse Antoine Buyat Charles Charleville Picard Jean Choisseul Widow Delisle Daniel Blouin Vital Bauvais Preno F. Charleville Antoine Bauvais Aymé Buyat
Page 244
244 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS f charleville Jean baptiste bauvais jaque moransy sa marque jean Bte La perle, sa marque fransoi Langdo, sa marque Joseph maroy, sa marque Bte Delisle, sa marque Louis Delisle, sa marque Bte. tomur, sa marque ANTOINE PELTIE ANTOINE PELTIE FIL LONVAL Louis Lonval Bapt Charlevtlle amable gagné, sa marque Joseph migno, sa marque Rich. Winston hanry Relhier, sa marque jo. Page godin joseph fortin, sa marque Pierre duviet, sa marque Nicolas Canada, sa marque joseph De La parc, sa marque Michelle peltie, sa marque Jean La [sic], sa marque Stanisles Levasseur Carbonneaux Greffier F. Charleville Jean Baptiste Bauvais Jaques Morancy, his mark. Jean Bte. Laperle, his mark. François Langdau, his mark. Joseph Maroy, his mark. Bte. Delisle, his mark. Louis Delisle, his mark. Bapt. Thaumur, his mark. Antoine Pelletier Antoine Pelltier, Jr. Lonval Louis Lonval Bapt. Charleville Amable Gagné, his mark Joseph Migno, his mark. Rich. Winston. Henry Relhier, his mark. Jo Page Godin. Joseph Fortin, his mark. Pierre Duviet, his mark. Nicolas Canada, his mark. Joseph De La Parc, his mark. Michelle Pelletier, his mark. Jean La [sic], his mark [Rue?] Stanislas Levasseur. Carbonneaux, Clerk.
This page contains an image.
Page 245
TO LA JEUNESSE, MAY 5, 1781 245 Richard Winston and Jacques Lasource to M. La Jeunesse, May 5, 1781 [M. C, T. MSS.— Atteste<! Copy.] Monsieur, Il vous plaira aussitot la presente reçue de remettre a Messieur MaCarty Et Prevot nos deputés pour representer nos Griefs à son Excellence Monsieur le Gouverneur de la Virginie toutes les Pieces que nous vous avons remises Et si vous les avés presentés à son Excellence vous leur remetterés la reponse que vous En avés reçue a seule fin que ces Messieurs Puisse prendre connoissance de ce qu'ils auront a faire comme Etans chargé de nos pouvoirs Nous avons L'honneur d'être très Parfaitement Monsieur Vos très humbles Et très obeissant serv" Rich. Winston jacques Lasource KasKasKiasle 5me May 1781. [Addressed:] M. La Jeunesse à Virginia [Translation.] Sir: As soon as you shall have received this letter, you will kindly remit to MM. M'Carty and Prevost, our deputies who are to present our causes of complaint to his Excellency the Governor of Virginia, all the documents which we have sent to you. If you have already presented them to his Excellency, you will remit to them the answer that you may have received, so that these gentlemen may know what they have to do, since they are intrusted with our power of attorney. We have the honor to be very respectfully, sir, Your very humble and very obedient servants, Rich. Winston. Jacques Lasource. Kaskaskia, May 5, 1781. [Addressed:] M. La Jeunesse,1 at Virginia. 1 At different times the French of Illinois sent agents to Virginia to represent their grievances and to collect the money due to them. La Jeunesse was, probably, such an agent.
Page 246
246 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Nicolas Janis to Capt. Fowler, May 5, 1781 [M. O, T. MSS.— A. L. S.] Monsieur J'ai recû Votre Lettre très gracieuse dans laquelle Vous marqués que cela nous Surprendroit peut-Etre au Contraire cela ne fait quaug- menter nôtre affection et attachement, Permettes que J'aye L'honneur de Nous faire mes Sincères remerciments de lattache que Vous nous marqués avoir pour nôtre pays, Tous Les citoyens de cet endroit vous ont bien regretté depuis vôtre départ et me Chargent Chacun en parti- culiier de vous assurer de leurs respecte. Vous avés Recommandé Mr de la Balme qui meritoit à tous Egards que Ion ut de lattention pour luy, nous lavons recû et favorizé du mieux qu'il nous a Eté possible, il a levé icy une Certaine quantité de Jeunes gens Volontaire disant quil alloit prendre Le Détroit en Voulant S'en revenir a été attaqué aux miamis par les Sauvages il a été tué et Duplassy aussi. Permettes que ma femme et ma patitte famille Se Joingnent à moy pour vous remercier et Made faulér très respectueusement de lattention quelle Veut bien avoir pour nous et de nous Croire que Je Seray avec Respect [Translation.] Sut: I received your very kind letter in which you note that perhaps it would surprise us. On the contrary it only augments our affection and attachment. Allow me to express my sincère thanks to you for the attachment which you testify to have for our country. Ail the inhabi- tants of this place hâve misscd you very much since your departure, and each one begs me to assure you of his respect. You recommended M. de la Balme as one, in every respect, worthy of our attention. We received him and favored him as best we could. He gathered quite a number of young volunteers, saying that he was going to capture Détroit. While attempting to come back he was attacked at Miami by the Indians, and he was killed, as was also Du- plasy. Permit that my wife and my small family join me in thanking you and Madame Fowler, very respectfully, for the regard which you are kind enough to have for us. Believe us, sir, with respect,
This page contains an image.
Page 247
JANIS TO FOWLER, MAY 5, 1781 247 Monsieur Votre très humble et très ob* serviteur 5 may 1781. Janis Je nai pas manqué de macquitter de la mission dont vous mavés Chargé envers le docteur Gibkins il se porte bien [Addressed:] Monsieur Fauler, Ecuyer Command1 Au Fort Duquêne [Translation.] Your very humble and very obedient servant, May 5, 1781. Janis I did not fail to comply with the mission to Doctor Gibkins, with which you entrusted me. He is very well. [Addressed:] M. Fowler, Esquire, Commandant Fort Duquesne.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 248
CHAPTER VII THE GOVERNMENT OF THE MAGISTRATES, MARCH, 1781, TO APRIL, 1782 William Shannon Writes to Clark — Joseph Labuxiere — Pierre Langlois Demands Explanations —Winston Defends his Right of Appointment — He Accuses the Court of Tyranny — Jaques La- source Defends the Court — A New Election of Magistrates. William Shannon to George R. Clark, May 21,1781 [Draper MSS., 51J52 — A. L. S.] Sullivans Station 21st of May 1781 Sir, Your express by Cap* Sullivan, to fort Jefferson, I forwarded as soon as it came to hand, the return of which you have enclosed, I learn by letters from that post, that they are in a starving Condition. & am sorry to inform you, that it is allmost out of my power, at present to relive them. Majr. Slaughter heving used the provisions purchased for that post, and injured our Credit, so much in this place that I find it allmost impossible to purchase anything without money, about three weeks ago, I sent a boat to Post S* Vincent with three hundred Gallons of whiskey, to purchas the skins you wrote for, & expect the return of them by the time you are here. Yesterday I sent Cap' Moore with two other Gentlm to the Countys of Lincoln, & Fayette, with instruc- tions to purchase what Beef Cattle, Dry & pickeled Beef, Butter, Cheese, corn &c. they possibly could, on the Credit of the State, Asuring them that the money woud shortly be paid. I shoud have went myself but Detained in hopes of purchasing One or two hundred bushels of Corn, for the relife of fort Jefferson, which I intend imededy to send With about eight or ten thousand weight of Beef which Slaugh- ter has not yet got into his hands. Cap* John Rogers,1 of the Light Dragoons, arrived here about six or seven weeks ago, from the Illinois with his whole Company, in good helth, there were with him Messers 1 After arriving at the Falls, Rogers wrote a letter to Governor Jefferson in which he defended his conduct. Consult Va. State Papers, ii., 76. 248 ^
This page contains an image.
Page 249
SHANNON TO CLARK, MAY 21, 1781 24g Dodge. Dejean. & Bentley on their way to Government, with several Indians, of which Battist the Kaskaskaia Chife was One.1 I can procure any quantity of salt you may want for your present expidition, it being the only article that can be purchased here on the Credit of the State. I most sincerely wish that you woud inform Govern- ment, that in case they woud furnish me with money, I Could purchase provisions in this Department, at allmost half the sum, I can for Credit, Instance corn & salt, ff Cash, corn can be had at forty Dollars Pr. Bushel, & for Credit eighty or one hundred, ff Cash salt, can be had at five or six hundred Dollars Pr. Bushel, & for Credit eight hundred or one thousand, and the same case with every species of provisions, since you left this place. I think if you were to inform Government of this that they woud remedy it, as the State is run Double expence, in not having money to purchase with,— As Col° Floyd write you I shall refer you to his letters for neuws, Capt. Sullivan will write you the Difficulties he labours under with regard to being furnished with the necessary gaunds & fottaugs2 for the men he has Imployed to build the state boats. I am Sir With due respect Your most Obed* Humbe Serv* Will: Shannon Commiss. of Gen1 I. D. P. S. please present my best Compliments to Capt Benjn Harri- son & inform him that I should be happy in his showing himself once more in the mess. W. S. N. B Mr. Vait who is Imployed to convey the present express is referred to you for pay W. S. [Addressed:] To the Honb1 Brigadier Gen1 Clarke Pittsburgh or Else- where at Pr express (On publick service) 1 Bentley went to Virginia and petitioned the Assembly for payment of money owing him. Consult Va. State Papers, U., 238; Jour, of House of Delegates, under dates, June 18, 34, 1783. 2 The names are plainly written, but the tools have not been identified.
Page 250
350 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Richard Winston to Janis, Magistrate at Kaskaskia, May 23, 1781 [K. MSS.— A. L. S.] Monsieur, Comme Les hommes qui ont été accusé dernièrement d'avoir volé des Cheveaux tant De L'état, que des Particuliers, viennent d'arriver, Il Est Essentiellement Nécessaire quil soit tenu un Extraordinaire aujourd'huy L'état étant plaignant aux fin de faire toutte Enquête Et connaître la nature de la cause, cest pourquoy Je vous prie de faire communiquer La présente a Messieurs Les Magistrats, Et Le plus promptement possible. Jay Lhonneur detre Votre très humble Serviteur Rich Winston KasKasKia 23me May 1781 [Addressed:] A Monsieur Janis, Magistrat aux Kaskaskias [Translation.] Sir: As the men, who were lately accused of having stolen some horses not only from the state but also from individuals, have just arrived, it is of the greatest importance that a spécial session be held today, the state being the plaintiff, in order to make ail inquiry and to know the nature of the cause. It is for this reason that I beg you to communicate the contents of this letter to Messieurs the Magistrates, and that, as quickly as possible. I have the honor to be always, sir, Your very humble and very obedient servant, Richard Winston. Kaskaskia, May 23, 1781. [Addressed:] Monsieur Janis,1 Magistrate at Kaskaskia. 1 Janis was probably at this tirac président of the Court, but sec pp. 225, 245, 254. On account of the Tossof the record-book, it is more difficult to follow the personnel of the Kaskaskia Court than that of the Court of Cahokia, whose records are almost complète. Sec 1U. Ilisi. Collections, ii. • - - S
This page contains an image.
Page 251
SMITH'S PETITION, MAY 31, 1781 351 Pétition of Henry Smith, May 31, 1781. [K. MSS.— A. L. S.] a la Cour Respectable du District des Kaskaskias aux Illinois Messieurs, J'ay l'honneur de vous présenter ma deffence sur Pacti[on] que Mr le Major Williams a produit Contre moy a la Dernière cour, con- sernant un cheval par luy reclamé en faveur de l'état de Virginie, qui a été trouvé en Possession de nicolas smite le major Williams et Ken- nedy ont tenu cette affaire cy Secrette que Je ne l'ay après quenviron une demy heure avant qu'ils Paye pris, j'ay été allarmé en premier lieu n'ayant point signé la vente que j'en avois à ni smithe comme il n'avoit pas achevé de Me payer, mais après avoir Considéré j'ay pencé que Mr Gion etoit Celui qui devoit me rembourser ayant acheté Le Cheval de Lui M'ns [?] Guion m'ayant apris quil n'avoit pas pris le Cheval Par Des voyes régulières il n'a point voulu me le payer avant quil ne Soit L'égallement prouvé quelque tems après un jeune homme qui demeur chez moy étant a chercher Des cheveaux m'apris qu'il avoit attrapé celui-là parmi les Miens, Je le pris donc en possession [Translation.] To the Honorable Court of the District of Kaskaskia in the Il- linois. Gentlemen: I have the honor to présent to you my defence in the suit which Major Williams has brought, in the last Court, against me concerning a horse which was found in the possession of Nicholas Smith and which the plaintiff reclaims for the State of Virginia. Major Williams and Kennedy have kept this affair so secret that I learned of it only about half an hour before they took the horse. I was alarmed in the first place, because I had not signed the sale of it that I had made to Nicholas Smith, because he had not yet paid me; but after I considered it, I thought that M. Guion was the one who ought to reimburse me, since I bought the horse from him. M. Guion informed me that he had not taken the horse in a regular way and therefore he did not wish me to pay him until the tide to him was legally proved. Some time thereafter a young man, who lives at my house informed me that in looking for some horses he had caught this one among mine. I, then, took pos-
Page 252
252 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS pour le Garder Jusqu'à ce qu'il Soit prouvé être aux état par des voyes Régulière de Justice, par ce que mr Kennedy a refusé de Prouver que les Etat nen avoit reçeu aucun profit Le Colonel montgomery qui Commandoit icy en labsence du Col. Clark avoit droit de vendre changer et trafiquer les cheveaux et autres Effets de l'état Sans que les personnes qui les achetoient en fussent responsable, puisque L'état luy en avoit donné le pouvoir, cest a luy seul a qui ils peuvent S'en prendre Et non pas aux Particuliers, car ce seroit une injustice dont l'état ne permettroit nullement. Je suis Prêt à vous prouver messieurs, que le Colonel Montgomery à vendu ou trafique ce même cheval a Mr Presgers [sic] Et Bershars [ ?] a Mr Williams, et que Mr Williams à offert une Somme au nomé Bond, il y eu un an l'hiver passé pour luy prendre, mais ne l'ayant peu trouve ils l'on crû mort ce qui à fait que le marché entre Williams et Breshers à manqué mais L'ayant trouvé après Breshers la vendu à Sergt meriwethers, celuicy la vendue a Croucher, Croucher à Guion, Et guion a moy, Je vous observe que ce cheval n'a point Etampe de L'Etat comme il paroit par mon marché Je vous prie de considérer Messieur Sy la vente qui en a Eté fait le [Translation.] session of it to keep it until the title to it was proved, by the regular course of justice, to belong to the state, because M. Kennedy refused to prove that the state had received no profit from it. Colonel Mont- gomery, who commanded here in the absence of Colonel Clark, had the right to sell, exchange, and traffic in the horses and other property of the state without making the people who bought them responsible therefor, since the state had given him the power so to do. It is he alone against whom they can make suit and not against the individuals, for that would be an injustice which the state would in no way permit. I am ready to prove to you, gentlemen, that Colonel Montgomery sold or trafficked this same horse to M. Brashers[?] and Brashers to M. Williams, and that Mr. Williams offered it, a year ago last winter, to the named Bond for a price, but not long after they found it as they believed dead and this caused the failure of the sale between Williams and Brashers; after it recovered, Brashers sold it to Croucher, Croucher to Guion, and Guion to me. I call your attention to the fact that the horse does not have the state brand, as appears by my bill of sale. I pray you to consider, gentlemen, whether the sale which Colonel Mont-
This page contains an image.
Page 253
SMITH'S PETITION, MAY 31, 1781 253 Colonel Montgomery qui est venu de l'un a l'autre Jusqua Moy ne doit pas mautorisé à le garder à mois que Mr Williams où son procur- eur ne donne des preuves que le vendeur na point reçeu de valleur pour ce dit cheval alors Jaurois recours Sur celui qui me la vendue, vous voyés messieurs ma bonne foy j'ay bien payé ce cheval qui a été légitime- ment vendu comment puis-je le perdre dans [sic] Sans Injustice, Enfin Je suis et seray toujours prêt a me Conforme à vos ordre dans touttes ocasion et suis avec tout le respect et attachment d'un vray Citoyen Messieurs votre très humble et très ob. Serviteur, Henry Smith KasKasKias le 3ime May 1781 vu la requête cy dessus et des autres parts par la Court du Dis- trict des KasKasKias la Quelle dit qu'il n'est pas de sa Compétence De prendre aucune connoissance des affaires qui concernent L'Etat vu le protest du Sr Jean Gerault procureur au dit district pour Letat de la Virginie En datte du Vingt septième septembre Mil sept cent soixante et dix neuf En conséquence la ditte Court renvoyé La Con- noissance de cette Cause par devant les auditeurs des Etats Généraux [Translation.] gomery has made and which has passed from one to another up to myself ought n^t to authorize me in keeping it, unless M. Williams or his attorney give proof that the seller has not recieved a valuable con- sidération for the said horse, in which case I should have recourse against him who sold it to me. You see, gentlemen, my good faith. I have paid goods for this horse which has been legally sold. How can I lose it without injustice? Finally I can and shall be always ready to conform to your orders on ail occasions and I am with ail the respect and attachment of a true citizen your very humble and very obedient servant. Henry Smith. Kaskaskia, May 31, 1781. The Court of the District of Kaskaskia having examined the péti- tion, above and on the other side, déclares that it is not compétent to take any cognizance of suits that concern the state in view of the protest of M. Jean Girault, attorney in the said district for the State of Virginia, dated September 27, 1779. Consequently the said Court sends the
Page 254
254 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS aux qu'ils la connoissance seule En appartient Mandons &c fait Et donné En L'audience dudit district Le Jeudy trente et unième May mil sept cent quatre vingts et un. JACQUES LASOURCE [Endorsed:] Requête du Sieur henry Smith du 6me May 1781. No. 68. [Translation.] cognizance of this cause to the auditors of the Estâtes General to whom alone cognizance belongs. We order, etc., Done and given in the audience chamber of the said district, Thursday, May 31, 1781. Jacques Lasource [Endorsed:] Pétition of M. Henry Smith, May 6, 1781, No. 68. Joseph Labuxiere to Jacques La Source, Président of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 1, 1781 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] A Monsieur Jacques la Source président de la cour du district des Caskakias. Monsieur, Le Sr Labuxiere Nommé par Mr Le governeur Civil procureur de LEtat de Virginie En la comté des ilinois par la transmission que Mr Girault luy a fait de cette Charge vous a présente Sa commission signé du d* sr Girault de Mr Le gouverneur Civil, de vous Monsieur et de deux autres Magistrat tendante a lenregistrement En ce greffe Le greffier vient de lui dire quil faloit quil vous présente une requête pour que lenregistrement Eû lieu Cest En consequance Monsieur que je [Translation.] To M. Jacques Lasource, Président of the Court of the District of Kaskaskia. Sir: M. Labuxiere, named by the civil governor attorney for the State of Virginia in the County of Illinois by the transfer which M. Girault made to him of this office, has presented to you his commission signed by the said M. Girault, by the civil governor, by you, sir, and by two other magistrates, for the purpose of registering it in this office. The clerk has just told him it was necessary that he présent to you a péti- tion that the registration may take place. It is in conséquence of this
This page contains an image.
Page 255
LABUXIERE TO LASOURCE, AUGUST i, 1781 255 vous suplie dordonner lenregistrement Cejourdhuy ayant Besoin de ma commission pour Raison a mon ministère a St. Louis le 1er aoust 1781. Labuxiere Vu la requête cy dessus et des autres Parts par nous Juges a paix et président de la Court Du District &c. le Sieur Labuxiere aura la bonté de nous Exhiber la Commission de son commettant pour En faire La Confrontation au paravant de L'admettre a LEnregistrement Et pour provision demeurera La ditte commission au Greffe pour y faire Droit Jusqu'à ce que celle de son commettant nous soit Exhibé Donné En notre auditoire aux KasKasKias le premier aoust mil sept cent quatre vingt et un Jacques Lasource il ordonné au greffié de Remetre La Commission au Sr. LaBussiere san lan Registre, au Cas août 1781. Jacques Lasource [Endorsed:] 1781 Requête du Sr. Labuxiere tendante a LEnregistre- ment de sa commission de procureur générale du ^ome aoust. [Translation.] that I beg you to order a registration of it this day, as I have need of my commission on account of my duties at St. Louis. August 1, 1781. Labuxiere.1 The pétition, above and on the other page, has been examined by us, justice of the peace and président of the Court of the District, etc. M. Labuxiere will have the kindness to show us the commission from his principal in order to make a confirmation thereof, before it is ad- mitted for registration and provisionally the said commission shall remain in the clerk's office to do justice to it, until that of his principal shall have been exhibited to us. Given in our office at Kaskaskia, August 1, 1781. Jacques Lasource The clerk is ordered to remit the commission to M. Labuxierre with- out registering it. Kaskaskia, August, 1781. Jacques Lasource [Endorsed:] 1781, Pétition of M. Labuxiere for the registration of his commission of attorney gênerai, August 30. 1 For biographical notice of Joseph Labuxiere, consult lit. Hist. Collections, ii.( 625, n. 16. Many other notices of him wiil be found by Consulting the Index. His commission as state's attorney is printed Ibid., p. 487. Consult also the Index of this volume.

This page contains an image.
Page 256
256 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS LANGLOIS TO THE MAGISTRATES OF THE COURT OF KASKASKIA, AugUSt 16, 1781. [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] A la Respectable Court du district des Caskakias &c. &c. Messieurs, Le Soussigné avoit ignoré jusqu'à ce présent jour quil ne pouvoit y avoir qu'un Seul notaire Comme il a vu lui même Sous le Règne des français & autres, ne pensant point qu'on auroit Enfeindre cette Cou- tume C'est pourquoy Sil est possible messieur de pouvoir lui octroyer cet place pour lequel il S'offre de passer a l'examins par qui conque voudroit l'interroger si toute fois cet charge Se peut accorder a ceux qui La demande n'eyant jamais vu cet Emploi vacant pour avoir eu lieu de la pouvoir exiger, non plus qua ce présent jour quoyque ce pais ne faisoit Ensemble qu'un Seul district Et Beau Coupe plus Etandu Et peuplé qua ce jour, quelque fois Le Notaire de ce pais nomoit un clerc dans un autre village pour le Représenté C'est La grâce qu'espère [Translation.] To the Honorable Court of the District of Kaskaskia, etc. Gentlemen: The undersigned was ignorant up to the présent day that there could be more than a single notary,1 as he has himself seen under the régime of the French and others, and he did not think that this custom had been broken. That is why he pétitions for the office, if it is possible, gentlemen, to grant him this place; and he offers to submit to an examination by anyone who may wish to ask him questions. If, moreover, this office can be granted to those who demand it and, although he has never seen this situation vacant any more than at this présent day so that he could have had an opportumity to demand it,— although [in former times] this whole country made only a single dis- trict much more extended and populated than at présent, sometimes the notary of this country did name a clerk in another village to 1 Literally: "that there could be only a single notary," which docs not fit the context,and is not in accord with facts. There was but one notary under the French. The two letters of Langlois (the second, post, p. 258) are very difficult to interpret, ifnot impossible. They are evidently related to the letters passing between the Court and Winston, printed on the following pages. From Winston's placard (post, p. 260) we learn that the Court, on August 16, first heard of the appointment of a second notary by Winston.
This page contains an image.
Page 257
WINSTON TO LASOURCE, AUGUST 17, 1781 257 Le Suppliant que vous lui accorderont sa demande Et Vous i sere droit. P. Langlois Au Caskakias, le i6ie aoust 1781. Vu Par la Court du District des KasKasKias La requête cy dessus Et des autres part laqu'elle déboute Le demandeur vu qu'il est nommé Par le public à la Magistrature Mandons &c fait et donne En L'au- dience le Jeudy seizième aoust mil sept cent quatre vingts Et un. Janis [Endorsed:] Requête de Mr Pierre Langlois du i8me aoust 1781. [Translation.] . represent him — it is the grâce that the suppliant hopes and [he prays] that you will grant him his pétition; and you will do justice therein. P. Langlois. At Kaskaskia, August 16, 1781. The pétition, above and on the other side, has been examined by the Court, which has refused the plaintiff, since the public elects to the magistracy. We order, etc. Done and given at the session, Thurs- day, August 16, 1781. Janis [Endorsed:] Pétition of M. Pierre Langlois of August 18, 1781. Richard Winston to Jacques Lasource, August 17,1781 [K. MSS.—A. L. S.] i7me Aoust 1781 Monsieur, Je vien de recevoir un plaint par le Sieur Labuxiere fils contre Monsieur Carbonneaux qui ne veut pas lui remetre la Commission que je lui a donner; lui authorisé de setablir un Notaire dans ce District &ca laquelle j'ai Par Politesse Envoyé par devant la Court pour lui [Translation.] Sir: I have just received a complaint from M. Labuxiere, junior, against M. Carbonneaux, who is unwilling to return to the former the commis- sion which I have given him, by which he was authorized to establish a notariat in this district etc. I sent this commission out of politeness
Page 258
258 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS fair prêter le Serment d'office je vous prie Monsieur de vouloir Bien Ordonner a Mr Carbonneaux de lui remetre la dte Commission car il n'a pas Etoit [sic] Présenté la au Desin de le Déposé. Je croi quil est permis a tous les hommes detre leur Dépositaire et quils Sont nullement Tennu a Déposé Chez Carbonneau chose a eux apartenant, voicy le deuxième marque que Mr Carbonneaux nous donne de Cobien [sic] il est Jaloux de la Capacity Supérieur de Monsieur Labuxiere J'ai L'honneur detre avec Considération Monsier Votre Très Humbl & Obes. Serviteur Rich. Winston [Addressed:] A Monsieur Jacque Lasource, Près. [Translation.] to the Court so that the Court might have him take the oath of office. I pray you, sir, to consent to order M. Carbonneaux to return the said commission to M. Labuxiere, for it was not presented with the design of being deposited. I believe that it is permitted every man to choose their depositary and that they are not bound to deposit their belongings with Carbonneaux. This is the second mark that M. Carbonneaux has given us of how jealous he is of the superior capacity of M. Labuxiere. I have the honor to be with considération, Sir, your very humble and obedient servant, Rich. Winston. [Addressed:] To M. Jacques Lasource, Président. Pierre Langlois to Richard Winston, Augusi 17, 1781. [K. MSS.— First part A. D. S., second part D. S.] A Monsieur Richard Winston Lte Gouverneur de la Comtee des illinois &ca &ca &ca. Monsieur, Pierre Langlois a lhonneur de vous expose queyant Représenté a la [Translation.] To M. Richard Winston, Lieutenant-Governor of the County of the Illinois etc. Sir: Pierre Langlois has the honor to make known to you, that he has
This page contains an image.
Page 259
LANGLOIS TO WINSTON, AUGUST 17, 1781 259 Cour de le distric, que Le numbre de magitra Etoit Complet Comme Etoit lorsque Mr Le Collonel totd [sic] a Etabli La Court, Et que Le nombre Etoit sufissant de six pour mentenir La justice, N'eyant auc'uns plasce vacquante, pour pouvoir aubligér auc'une personne a Entrer au charge, et lorsquil aura place vacante La pluralité des Suffrage du public an décidera. Cest pourquoy le Suppliant vous Supplie Sy il est a votre pouvoir de faire plus que celui qui vous a Subsitué a son lieu & plasce vous En ordonnerai ce que de Raisons leva. Et vous Supplie monsieur de men honnorer d'une Réponse afin que je puisce prouver que je ne fui point de men Soumetre au loix qui nous gouverne et temoignié le zel dont je Suis prêtre a Servir Le public lorsque Sacera [sic] Celong la loix Et le Suppliant espérant que vous i fesce droit. Au Kaskakia ce 17e aoust 1781. Pre Langlois. Vue la Request in Lautre part et ayent duement Examiné le contenue Renvoyon le suplient pardevent la Court a qui Ceulle [sic] je Donnerai de preve de mon pouvoir ainsi que de preve que je nai Jamais Prétendue [Translation.] represented to the Court of the District that the number of magistrates was complète as it was when Colonel Todd established the Court, and that the number of six was sufficient to maintain justice, and that there was no vacant place so that any person could be obliged to enter into office; and also that, when there should be a vacant place, the plurality of public votes should décide thereon. This is the reason that the sup- pliant pétitions you to ask, if it is in your power to do more than he who substituted you in his place and stead. You will order concerning it what reason demands. And I urge you, sir, to honor me with an answer concerning it so that I can prove that I do not flee from submission to the laws which govern us, and that I may give witness of the zeal with which I am ready to serve the public when it shall be according to the law; and the suppliant hopes that you will do justice therein. At Kaskaskia, August 17, 1781. Pierre Langlois. Having seen the pétition on the other side and having duly examined the contents, we send the suppliant before the Court, to whom alone I will give proof of my power as well as proof that I have never pretcnded
Page 260
26o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS de agire contre le Code de loix. le présent (Comme Etent a mois addresse) Pouroit Servir a acumuler et augmenter le Greffe. au Kaskaskias 31™ Aoust 1781. Rich. Winston [Translation.] to act against the code of laws. The présent (as being addressed to me) can serve for hoarding in and augmenting the record-office. Kaskaskia, August 31, 1781. Richard Winston. Placard Concerning Office of Notary by Richard Winston, August 30, 1781 [K. MSS.— Attested Copy.] Nous Richard Winston Lieutenant de Comté faisant fonctions de Gouverneur Civil en toute la Comté des Ilinois et ses dépendances. L'Etat de Virginie n'ayant Rien tant a coeur que de Faciliter tous Ses Sujets et Surtout les Emigrans dans une Entière liberté d'acquérir et de posséder ce qui leur est le plus avantageux pour leur l'Etablissement afin de devenir util a l'Etat Et a la Société En Se procurant les ressource de la vie, et que tous les colons jouissent d'une parfaite Et Entière liberté de Confiance dans leurs Conventions et les nécessaires au repos et a la tran- quilité des Citoyens Et Empêcher de tout notre pouvoir Suivant linten- tion de l'Etat un commencement de despotisme qui paroit couloir s'intro- duire dans cette Comté En gernant [sic] Et captivant d'une authorité [Translation.] We, Richard Winston, County Lieutenant and acting Civil Governor in ail the County of the Illinois and its Dependences. The State of Virginia holds nothing so dear as granting facility to ail her subjects and especially the immigrants to acquire and possess in full liberty whatever is the most advantageous for their establishment, so that they may become useful to the state and society by procuring the means of livelihood. [She desires also] that ail the colonists enjoy, with a perfect and entire liberty, confidence in their contracts and the necessi- ties for the repose and tranquillity of citizens. [We also wish] to prevent with ail our power, according to the intention of the state, a beginning of despotism, which, as appears, it is desired to introduce into this country by constraining and holding captive, with an absolute authority and in
This page contains an image.
Page 261
PLACARD BY WINSTON, AUGUST 30, 1781 261 absolue au mepris des loix de l'etat, les particuliers qui Sont dans le Cas de Contracter, les obligeant de metre leur Confiance En une Seule per- sonne a la quelle ils Sont forcés davoir recour par le deffaud d'un deux notaire a la nomination duquel le Sr Jacques laSource ci devant presi- dant de la Cour de ce district Sans Examiner les pretentions que tous les Citoyens ont a la liberté Et sans aucunes raisons S'est oposé En faisant Retenir dans Son greffe contre la confiance publique Et les droits de la Liberté, la commission de Notaire que nous avons ci devant donné au Sr joseph antoine Labuxiere fils qui la lui avoit presentée En pleine Cour et assemblée de magistrats laudience tenante le 16 de ce mois laquelle com- mission led* Jacques laSource presidant a refusé de faire rendre aud* sr Labuxiere fils par son greffier et son notaire telle requisition que nous lui en ayons fait verballement Et par Ecrit, laquelle commission, Eman- ant de nous par le pouvoir qui nous en a été transmit par l'Etat de Virginie Et que le Sr joseph antoine labuxiere fils lui avoit presenté la cour tenante pour faire Son Sermant doffice ayant ci devant prete celui de fidelité et ayant nous meme par une pure deference pour la cour renvoyé a elle le Serment dofice, que nous sommes en droit de Recevoir [Translation.] contempt of state law, individuals who are about to enter into contract by obliging them to place their confidence in a single person to whom they are compelled to have recourse for lack of two notaries. Mr Jacques Lasource, heretofore president of the Court of this district, without examining the pretentions that all citizens have to liberty and without any reason, has opposed the nomination [of a second notary] by causing to be retained in his clerk's office, against public trust and the rights of liberty, the notary's commission which we have heretofore given to M. Joseph Antoine Labuxiere Jr., who had presented it to him in full court and assembly of magistrates during the session of the sixteenth of this month.1 The said Jacques Lasource, president, has refused to have re- turned by his clerk and notary this commission to the said M. Labuxiere Jr., in spite of the requisition which we have made upon him both ver- bally and by writing. This commission emanated from us by the power which has been transmitted to us by the State of Virginia ; and M. Joseph Antoine Labuxiere Jr. had presented it to the Court, while in session, in order to take the oath of office, having already taken that of fidelity. 1 Sec antc. p. 257, scq.
Page 262
363 ILLINOIS H1STORICAL COLLECTIONS Comme une pareille détention de pièces est une duplicité atroce, qui ote la confiance des citoyens En retenant Et Séquestrant les papiers que Ion présente a la cour Sous la Bonne foy publique ainsi quil a Eté fait de la commission dud* Sr Joseph antoine Labuxiere ce qui est une inova- tion manifeste a la liberté et au règlement du conseil d'Etat de Virginie qui deffend expressément a tous juges de Saroger un pouvoir Suprême et despotique En Sa par. les fondement de la liberté publique, c'est pour empêcher les funestes effets qu'une pareille authorité qui dérive d'un despotism inhumain pouroit Causer dans les familles En leur Ola [MS. torri] le choix de la liberté et de la Sûreté publique que nous avons pris le Sage parti de faire tous nos efforts pour Ecarter et anéantir tout ce qui est contraire a la liberté du peuple. En Nommant un segond Notaire public pour la facilité des citoyens, et connoissant la conduite irréproch- able dud1 sr. Joseph antoine Labuxiere fils Son zèle et affection pour se rendre util a l'Etat et au Service du public et Sa capacité nous lui avons permis et permetons au Nom de l'état de Virginie d'Etablir un notaria En cette ville des CasKaKias, pour en qualité de Notaire public en toute la [Translation.] [He did this] because we ourselves, out of simple déférence to the Court, sent to it the oath of office, which we have a right to receive. Since such a détention of documents is an atrocious act of duplicity; for it robs the people of confidence, when papers, which are presented to the Court in good public faith as was the case with the commission of the said M. Joseph Antoine Labuxiere, are retained and sequestered, and since it is a manifest innovation on liberty and the régulation of the council of state of Virginia which expressly forbids ail judges to arrogate to themselves a suprême and despotic power, [and since such action undermines] the foundations of public liberty; it is to prevent the sad conséquences that such an authority, derived from an inhuman despot- ism, might cause in families by [taking?]from them free choice and public surety, that we have chosen the wise part of using ail our efforts to divert and bring to naught ail that is contrary to the liberty of the people, by naming a second notary public for the facility of the citizens. And since we know the irreproachable conduct of the said M. Joseph Antoine La- buxiere Jr., and [recognize] his zeal, his capacity, and his désire to render himself useful to the state and the public service, we have permitted and do permit him, in the name of the State of Virginia, to establish a notariat
Page 263
PLACARD BY WINSTON, AUGUST 30, 1781 263 comté des ilinois passer et recevoir tous contracts, civil, actes invantaires partages, ventes, volontaires Et généralement tout ce qui est de la Com- petance d'un Notaire Et dont il sera requis par les public afin que tout les peuple jouisse d'une entière Et pure liberté de mètre Sa confiance en tel notaire public quil jugera a propos et quil Soit Entièrement libre Et dégagé de toute contrainte pour le Secret des familles Et de leur Tran- quilité, En concequance nous authorisons de ce jour led' Sr Joseph antoine Labuxiere fils dexercer ladite Charge sans troubles ni empeche- mens Et Sans quil Soit Besoin de plus ample réception, prions le public d'ajouter foy Et confiance En Ses actes En se conformant aux anciens usages des notaires, déclarons avoir Reçu le Sermant doffice dud1 Sr Labuxiere fils Et afin que le public ne lignore Et quil Soit libre de Choisir tel notaire qu'il voudra pour la Massation [?] de ses actes nous avons fait publier et aficher la présente commission au Nom de l'état et icelle Scellée Et signée de notre main aux Caskaskia le 30 aoust 1781. Pour copie afichée et publiée Signé a loriginal Winston. [Translation.] in this village of Kaskaskia, so that, in the quality of public notary, he can draw up and receive, throughout the whole County of the Illinois, ail contracts, civil acts, inventories, divisions of estate, voluntary sales, and, in gênerai, do everything that is within the power of a notary and for which he shall be required by the public, in order that ail people may enjoy with an entire and pure liberty, [the right] of placing their confi- dence in such public notary as they please, and that he be entirely free and clear from ail constraints [for serving] the private affairs of families and [preserving] their tranquillity. Consequently we authorize the said M. Joseph Antoine Labuxiere Jr. to exercise from this day forth the said functions without let or hindrance and without the necessity of more ample installation; and we pray the public to place faith and confidence in his instruments, when he conforms to the ancient usages of notariés. We déclare that we have received the oath of office from the said M. Labuxiere Jr. and in order that the public may not be ignorant and may be free to choose such notary, as it shall wish, for the drafting of its in- struments, we have caused the présent commission to be published and posted in the name of the state and have sealed and signed the same with our hand. At Kaskaskia, August 30, 1781. (Signed on the original) Winston. Copy to be posted and published.
Page 264
2Ô4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Cette present affiche ayant été apporté au Greffe par les s" antoine Bauvais et Michel Godin lesquels ont dit lavoir trouvé par terre et que les chiens la dechiroit pour Manger le pain qui Etoit au coins qu'une partie du peuple etoit present qui En ont demandé Lecture Laquelle leur a été fait par le Greffier Soussigné dont les sr Jacques Lasource a requis que la presente Reste au Greffe Pour sa justification jusqu'a ce qu'il y ait de la justice Etabli lequel a signé avec nous Greffier soussigné le premier jour septembre a huit heure du matin mil sept Cent quatre vingt et un temoins Presents Pre Langlois Jacques Lasource Barutel Carbonneaux Greffier [Endorsed:] affiché posée a la porte de LEglise par le sr. Winston en faveur du sr. Labuxiere fils du 3ime aoust 1781 [Translation.] This present placard has been brought to the clerk's office by MM. Antoine Bauvais and Michel Godin who said that they have found it on the ground and that the dogs were tearing it in order to eat the bread, which was in the corner;1 and [they further said] that some people were present who demanded the reading of it, which was made by the under- signed clerk, from whom M. Jaques Lasource has required that the present placard remain at the office for his justification, until there shall be justice concerning it; and he has signed with us the undersigned clerk, September 1, 1781, at eight A. M. Witnesses present Pierre Langlois Jaques Lasource Barutel Carbonneaux, Clerk [Endorsed:] Placard posted on the door of the church by M. Winston in favor of M. Labuxiere Jr., August 31, 1781. 1 This is the meaning of the French; but why bread and the placard should be brought into relation a not cl car. The corner may be a corner of the church building instead of a part of the placard.
Page 265
LASOURCE TO MAGISTRATES, SEPTEMBER i, 1781 265 Jacques Lasource to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, September i, 1781. [K. MSS.— A. L. S.] A la Respectable Cour du District des KasKasKias &c &c &c Messieurs, Jacques LaSource ayant cydevant En sa qualité de président de cette cour arrêté la requête du Sr. antoine labuxiere fils tendante a ce qu'il plut a laditte cour recevoir son serment pour être Examiné tant pour sa capacité que pour son âge suivant L'ordonnance de Laditte cour; ne pouvant être Commissioné sans avoir le suffrage publique Le sr. Richard Winston ayant Ecrit au soussigné de faire remettre audit Sr Labuxiere fils sa requête ce que Ledit soussigné n'a voulu faire pas Qu'a ce que Ledit sr Winston lui ait appointé les pouvoirs En pleines cour Pour y être Examiné sils sont conformé a la loix de la Virginie qui dit que toutes charges publiques doit être donné par les suffrages du peubles Et qu'ayant passé ce Jourd'huy devant Leglise de ce lieu y ayant appercu un affiche qui decaracterisse le soussigné C'est pour ce Con- sidérés Messieurs Qu'il vous plaise ordonner que l'affiche Qui est a la [Translation.] To the Honorable Court of the District of Kaskaskia, etc. Gentlemen: Jacques Lasource wishes to inform you that, as président of this Court, he sometime ago stayed the pétition of M. Antoine Labuxiere Jr., in which he prayed that the said Court might see fit to receive his oath in order that he might be examined not only as to his capacity but also as to his âge, in accordance with the ordinance of the Court, since a commission cannot be issued without holding a public élection; and that M. Richard Winston wrote to the undersigned to have him return the pétition to the said M. Labuxiere Jr., which the undersigned refused to do unless the said M. Winston should refer the commission to a full court for examination as to whether it conformed to the law of Virginia, which says that ail public offices must be given by the votes of the people; and [he wishes to inform you further] that he passed today before the church of this place and perceived thereon a public notice which defamed the undersigned. In considération of this, gentlemen, may it please you to order that the public notice, which is on the door
Page 266
266 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS porte de LEglise soit apporté a la cour et levé, que le sr Winston soit Condamné a apporter ses pouvoirs a la ditte cour comme Enticipant sur les droits du peuples et voulant y Introduire le dispotisme et voulant fruster les anciennes coutume et aller contre le droits du peuples tel comme il lui a Ecri Et que le serment qu'il a reçu du sr. Labuxiere fils soit déclaré nul et n'aye aucune validité Et que la surditte cour aye a affiché que les actes que recevera le dit sr. Labuxiere fils ne seront d'aucune validité comme n'ayant pas l'âge requis chose contraire aux loix et de faire paroitre Ledit Sr Labuxiere fils pour lui déclarer que son serment ainsy que sa commission est illicite Et sa [sans?] validité par- ceque le lieutenant de Comté n'a aucun serment a recevoir que celuy de cytoyen et fidélité et non celui d'office et hors de pouvoir de Donner aucun ordre et ferés bien aux KasKasKias le 1er 7bre 1781. JACQUES LASOURCE. [Translation.] of the church, be brought to the Court and that there be delivered to M. Winston a decree that he is condemned to bring his commission to the said Court because he is encroaching on the rights of the people, wishes to introduce despotism into the country, to bring to naught the ancient customs, and to go against the rights of the people as is seen in the notice to the undersigned; and may it please you to decree that the oath which M. Winston received from M. Labuxiere Jr. be declared null and void, and that the said Court is to post a notice that the acts which the said M. Labuxiere Jr. shall receive shall not be valid, since he is not of the âge i required, [and to appoint him would be] contrary to law; and also may it please you to summon the said M. Labuxiere Jr. in order that you may déclare to him that both his oath and his com- mission are illégal and without validity, because the lieutenant of the county has no right to receive any oath except that of citizenship and allegiance, and cannot receive that of office, and he is powerless to give any order; and you shall do justice. Kaskaskia, September 1 1782. Jacques Lasource. 1 Originally written "capacité ni âge," but changed so as to read as above.
Page 267
WINSTON TO LASOURCE, SEPTEMBER i, 1781 267 Richard Winston to Jacques LaSource, September 1, 1781. [K. MSS.— A. L. S.] Monsieur, pour y repondre a votre lettre du iome du dernier par laquelle vous me dite que je ay pour agréable daporter a la Court Prochain les pouvoir dont je suis revêtu pour quil Soient Examiné Si je puis aler contre la Code de Loix. Je veux Bien vous Prévenir que je ne dépend point en cela de votre Jurisdiction et que sy je fait des fauts cest a l'état qui m'ont nommé a qui je en doit rendre Compte et non a vous Quant a mes pouvoirs je veut Encore vous Donner Satisfaction, vous pouvez vous Transporté Chez moi pour les Examiner ou quelque député de votre Cours. Etant Choses sacrés qui ne Sortirent Jamais de Chez moi que par L'ordre de ceux qui me les ont Confié A legard du Sieur Labuxiere fils je croi quil Ignore et quil doit Ignoré ce que vous lui demandé q'ayens Jamais Entendu parler ni Scu ce que vous Ordonne J'ai Lhonneur Détre avec Considération Monsieur Votre Serviteur Mr Lasource Rich. Winston [Addressed:] Monsieur Jacque Lasource [Translation.] Srs: In answer to your letter of the nineteenth of last month, by which you tell me that I should consent to bring to the next Court the com- mission with which I am invested, in order that it may be examined to see if I can act contrary to the code of laws, I wish to inform you that I am not dépendent in this on your jurisdiction and that, if I commit faults, I must render an account to the state which appointed me and not to you. As to my powers, I am still willing to give you satisfaction. You, or some deputy of your Court, can come to my house to examine the papers, since they are sacred things which should not be taken from my house except by the order of those who confided them to me. In regard to M. Labuxiere, jr., I believe that he is ignorant of and should be ignorant of what you demand of him, since he has never heard of or known what you order. I have the honor to be with con- sidération Sir, your servant. M. Lasource. Rich. Winston. [Addressed:] M. Jacques Lasource.
Page 268
268 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Warrant for Election, September 10, 1781 [K. MSS.—A. D. S.] Monsieur, La Cour supplie de vouloir donner vos ordres aux Capnes de milice pour faire assembler les habitans de cette ville demain a L'issue de la messe pour procéder a une nouvelle election des nouveaux magistrats pour remplacer ceux qui ont servi En cette qualité deux ans et plus ainsi que ceux qui ont donné leur demission et feres Bien Kaskaskias le 1781 Janis Par vertu de la présente Requisition nous avons ordonne et ordonnons aux Capitaines de milice En Consequance. Kaskaskias iome 7bre 1781 Rich Winston [Endorsed:] 1781 Requête de Mr Janis du 7me 7bre 1781 No 94 [Translation.] Sm: The Court petitions you to give your orders to the captains of militia to cause the inhabitants of this village to assemble tomorrow at the close of mass to proceed to a new election of new magistrates to replace those who have served in this capacity two years' and more as well as those who have given their resignation; and you will do right. Janis. Kaskaskia, the [no month and day] 1781. By virtue of the present requisition we have ordered and do order the captains of militia as a consequence thereof. Kaskaskia, September 10, 1781. Rich. Winston. [Endorsed:] 1781, Petition of M. Janis of September 7, 1781, No. 94.' tThe elections in Kaskaskia were held very irregularly instead of yearly as in Cahokia. There had been an election of two magistrates in the previous July {ante, p. 107) but no general election had been held since the first one in 1779. The people of Prairie du Rocher held the opinion that the term of office was three years. See post, p. 202. 3 The writing of the manuscript is very much faded, and the date written by Winston is particu- larly difficult to read. I read it, at first, September 15, but this is not in accord with date of the elec- tion of 1781. The year might be 1782, which would make the date of this document the same as that of the election of that year. The date of the endorsement is fairly clear, however, and the year is almost certainly 1781. Besides in 1782 Janis was not a judge and there were no magistrates that had held their office "two years or more." Therefore the date in the text is undoubtedly the correct one.
Page 269
AN ELECTION, SEPTEMBER io, 1781 369 Election, September io, 1781. [K. MSS.— D. S.] Assemblee Pour La nomination .2 0 be a Morin j| Picard || /Provet 1 J3 OLouis Brazcau || 1 S| | Vasseur | >| fr corset || | Paul Deruy | eu| Vitale Bauvais 2 M > d w M l a S 9* fc I a 'i al C a -a V M | Bte Charleville / / / / O / / / / / / / / / / / / / 1 / / / / Jean Bte Bauvais .. / / J_ J_ / / —

/ / 1 — / / 1 / J_ / / / 1 1 / 1 / 1 1 Ch. Charletille / 1 / 1 // / — T — T

/ / / Jacques Devegnois. / / 1 / antoine Beauvais... / ]_ / / / / / / 1 / 1 / fcoto Charletille ... / / 1 / / 1 / / / / 1 1 / / / 18 20 11
This page contains an image.
Page 270
270 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS aujourd'huy Dixième Jour du mois de Septembre mil sept cent quatre vingts et un Le public assemblé a nommé pour Magistrats du District des Kaskaskias le Sr Jean baptiste charleville pour président de la Court dudit District des Dits KasKasKias Et les S" antoine Morin, Pierre Langlois vital Beauvais et Pierre Picard pour Magistrats qui ont pretté Le Serment de fidélité Et doffice En cette qualité a la repub- lique de La Virginie les quels sont a Linstant comparu et ont signé lesdits Jour et an susdits. A Morin Vitale Bauvais Jean baptiste bauvais picard [Endorsed:] Lelesions de magistrats de lan 1781. No 3, 1781 Pièce [Translation.] Today the tenth day of the month of September, 1781, the public assembly has named as magistrates of the District of Kaskaskia, M. Jean Baptiste Charleville1 for président of the Court of the said Dis- trict of said Kaskaskia and M M. Antoine Morin, Pierre Langlois, Vital Bauvais, and Pierre Picard for magistrates; and they have taken the oath of fidelity and of office in this quality to the Republic of Vir- ginia; and they now appear and have signed the above said day and year. A. Morin, Vital Bauvais, Jean Baptiste Bauvais, Picard. 1 The name originally written was Pierre Langlois but it was erased and that of Charleville substi- tuted. The élection of Jean Baptiste Charleville and Antoine Bauvais had taken place inthe previoua July, for there isa record of their taking the oath of office. (.1 ntr, p. 107.) On this élection of magis- trates see Ul. Hist. Collections, ii., p. evii.
Page 271
AN ELECTION, FEBRUARY 10, 1782 Election, February 10, 1782. [K. MSS.— A. L. S.] Election du ioeme Fevrier 1782 Pour Lelection du Magistrats Louis antaya [?] Corset ant Buyen [?] Vasseur / Mr Vital / / / / / / / / / / /thomur / / Pierre Langlois j / En vertu de Lelection du dix du present mois Le Sr Stanislas Levas- seur a paru a la Cour ce jourdhuy vingt cinq du present mois de fev- rier mil sept cent quatre vingt deux et a pretté le serment doffice Et de fidelité et a Entré En charge ce dit Jour et a signé Staniles Levasseur Antoine Bauvais, j. P. [Endorsedi] Nomination de Mr Stanislas Levasseur a la Magistrature. 99. [Translation] In virtue of the election of the tenth of the present month M. Stan- islas Levasseur has appeared at the Court this day, the twenty-fifth of the present month of February, 1782, and has taken the oath of office and of fidelity, and has entered into office, this said day; and he has signed. Stanislas Levasseur Antoine Bauvais, J. P.
This page contains an image.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 272
CHAPTER VIII THE STRUGGLE FOR ASCENDENCY BETWEEN DODGE, WINSTON, AND THE COURT, APRIL TO NOVEMBER, 1782 John Dodge Arrests Richard Winston — The Latter Protests — Labuxiere Examines Witnesses — The Inhabitants Make Some Suggestions — An Election at Prairie du Rocher — Americans at Bellefontaine Petition for a Court — The Election — Inter- national Diplomacy on the Banks of the Mississippi — A New Election at Kaskaskia — Winston Writes to the New Magistrates — Carbonneaux Sells Out — Records of the Sessions of the Court The Arrest of Richard Winston, April 29, 17821 [C. C. Pp. XLVIII., 4—Copy.] Orders of John Dodge for taking prisoner the Chief Justice. 1. Dodge's order without commission.2 Here follows ily the order delivered by john Dodge for taking pris- oner the chief justice Lieutenant of County. ily Sir/ Whereas Ricd. Winston is guilty of treason you are here- by orderd to take a party of men and bring him before me to give an account of his conduct. Signed Jh Dodge Capt. Commandant To L*. israel Dodge KasKasKias, Apr. 29, 1782. at it's back in french Que le present ordre reste au greffe des minutes KasKaKias 29 av. 1782. French petition from the M Winston's wife.2 1782. 2ly. Afterward, the same day among many papers concerning that famous affair i find the following petition of Mr. Winston's wife called Margte Farqueson 1 These copies were sent to the Continental Congress as enclosures of the memorial printed post, p. 434. J This remark is written on the margin, probably by Father de la Valinicrc. See Introduction. 272
Page 273
ARREST OF WINSTON, APRIL 29, 1782 273 A Mons Ant Bauvais [un] des juges a paix des KasKaKias &c. Monsir je Marguerite Farqueson vous remontre que son mary vient de lui être enlevé par Israel Dodge accompagné de plusieurs per- sonnes, en consequence elle vous prie de faire assembler ce jour, la Cour, pour qu'il lui plaise faire paroitre devant elle toutes ces personnes, pour savoir la raison et vous ferez droit. Signé ou marque de Mde Farqueson KasKaKias ce 29 Av. 1782. et plus bas que la présente soit signifiée a tous les magistrats pour se trouver a une heure après midy pour y tenir seance. Mandons &c. Signe Ant Bauvais [Translation.] To Ant. Bauvais one of the justices of the peace of KasKaskia etc. Sir: I, Marguerite Farqueson, represent to you that my husband has just been arrested by Israel Dodge accompanied by several persons. Consequently she (Marguerite Farqueson) prays you to assemble the Court this day so that it may please the Court to summon before it all the persons in order that it may know the reason; and you will do justice. Signed or mark of Mde. Farqueson Kaskaskia this April 29, 1782. And below [was written] that notice be given to all the magistrates to be present at one o'clock P. M. to hold a session, we command, etc. Antoine Bauvais. [Document continued.] 2d. [sic] Dodge' order.1 317. Whereas M Richard Winston has been guilty of treasonable expressions Against the State and officer who have the honr of wearing Commission in the Service of their Country damnd them all and said they were all a set of thieves and Robers and only come to the Coun- try for that purpose, The above crime being proved before, i now de- liver him to you prisoner and request of you to Keep him in surety untill he may be brought to justice KasKasKias ap. 29. 1782. Signed jh Dodge Captain Agent Comdt. could he say something else on account of Montgomery Roger and Dodge ?» 1 Written in the margin. 2Written in the margin.
Page 274
274 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS And at the back. Que la présente Declaration soit séquestrée et quelle reste au greffe KasKasKias 29. Av. 1782. Signé Ant. Bauvais Enregistré au greffe a la page 267. et 268. foio 175. ce 8. janv. 1783. Sign P. Langlois greffier Je sertiffie que Les present ordonnances y dessus Est Conforme au minut au KasKasKias. pays des illinois Ce 3e 7bre 1787. Pre Langlois greffier [Translation.] And on the back is written: that the present declaration be se- questered and remain at the clerk's office. Kaskaskia, April 29,1782. (Signed) Ant. Bauvais Recorded at the clerk's office on page 267 and 268, folio 175, this January 8, 1783. (Signed) P Langlois, Clerk. I certify that the present ordinances, written above, conform to the minutes. At Kaskaskia, country of the Illinois, this September 3,1787. Pre Langlois, Clerk. [Document continued.] M. Winston has been Kept so prisoner by the Dodge's orders not- withstanding the Civil court 16 days. Afterward he went to Virginia preparing himself to pursue that affair to the Congress but he dyed there. [Endorsed:] Copies of certtain papers certified by P. Langlois. Richard Winston's Protest Against his Arrest, April 29, 1782 [John Todd's Record-Book Chicago Hist. Soc.—A. D.1] Kaskaskia in the Illinois 29th april 1782. Eighty and touce. This day 10 oClock A:M I was Taken out of my house by Isreal Dodge on an order Given by Jno. Dodge in despite of the Civil authoroty Dis- regardled the Laws and on ther Malitious acusation of Jhn Williams and michel perault as may appear by their deposition I was Confined By Tyranick military force without making any Legal aplication to the Civil Magistrates. 30th the attorney for the State La Buxiere presented a petition to the Court against Richard Winston State prisonner in their Custody the Contents of which he (the attorney for the State) ought to heave Communicated to me or my attorney if any I had. 1 This was not written by Winston, whose handwriting Is very weft known to the editor. In III. Hist. Collections, ii-, p. cxv., I have suggested Winston's wife as the writer. This protest is printed in Chi. Hist. Society's Collections, iv., 289, but a few corrections in the reading as there given have been made after a careful examination of the original.
Page 275
DODGE TO LABUXIERE, APRIL 30, 1782 275 John Dodge to M. Labuxiere, April 30, 1782 [C. MSS. in Chicago Hist. Society.— A. L. S.] A Monsieur Labuxiere Esq Procureur De L'état aux Kaskaskias Monsieur, Comme Richard Winston est acusé d'avoir tenu des discours inju- rieux contre L'état en general, et tantatoire à la Sûreté Du gouvernement; C'est pourquoy vous Comme Vous est Revêtu de L'honable charge de procureur de L'état de La Virginie, Pour Le department du West. Je vous requier monsieur de prandre connoissance de son crime offrant D'en administrer Les preuves Reclamant au nom de L'état, et pour La Sûreté de ce département, votre assistance Dans cette affaire; Vous declarant que jay Premièrement fait arrette Le Sr. Winston Prisonnier, et détenu a La garde de L'huissié Barutel, jusqua plus ample informa- tion, et crainte de L'évasion du dit Winston. Jay L'honneur d'estre avec Consideration Monsieur Votre très humble et obéissant Serviteur Jn. Dodge Capt. Aux Kaskaskias Le 30 Avril 1782 Agt. Com Military [Translation.] To M. Labuxtere, Esq. Attorney for the State, At Kaskaskia. Sir: As Richard Winston is accused of having held conversations which were injurious to the state in general, and menacing to the safety of the government, that is why I require you, sir, since you are invested with the honorable office of state's attorney of Virginia for the department of the West, to take cognizance of his crime ; * and I offer to furnish proofs thereof, and I claim your assistance in this affair in the name of the state and for the safety of this department. I further declare to you that I have already had M. Winston arrested as a prisoner and held under guard by the huissier, Barutel, for fear of his escape, until more ample information can be obtained. I have the honor to be, with con- sideration, Sir, your very humble and obedient servant, John Dodge, Capt. At Kaskaskia, April 30, 1782 Agt. Com. Military. 1 The following brief note from the Draper MSS., 60J3-48 should be included here: A letter from Capt. Jno. Dodge, dated Kaskaskia, March 6, 1783, after speaking of his accounts (the letter being addressed to the Board of Comrs.) says that "I am credibly informed that he [Mr. Winston, Command- ant! laid a plan to have English colours hoisted here, & hauled down by the Spaniards & make it a Spanish settlement; but I understand that the Spanish Commandant despised his unlegal proposition."
Page 276
276 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS The Syndic's Difficultés, April 30, 1782 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] a la respectable Cour Du Distric Des KasKasKia & & &c Messieurs, Le supliant a L'honneur de vous expose quil auroit été Elut sindique par La voix du peuple a la porte de L'eglise Le sept du present mois et quil auroit Crié et fait tous ce quil auroit put pour fair faire Les clotures et voyant quil navancé a rien par La negligence et mauvaise volonté Daucun qui ont Des Clotures, Cest pourquoy Le suplian reclame votre justice que tous ceux qui noront Pas fait Leurs Cloture Bonne et solide qui seront reçu par plusieurs habitans de ce vilage mardy Le sept du mois De may qui soit mie a La mande Le supliant vous suplie que votre ordonnance ce soit affiché a celle fin que personne En pretende Cause dignorance, Cest La grace quil espere et il ne Cessera De faire des voeux pour votre Conservation KasKasKia 30 avrille 1782 PRENO Veu la requête cy dessus et des autres Parts par le Cours du District des Kaskaskias La requête cy dessus et des autres Part par la Cours [Translation.] To the Honorable Court of the District of Kaskaskia etc. Gentlemen: The suppliant has the honor to show you that he was elected syndic by the votes of the people, at the'door of the church, the seventh of the present month, and that he has issued announcements and has done everything he could to have the fences made; and because he sees that he has accomplished nothing on account of the negligence and ill-will of all who have fences, that is the reason that the suppliant claims your justice against all those who shall not have made their fences good and solid, such as will be accepted on Tuesday, May 7, by several inhabitants of this village who should be placed under orders for that purpose. The suppliant prays that your decree be attached to this so that no person may plead cause of ignorance. This is the grace which he hopes for, and he will not cease to make vows for your preservation. Kaskaskia, April 30, 1782. Preno. The Court of the District of Kaskaskia has examined the petition, above and on the other side, and decrees that each of the inhabitants of
Page 277
EXAMINATION BY LABUXIERE, MAY 2, 1782 277 [sic] La qu'elle ordonne que tous les habitans de ce village aye a faire dycy a Mardy prochain septième de May chacun leur part de Clôture Bonne et recevable, jour auquel la visite Le fera et celles qui ne seront point faites les propriétaires Payeront la même ce Mandons &c fait et donné par la Cour du dit District Laudience y tenant le Mardy trentième avril Mil sept cent quatre vingt deuz Et leur clôture sera fait a leur Dépends. A Mortn J P [Translation.] this village must make his part of the fence, good and acceptable, be- tween now and Tuesday, May 7, the day on which the inspection shall be made; and those fences which shall not be made, the owners thereof shall pay for the same. This we order etc. Made and done by the Court of the said district in the session of Tuesday, April 30,1782; and their fence shall be made at their expense. A. Morin, J. P. EXAMINATION OF WlTNESSES BY LABUXIERE, May 2, 1782 [C. MSS. in Belleville. — A. D. S.] Moy joseph Labuxiere procureur de l'Etat de Virginie en la Conte des ilinois ne pouvant parvenir a faire instruire le procès dud1 Richard Vinston par les magistrats du district des Caskaskias, suivant ladnun- ciation a moy faite par Mr jean dodge capitaine dinfanterie, par le deffaud dargent ou je me trouve ainsi que Mr dodge Et que les dits magistrats ont ordonné de consigner davance par leur Sentence au bas. de ma requête du trente davril dernier, ne pouvant me dispender den donner avis au Conseil gênerai, Et a Monsieur le gênerai Clark, jay crû [Translation.] I, Joseph Labuxiere, State's Attorney of Virginia in the County of Illinois, having been unable to succeed in having the charges against the said Richard Winston examined by the magistrates of the District of Kaskaskia, in accordance with the accusation made to me by M. John Dodge, captain of infantry, on account of the lack of money on the part of M. Dodge and myself and because the said magistrates decreed by their judgment, written below my pétition of the thirtieth of last April, that payment should be made in advance, and because I cannot dispense with giving an account of the affair to the General Council
Page 278
278 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS qua la demande de mond* jn dodge Et qu'il Etoit de mon devoir afin pour donner un plus grand Eclaircissement de laffaire Au conseil General Et a Mr Le gênerai Clark de recevoir la déposition des témoins contre led* Sr Winston Et de la leur faire parvenir a la diligence de Mr dodge pour En ordonner ce quils jugeront Convenable, En conséquence jay fait paroitre devant moy le Mr Michel Perault capitaine au service dud1 Etat un des témoins produit par Ledit sr dodge lequel après serment par luy fait sur les Saints Evangiles de dire vérité Et quil ma dit netre parant ny alie dud1 sr Winston acusé. luy ayant fait lecture de la denunciation a moy faite par mond1 sr dodge, je luy ay demandé sil avoit Connoissance des faits y Enoncez. Lequel a repondu que ouy. Lavons requis de nous faire un fidel raport de ce quil savoit dud* sr Winston concernant ladite denunciation Et quil ait a nous En faite une relation Et déposition Exacte. A repondu, quen sa qualité de Capitaine dinfanterie il Etoit obligé de prendre linterest de LEtat En conséquence sachant quil y avoit des effets En perdition apartenant aud* Etat, le déposant a Ecrit [Translation.] and to General Clark, I have believed that, at the demand of M. John Dodge and in order to give a more complète explanation to the General Council and to General Clark, it was my duty to receive the dépositions of the witnesses against the said M. Winston at the suit of M. Dodge and to hâve thèse reach the hands of the Council so that they might order whatever they thought fit. Consequently I caused to appear before me M. Michel Perrault, a captain in the service of the said state, one of the witnesses produced by the said M. Dodge.1 The witness, after having taken oath upon the Holy Evangelists to tell the truth, stated to me that he was neither a relative nor an associate of the said M. Win- ston, défendant. After I had read to him the accusation made to me by the said M. Dodge, I have asked him if he had any knowledge of the fact set forth therein. He answered, "yes." I then required him to make a true report of what he knew about the said Winston, as far as it concerned the said accusation, insisting that he should make an exact statement and déposition. He answered that in his position as captain of the infantry he was obliged to take care of the interest of the state Consequently, since he knew that there was property belong1 Among the papers of the Va. State Library is one containing the testimony of Michel Perrault and John Williams, made before John Dodge. The testimony is exactly the same as given in this P»per.
Page 279
EXAMINATION BY LABUXIERE, MAY 2, 1782 279 un billet au sr Winston pour luy en remettre quelqu'on quil avoit En sa pocession Ce quil a fait En partie, Et le déposant, sEtant trouvé dans l'idigence a Eté obligé de disposer par une vente de quelques articles, ce a quoy le sr Winston luy a dit quil sapercevoit quil suivit les traces de ses supérieurs qui Etoient une Bande de Voleurs En gênerai interogé sil a quelque Chose a dire de plus pour l'Eclaircissement de cette affaire, a repondu n'avoir plu rien a dire. Lecture a luy faite de sa déposition, a dit quelle contient vérité quelle est fidèle Et sincère Et quil affirme sous le Serment quil a fait Et quil y persiste, Et a Signé avec Nous. le deux May mil sept Cent quatre vingt deux. Labuxiere procureur de LEtat Mch Perrault Capne of the Ilinois Bataillon Jay fait aussi comparoitre pardevant moy Mr jean Wiliams ancien capitaine dinfanterie cy devant au service de LEtat segond témoin pro- duit par Mr dodge, lequel après serment par luy fait Sur les Saints [Translation.] ing to the said state that was going to ruin, the witness wrote a note to M. Winston asking him to send to him (Perrault) some of the things in his (Winston's) possession. This the said Winston did in part. And the witness, having found himself in want, was forced to sell some of thèse articles. Thereupon M. Winston said to him that he per- ceived that he (Perrault) was following in the footsteps of his superiors, who were generally a band of thieves. Upon being asked whether he had anything else to say in elucidation of this affair, the witness an- swered that he had nothing more to say. The reading of his déposition having been made to him, he stated that it contained the truth, that it is faithful and true, and that he affirms it under the oath which he has taken, and that he persists therein. And he signed with us this second of May one thousand seven hundred and eight-two. Labuxiere, State's Attorney Michel Perrault, Capt. of the Illinois Battalion. I also, caused to appear before me M. John Williams, formerly captain of infantry in the service of the state, the second witness pro- duced by M. Dodge. The witness, after having taken oath upon the Holy Evangelists to tell the truth, has stated to us that he was neither
Page 280
a8o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Evangiles de dire la vérité Et quil nous a dit Netre parant ni alie dud* Winston luy avons demande sil a connoissance de lanonciation a nous faite par led* sr dodge de laquelle je luy ay fait le lecture a dit que ouy quil En avoit Connoissance. L'avons requis sans contrainte De nous en faire une Relation sincère, dépose, quil sest trouvé En la compagnie de Mr Winston Et que den plusieurs occasion il luy entendu sacrer tous les officiers du département des ilinois a lexception du gênerai Clark disant quils etoient une bande de voleurs Et pileurs Et quils quils [sic] netoient venus dans ce pays que pour cet effet Et Exprès interogé sil sest aperçu que le sr Winston avoit Bû dans Ses propos, a repondu que non interogé sil a quelque Chose a dire de plus, a repondu navoit plus Rien a dire. Lecture a luy faite de Sa déclaration a dit quelle Contien vérité Et quil y persiste sous le serment quil a fait et a Signé avec moy aux Caskaskias des ilinois le deux May mil sept Cent Quatre vingt deux. Labuxiere procureur de LEtat John Williams Avons fait avenir Henry Schemitz ancien capne de milice En Vir- ginie de présent habitant aux Caskaskias troisième témoins produit [Translation.] a relative nor an associate of the said Winston. We asked him whether he knew about the accusation made to us by the said M. Dodge, which accusation I read to him. The witness said that he knew of this accu- sation. I then asked him to make, without any constraint, a careful statement. He testified that he was in the company of M. Winston, when on several occasions he heard him curse ail the officers of the de- partment of the Illinois with the exception of General Clark, saying that they were ail a band of thieves and robbers and that they had come to this country only for that purpose expressly. The witness was asked whether he had noticed that M. Winston showed signs of intoxi- cation in his speech. He answered, "No." Upon beingasked whether he had anything more to say, the witness answered that he had not. His testimony was then read to him and he said that it contained the truth and that he persisted therein under the oath which he has taken. He then signed with us. At Kaskaskia of the Illinois the second of May, 1782. Labuxiere, State's Attorney John Williams. I also had appear Henry Smith, formerly captain of infantry in Virginia and at présent an inhabitant of Kaskaskia, the third witness
Page 281
EXAMINATION BY LABUXIERE, MAY 2, 1782 281 par le sr dodge, lequel après serment par luy fait de dire la vérité Et quil nous a dit netre parant serviteur ni alié dud* sr Winston, luy ay demandé SU avoit Connoissance des faits inserez dans la dénonciation de Mr dodge de laquelle nous luy avons fait Lecture. Et quil ait a nous faire une Relation Exacte Et sincère de ce qui a Sa Connoissance ce quil a fait par linterpretation du Mr Michel perault qui luy sest de truchement a deffaud présentement de trouver dautre interprète, ce que le d' sr perault a promis de faire après serment par luy fait de me raporter fidèlement la déposition dud' sr Schemitz. dépose que sEtant trouvé plusieurs fois En conversation avec le sr Winston il luy a Entendu dire sans que la boisson y ait Eu aucune part que les officiers qui Etoient venus dans le pays ny Etoient venus que pour piller les habitants En Conséquence, quils Etoient une Bande de Gueux, pilleurs Et voleurs Et quil Etoit dans Le Cas de le prouver par tous les Citoyens du pays, interogé sil a quelqu'autre Chose a déposer contre sr Winston a repondu que non. Lecture a luy faite de sa déposition a dit quelle contient [Translation.] produced by M. Dodge. The witness after having taken oath to tell the truth, stated that he was neither a relative, a servant, or an asso- ciate of the aforesaid M. Winston. I asked him if he had any knowl- edge of the facts contained in the accusation of M. Dodge, which I read to him, and I required that he should make to us an exact and true statement of what he knew. This he did through the interprétation of M. Michel Perrault, who acted as his spokesman in default of being able to find another interpréter at the time. This M. Perrault promised to do after taking an oath to repeat faithfully the testimony of the said M. Smith. The witness testified that he was several times in conver- sation with M. Winston and heard him say, liquor playing absolutely no part therein, that the officers, who had come into the country, had corne for no other reason than to pillage the inhabitants afterwards, and that the officers were a band of beggars, robbers, and thieves, and that he was in a position to prove it by ail the citizens of the country. Having been asked whether he had anything else to testify against the said Winston, he answered, "No." His testimony having been read to him, he declared that it contained the truth and that he maintained
Page 282
282 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS vérité et quil y persiste sous le serment quil a fait Et a Signé avec moy Et led1 Sr Perault le deux may mil sept Cent quatre vingt deux Mch Perrault Henry Smith Servant d'interprette au Sr Smith Labcxtere Procureur de LEtat Comme je nignore pas quil est hors de ma ministère de recevoir des dépositions de témoins Et que je ne doit donner que mes Conclusions dans le procès, cependant jay Crû ne pouvoir me dispenser de le faire dans cette occasion pr donner lintelligence de cette afaire au Conseil gênerai, Et faire servir la dite dépositions suivant que le conseil le jugera Convenable. Labuxterf. [Translation.] it under the oath which he had taken. And he signed with me and the said M. Perrault, the second of May, 1782. Henry Smith. Michel Perrault, acting as interpréter for M. Smith. Labuxiere, State's Attorney. Although I am not ignorant of the fact that it is out of my province to take the testimony of witnesses and that I should give only the con- clusions in the trial, nevertheless, I did not think that I could dispense therewith on this occasion, in order to give intelligence of this affair to the General Council, and to have the said dépositions serve as the Council shall judge fit. Labuxiere. John Dodge to Joseph Labuxiere, May 4, 1782 [C. MSS. in Belleville.— Copy by Labuxiere.] Monsieur, Vu que la Cour na voulu prendre connoissance de l'affaire de Mr Winston C'est pourquoi Mr Voyant La Viamence qu'il règne, instigué par les propos du dit Winston, attantoir pour La Sûreté du gouverne- [Translation.] Sir: Since the Court has not been willing to take cognizance of the affair of M. Winston, and on account of the turmoil that reigns instigated by the designs of the said Winston, a man who strikes at the safety
Page 283
DODGE TO LABUXIERE, MAY 4, 1782 283 ment; C'est pourquoi monsieur je pense qu'il Seroit apropos de faire arretter Les biens et Le Corps dud* Winston. En Conséquence par Le dû de ma charge, ainsi que par le Serment que jay pretté a Letat je ne puis m'empecher que de poursuivre Cet Homme, ettant très dan- gereux, et Capable De Favoricer [?] une entré favorable a nos Enne- mies Commun ainsi Monsr je me tressers [?] a votre oppinion étant persuadez que vous navez rien De plus a Coeur que L'interest de votre patrie et Le dû de votre charge. Jay Lhoneur d'estre monsieur Votre très humble et obéissant Serviteur J W Dodge Capt Aux Kaskaskias Le 4 May 1782 Agent State Virg3 Veu la représentation cy dessus et de lautre par je soussigné pro- cureur de l'Etat de Virginie, je nempeche ni ne mopose point pour la sûreté de ce department a ce que Mr jean dodge captaine dinfanterie et les officiers militaire actuellement aux Caskaskias, ne se saississent de la personne du sr Richard Winston Et ne sassurent de Sa personne pour prévenir Les suites funestes quil pouroit trouver tant contre le [Translation.] of the government, it is for thèse reasons, sir, that I think it would be fitting to arrest the said Winston and attach his property. Therefore, in virtue of my office as well as by the oath that I have given to the state, I cannot desist from prosecuting that man, since he is very dan- gerous and capable of assisting a favorable entrance to our common enemies. So I defer to your opinion, being persuaded that y ou hâve nothing nearer to your heart than the interest of your country and the duty of your office. I have the honor to be, sir, Your very humble and obedient servant, J. W. Dodge, Capt., Kaskaskia, May 4, 1782. Agent for the State of Virginia. In view of the représentation, above and on the other page, I, the undersigned, attorney for the State of Virginia, do not prevent M. Dodge, Captain of the Infantry, and the military officers now at Kas- kaskia, from seizing the body of M. Richard Winston and from assur- ing themselves of his person so as to prevent any detrimental consé- quences that he might bring on the government as well as on the persons
Page 284
284 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS gouvernement que contre la personne des officiers Et la tranquilité du peuple, En En donnant avis au Conseil dEtat de virginie Et a Mrs Le general Clark Et tod, declarant que je nentend En aucunne facon me rendre garand ni responsable Envers lEtat ni ledit Winston des Evene- ments Et preiudice qui en pouroit resulter, ou repetition que Ion pouvoit faire, fait aux Caskaskias le quatre may mil sept cent quatre-vingt deux je declare Encor que vous ayez vous Mr dodge a prendre garde a ce que Biens dud* Vinston ne deperissent pas, autrement je vous en rend Responsable fait aux Caskaskias les d* jour Et an Labuxiere, procureur de l'Etat [Translation.] of the officers and the tranquillity of the people; nor do I, for the safety of my department, make opposition. In giving notice to the Counsel of State and to General Clark and Colonel Todd I declare to them that I do not in any way intend to render myself responsible to the state or to the said Winston for the results and damages that may result from it, or for any suit for damages that may be brought. Done at Kas- kaskia the fourth of May, 1782. I further state, that you, M. Dodge, should take care that the property of the aforesaid Winston be not destroyed, otherwise I hold you responsible therefor. Done at Kas- kaskia this same day and year. Labuxiere, State's Attorney. Inhabitants of Kaskaskia to the Magistrates, May 25, 1782 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] A Messieurs Les Magistrats de La Respectable Cour du Distric des KasKasKias Messieur, Les Soussignes habitants de cette comté de La Ville des KasKasKias onts L'honneur de vous Exposer comme Sujets Des Etats Unis de [Translation.] To the Magistrates of the Honorable Court of the District of Kas- kaskia. Gentlemen: We, the undersigned inhabitants of this county and of the village of Kaskaskia, have the honor to petition you, as subjects of the United
Page 285
INHABITANTS TO MAGISTRATES, MAY 25, 1782 285 Lamerique qu'il vous Plaise que Les Suppliants vous fassent Une Juste Représentation Pour maintenir Le bon ordre Et Soutenir La Respectable Cour Et Les droits des Citoyens de cette contré. [Artcle Ier] [MS. torn] Les Etrangers Etablis Et arivant dans ce Pays ayent a Prêter Le serment Pardevant vous, tous au nom des Etats Unis s'ils nont aucun titres de L'avoir fait, de prêter Le serman Delégançe aux Etats Unis de La Merique. artcle 2mc Un autre serman par Lequel ils seront tenu de prêter La main, et Donner main forte touttefois qu'ils en Seront Requis pour maintenir la loy Civille et le Droit des Gens. 3me Ceux qui ne pretteront point Le Serman Requis ayent a sortir de L'endroit Sans delay comme il vous est enjoint par la lettre de Mon- sieur Le General Clarke qui Est au Greffe. 4me Que La cour sera Soutenue par tout ceux qui Pretteront Le serman et qui L'ont pretté comme dit cy devant et pour Le Bien Public. [Translation.] States of America, that you consent to allow the suppliants to make to you a just mémorial concerning the maintenance of good order, sup- porting the honorable Court, and the rights of the citizens of this county. [ist Article. They represent to you that] the strangers, settled or just arriving in this country, ought to take in your présence the oath of allegiance to the United States of America in the name of the United States, unless they have certificates to show that they have already taken the oath of allegiance to the United States of America. 2nd Article. That they should also take another oath by which they will be obliged to lend assistance and help, whenever it may be required of them, in order to maintain civil law and the rights of the people. 3d Article. That those who do not take the required oath should be compelled by you to leave thèse régions at once, as you are com- manded to do by the letter from General Clark which is in the clerk's office.1 4th Article. That the Court shall be maintained by ail those who shall take the oath and who have given it, as mentioned above, for the public welfare. 1 This refers to a letter written by Clark in December, 1781, which is now among the Kaskaskia MSS. It will be published in the volumes devoted to Clark's papers. Consult lU. Hist. Collec- tions, ii., p. eut.
Page 286
286 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS arcie jme Que Personne n'entrera dans L'audience avec aucun arme Sans votre permission Expresse n'y qu'il ne soit fait aucunnes insultes et ceux qui y contreviendron seront Puni Et condamner Par La Cour. 6me Que Personne N'ayent authorité de mettre en Prison qui que ce soit Sans une ordre Emané de La Cour ou d'un Magistrat. 7me Que vous ordonnerez qu'il Soit fait une Prison civil Sans Delay, qu un chaqu'un y coopérera comme utille au maintient de la cour et a La tranquilité des citoyens. 8me Que tous officiers des Etats qui viendrons dans cette contrée Sans Passeport ou serman ne soyent Jusqu'à ce quils ayent donné preuve de leur fidélité et Bonne Moeurs. 9me Que tout habitants qui viendront pour s'établir dans ce Pays contrée des Illinois [MS. lorn] Passeport des Etats unis, Ne soient point Reçue N'obstant Le Passeport ils donneront témoignage de leurs Bonne Vie et Moeurs. I0me QUe toutte Personne Etablis dans cette contrée ou qui sy [Translation.] 5th Article. That no person shall enter the court-room with any weapon whatever without your express permission, and that no insuit be offered the Court; that those violating this shall be punished and condemned by the Court. 6th Article. That no one, whoever he may be, shall have authority to imprison anyone without an order issuing from the Court or from a magistrate. 7th Article. That you order a jail to be built at once, and that each one shall co-operate in its construction as a thing useful for the maintenance of the Court and to the tranquillity of the citizens. 8th Article. That ail officers of the United States who shall come to this country without a passport or oath be not regarded as such un- til they have given proof of their fidelity and good morals. oth Article. That ail persons who may come to establish them- selves in this country, the County of Illinois, bringing a passport from the United States, should not be received, in spite of the passport, until they give proof of their good life and morals. ioth Article. That ail persons settled in this country or who shall
Page 287
INHABITANTS TO MAGISTRATES, MAY 25, 1782 287 Etablironts suivront la Loix française que nous avons eu Pouvoir de suivre nme Que tourte Pièces de Procédure Et autre Seront faittes en français. i2me Qu'il Plaise à la cour qu'il soit fait une assemblé Public Pour touts les Etrangers, citoyens, établis, Et autres y soient admis lorsquils auront Prêté le serman Requis comme il Est dit, quils seront averti Par une afiche qu'il plaira a la cour de faire Publier, Pour s'tatuer Les fraix de Justice qui absorbent Le Public, dont Les soussignés Reclame de suivre Le tarif de feu Mtre Barois cy devant Notaire, Et qui Est au Greffe. Apcie j^me Que tourtes Personne Nommé Pour Les interests Public soient appuyés Par la Cour comme sindic Et autres. i4me Que la traite d'Eaudevie aux Sauvages Soit Exetu, que les contrevenants Soient Puny Par une amande qu'il Plaira a La Cour de taxer, Et En cas de Recedive Pour la troisième fois Soient chasé de Lendroit comme Pertubateur Public. [ Translation.] settle herein, shall follow the French law which we have had permission to follow. 1 ith Article. That ail court proceedings and other légal business be conducted in the French language. i2th Article. That it may please the Court that a public assembly be called to which ail strangers, citizens, settlers, and others be admitted, after they shall have taken the required oath, as has been mentioned, and that they shall be notified by a public notice, which it will please the Court to have published, whereby there shall be established by statute the costs of justice, which are consuming the public. We, the under- signed, beg that you follow the tariff of the late M. Barrois, former notary, which tariff is at the office of the clerk.1 i3th Article. That ail persons named to care for public interests be supported by the Court in their duties, such as syndics and others. i4th Article. That the sale of eaudevie to the Indians be pro- hibited; that offenders be punished by a fine, which the Court may see fit to establish; and in case of répétition for the third time that they be driven from the place as disturbers of the public welfare. 1 Royal French notary in the district of Illinois, 1737 to 1757. An account of him may be found in Alvord, "111. in the i8th Century," Bulletin of the 111. State Hist. Library, i., No. 1., p. la.
Page 288
a88 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS j^me Que tous Voleurs Soient arrêtés Pour son crime Et Puni Suivant La Loy. i6me Que Le Bon ordre devant L'Eglise Soit maintenu Par un sentinel, qui Sera ordonné Par Les Capitaines de Milice qui donnerons la Consine Pour maintenir Le Respect Pendant Le Service Divin, que les contrevenant Soient emprisonné Et condamné a une amande Par La cour i7me [MS. torn] deffendu a qui que ce soit de vendre aucune Boi- son Enivrante aux Esclaves n'y achepter d eux sans une Permission Exprese de leur Maître; ainsi que de deffendre les assemblés Noc- turnes que tienne Les dits Esclaves Sou [sic] peine d'une amende a Ceux qui les souffrirons chez Eux, Et une Amande apliquée a qui con- que leur vendera de la Boison et cy Ils Récidivent quils soient chasé de ce Pays. i8me Quil Plaise a La cour d'examiner touttes les Articles y men- tionée aux fins de maintenir la Paix, L'union, Et la tranquilité aux Cito- yens que La présente soit Lue Et affichée devant L'Eglise Pour en don- ner Connaissance a tout Le Public afin qu'il n'en prétende aucune [Translation.] i5th Article. That ail thieves be arrested for their crime and punished according to law. iôth Article. That good order in front of the church be kept by a sentinel, who shall be appointed by the captains of the militia. The latter shall give orders that respect be observed during divine service, and those violating the same be imprisoned and condemned by the Court to pay a fine. i7th Article. That it be forbidden for any one, whomsoever, to sell any kind of intoxicating drinks to the slaves, or to buy anything from them without the express permission of their masters; and that the said slaves be forbidden to hold assemblies at night under penalty of a fine against those who permit thèse assemblies at their home, and a fine against any one who shall sell them drink; and, if they repeat the offence, that they be expelled from the country. i8th Article. That it may please the Court to examine ail thèse articles mentioned hère, in order to maintain peace, union, and tran- quillity for the citizens; that the présent be read and posted before the church, in order to acquaint ail the public therewith, so that no one may
Page 289
INHABITANTS TO MAGISTRATES, MAY 25, 1782 289 cause dignorence Et que les soussignés Esperent que La Respectable cour voudra Bien donner toutte La force a ses Justes Representations comme un Bien Public Et fera Droite. Aux KasKasKias Le 25 May 1782 Lonval PRENO rené soumande pre Langloy Lachanse BARUTEL Fr CORSET Louis Bra[A/S. torn] Conaud Janis Gerard langlois Antoine Peltie F Charleville Chle Charleville JEAN BAPT + LAPERCHE marque sa Antoine + Peltie marque sa JEAN + LARUE marque sa ANTOINE + RENOUS marque sa HENRY + RELHIER marque [Translation.] pretend to be ignorant thereof. The undersigned hope that the hon- orable Court will see fit to enforce, in full, these just representations as an act for the public good; and it shall do justice. Kaskaskia, May 25, 1782. Lonval. Preno. René Soumande. Pierre Langlois. Lachanse. Barutel. Fr. Corset. Louis Bra[zeau]. Conaud. Janis. Gerard Langlois. Antoine Pelletier. F Charleville. Charles Charleville. his Jean Bapt. + Laperche. mark his Antoine + Pelletier. mark his Jean + Larue. mark his Antoine + Reneaux. mark his Henry + Relhier. mark
Page 290
290 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS sa BAPT. + DELILLE marque sa JEAN BT + JANDRON marque batis janis antoine boyat Rich. Winston P Richard sa BATIOLE + TOMUR marque MICHEL + DANY sa CHARLE + DELILLE marque sa JOSEPH + MIGNE marque sa PIER + DUMON marque Veu La requête cy dessus La Cour ordonne aux Capitaine et com- mandant de la milice De donner leurs ordres que tous les Cytoyens françois et américains soit assemblé chez Le Lieutenant de Comtée Dimanche prochain a lissue [de] la messe pour délibérer sur la Bâtisse [Translation.] his Baptiste + Delisle. mark his Jean Bapt. + Jandron. mark Batiste Janis. Antoine Buyat. Richard Winston. P. Richard. his Batiole + Thaumur. mark Michel + Danïs. his Charle + Delisle. mark his Joseph + Migne. mark his Pierre + Dcmont. mark In view of the above pétition the Court orders the captains and com- mandant of the militia to give orders that ail the French and American citizens be assembled at the home of the lieutenant of the county next Sunday at the close of mass in order to consider the érection of a jail,
Page 291
AN ELECTION, JUNE 18, 1782 291 d'une prison dont un chacun ne manqueront point de sy trouver, Et Ensuite la Cour repondera aux autres demandes [MS. lorn] présente requête Mandons &c fait [MS. lorn] la ditte cour Laudience y tenant [MS. lorn] même jour du mois de juin mil sept cent quatrevingts deux ANTOINE BAUVAIS J P Enregistrés au Greffe du District de KasKasKias En la Comté des Illinois Pages 206: 207: 208: pages 250 folio 131 Par nous notaire Et greffier en Dit District KasKasKias le vingt neuvième jour du mois d'aoust mil sept cent quatrevingts deux Carbonneaux Greffier [Endorsed:] Requête des habitants des Kaskaskias [Translation.] at which meeting none should be absent. Then the Court will answer the other requests [of this] présent pétition. Let it be ordered, etc. Done [in] the said Court, while in session, [this] same day of the month of June, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-two. Antoine Bauvais, Justice of the Peace. Recorded at the clerk's office in the District of Kaskaskia in the County of Illinois, pages 206, 207, 208, page 250, folio 131, by us, notary and clerk of the District of Kaskaskia, the twenty-ninth of the month of August, 1782. Carbonneaux, Clerk. [Endorsed:] Pétition of the Inhabitants of Kaskaskia. Election of Magistrates at Prairie du Rocher, June 18, 1782 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] Aujourdhuy Seizième jour du Mois de juin mil Sept cent quatrevingt deux. Nous habitans de la prairie du Rocher Nous Sommes assemblés par ordre de M. Barbeau capitaine de Milice Et commandant au d* lieu. En Sa maison a l'Effet de Nommer deux magistrats pour le district des [Translation.] To-day the sixteenth of June, 1782, we, the inhabitants of Prairie du Rocher, assembled at the order of M. Barbau, captain of the militia and commandant at the said place, at his house, in order to name two magistrates for the District of Kaskaskia in the place and stead of M.
Page 292
292 - ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS KasKasKias au lieu Et place de Mond. Sr Barbeau et de Mr. Louviere qui ont Exercée lesd. charges pendant le tems fixé par le code du gou- vernement Et après avoir mûrement réfléchi Et Examiné nous avons Nommé Et Nommons pour exercer les dites Charges de Magistrats la personne du Sr aimé Compte Et la personne de jean B** jacquemain habitans de ce dit village n'en Connoissant pas dautres plus capable dexercer les dites charges Sur quoy nous capne de Milice Et commandant cy devant Nommé avons reçu led. sr. aimé Le Compte Et jean Bte jacquemain En la dite qualité de Magistras les quels ont volontairement accepté lesd. Charges Et promis faire le Sermant doffice devant la Cour du district des KasKasKias fait a la prairie du Rocher les jour Et an Et avons signé Et fait nos marques ordre Marque de Joseph terrien At Louvtere. ""jean baptiste aymé comte Camouns [?] Barbau fils Marque de francois ti- Barbau bault jlovani baptista jacomini Marque de Louis la No- Decochy vile [?] [Translation.] Barbau and M. Louviere who have executed the said duties during the time fixed by the government code; and, after having carefully considered and examined, we have named and name for the said office of magistrates the person of M. Aymé Comte and the person of M. Giovani Baptista Jacomini,1 inhabitants of this village, since we do not know any others more capable to perform the said duties. Where- fore, we, captain of militia and commandant above named, have received the said M. Aymé Comte and Giovani Baptista Jacomini in the said quality of magistrates, and they have willingly accepted the said office and have promised to take the oath of office before the Court of the District of Kaskaskia. Done at Prairie du Rocher, the same day and year as above. Signed and our marks made. Mark of Joseph Terrier. A. Louviere. ""Jean Baptiste Aymé Comte. Camouns [?] Barbau, Jr. Mark of François Tibault. Barbau. Mark of Louis La Novile. [?] Giovani Baptista Jacomini. De Cochy. 'Although the French wrote his name Jacquemain, hc always signed as given in the translation.
Page 293
BAUVAIS TO LABUXIERE, JUNE 30, 1782 293 Antoine Bauvais to Joseph Labuxiere, June 30, 1782 [C. MSS. in Chicago.— A. D. S.] Au Monsieur Labuxiere Procureur de L Etat a la Prairie durocher Monsieur, Vous aures pour agreable davoir la Bonté d'en voyer par Ecri Le noms des temoins que vous voulés faire paroitre Lundy prochain a la Cours pour y être interrogé Et vous aussi La Complaisance D'Envoyer a la Cours par Ecri Et de vous signé Les Interrogations que vous jugéres apropos Que la Cours fasse aux dits temoins concemans Laffaire de M" Richard Winston Et John Dodge jespere que vous feres Intention a ce que jai L'honneur de vous Ecrire, La Cours voulant que cette affaire se decide veu que le Sr. Winston voudroit partir. Jai Lhonneur d'être avec Consideration Monsieur Votre tres humble et tres obeissant serviteur ANTOINE BEAUVAIS Pre Cidan[?] Kaskaskias le 30ie Juin 1782 [Translation.] To M. Labuxiere, Attorney for the State, At Prairie du Rocher. Siri Will you be so kind as to send me in writing the names of the witness- es whom you wish to have appear in court, next Monday, in order that they may be interviewed? Have also the kindness to send in writing, signed by you, the questions concerning the affair of MM. Richard Win- ston and John Dodge which you may think fit that the Court should address to the said witnesses. I hope that you will pay attention to what I have the honor to write to you, since the Court wishes that this affair be decided, inasmuch as M. Winston wishes to depart. I have the honor to be, with consideration, Sir, your very humble and very obedient servant, ANTOINE BAUVAIS. President. Kaskaskia, June 30, 1782
Page 294
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Petition of American Settlers of Bellefontaine to the Court of the District of Kaskaskia for Some Form of Civil Government, July 9, 1782 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] A la Respectable cours du District des KasKasKias Les Soussignés ont L'honneur de vous remontrer qu'ils sont venus dans ce pais cy depuis quellesques années dans le desser de s'y Etablir, dans ce pais, et voyant qu'ils ne peuvent point s'Etablir dans aucun vil- lage n'ayant point de fonds, nous avons pris le Parti de nous Etablir a la bellefontaine, nous ne desirons point Messieurs de faire un Etablisse- ment Indépendant n'y [MS. illegible] ne pouroit aucunement nuisible a nos voisins les anciens cytoyens de ce pais, contraire nous désirons Nous Gouverner suivant les loix qui Gouvernent ce pais Et Comme nous n'avons point le Bonheur de pouvoir nous Expliquer ny d'Entendre La langue françoise qui est celle qui Domine C'est pourquoy messieurs nous vous supplions ainsy que Mr. Richard Winston député Lieutenant de Comtée de vos avis Ensamble de vouloir nommer ou de former quel- que regulation Par le Quel nous pouvrons maintenir le Bon ordre chez nous, Ou de nommer quelqu'un Permis nous ou de nous En Laisser nommer un et qu'il sera commissioné Comme de Coutume dans ce pais [Translation.] To the Honorable Court of the District of Kaskaskia. The undersigned have the honor to show you that they came into this country a few years ago with the desire of settling in this country and, since they were unable to settle in any village, not having any funds, they decided to settle at Bellefontaine. We do not desire, gentlemen, to form an independent settlement [nor one] that would be in anywise detrimental to our neighbors, the first citizens of this country. On the contrary, we desire to govern ourselves according to the laws which govern this country, and, as we have not the good fortune to be able to explain ourselves in, or to understand, the French language which is the one in use, it is for this reason that we, gentlemen, pray you as well as M. Richard Winston, deputy lieutenant of the county, with your joint advice to consent to name or to form some kind of regulation by which we may be able to maintain good order among us, either by nam- ing some one amongst us or by allowing us to name one, who shall be
Page 295
A PETITION FOR CIVIL GOVERNMENT, JULY 9, 1782 295 par lequel moyen nous pouvrons vivre En union avec les autres villages et que la paix et la tranquille et le Bon ordre sera parmis nous même c'est notre sincere desire avec lequel nous avons Lhonneur dêtre avec un profonds respects Vos tres humbles & Et tres ob- eissans serviteurs signé James Moore te James Garitson FLENERY SAMUEL HENLEY FLENERY LATON WHITE ELENERY AARON POOR FLENERY JAMES GRAY Messieurs James Byron [MS. Ulegible) - Vu la requête cy dessus et de l'autre par la cours de ce dit District La qu'elle ordonne que Tous les cy dessus nommés ayant a se presenter En personne devant laditte cours ou un juge de paix qui le choiseront parmis Eux le septieme jour du mois d'aoust, prochain pour y pretter le serment de fidelité aux Etats et un autre serment de soutenir cette cours [Translation.] commissioned as is customary with the other villages. And that peace, tranquillity, and good order shall be among us is the sincere desire with which we have the honor to be, with profound respect,1 Gentlemen, your very humble and very obedient servants James Byron. (Signed) James Moore. [MS. illegible]— te. James Garitson. "Flenery. Samuel Henley. "Flenery. Laton White. "Flenery. Aaron Poor. "Flenery. James Gray. In consideration of the petition, above and on the other side, the Court of the aforesaid district orders that all the above named persons are to present themselves in person before the said Court, or by a justice of the peace whom they shall chose amongst themselves, on the seventh day of the month of next August, in order to take the oath of fidelity to 1 Comult 1II. Hist. Collections, ii., p. cxxii.
Page 296
296 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Mandons &c fait et donné En la ditte cours L'audiance y tenant le Mardy neuvième Juillit 1782 ANTOINE BaUVAIS J. P. [Translation.] the states and another oath to sustain this Court: we decree, etc. Done and given in the said Court, while in session, Tuesday, July 9, 1782. Antoine Bauvais, J. P. Election at Bellefontaine, August 5, 1782 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] Bellefontain August the 5th 1782 An Ellection was held for a Magistrate and the Voats stands as follows For Mr. Nicholas Smith, ten Voats For Mr. James Garretson, five Voats James Moore Capt. To the Worshipfull Court at Kaskaskias Francisco Cruzat to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 4, 1782 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] A L'illustre cour des Kaskaskias Messieurs, Les troubles survenus dernièrement sur Le Mississippi Par un nombre de rebelles et de Brigands qui commetent les hostilités les plus affreuses sur les sujets de sa Majesté catholique de cette colonie et qui sous le nom d'ameriquains vont se réfugier à nos Postes Pour ensuite [Translation.] To the Illustrious Court of Kaskaskia. Gentlemen: The troubles, which have taken place recently on the Mississippi, occasioned by a number of rebels and outlaws who are committing the most atrocious acts of hostility against the subjects of his Catholic Majesty belonging to this colony, some of whom, under the name of Americans, come to take refuge in our posts in order to give warning
Page 297
CRUZAT TO MAGISTRATES, AUGUST 4, 1782 297 donner avis à ces mêmes malfacteurs de nos manoeuvres afin qu'infor- més ils Puissent avec surété travailler à Nous Nuire se mêlant souvent eux mêmes avec ces bandes obligent le gouvernement gênerai de cette Province de Prendre les mesures les plus sages Pour mettre fin à ces pirateries et de donner des ordres Précis aux commandants des Postes subalternes Pour qu'ils arrêtent toutes personnes qui Passeront Par Leurs dits Postes sans un Passeport signé des commandants Espagnols en concequence je vous Préviens, Messieurs, Que toux ceux qui descend- ront de Votre Partie orientalle des Illinois à la Nouvelle Orléans ou à d'autres D'autres [sic] lieux de cette dittes Province sans mon Passeport seront arrêtés Par les commandants des Forts des deux rives du Missis- sipi ce qui pourroit Nuire beaucoup à Votre commerce et Pour qu'il ny ait aucune alternative Je vous expédierai à Votre gré les Passeports que Vous me demanderés Pour Le bas de la Susditte Province. J'ai l'honneur d'être avec considération Votre très humble & très Messieurs obéissant Serviteur S' Louis des Illinois Franco Cruzat le 4e août 1782. [Translation.] concerning our movements to those same malefactors, so that, being informed, they may be able with safety to work for our destruction. And since thèse men often unité with thèse bands, the central govern- ment of this province is obliged to take the safest measures to put an end to thèse acts of piracy and to give definite orders to the commandants of the subordinate posts to arrest ail persons who shall pass by their said posts without a passport signed by the Spanish commandants. Therefore, I give you warning, gentlemen, that ail those who shall go down from your eastern part of Illinois to New Orléans, or to other places of this said province, without my passport will be arrested by the com- mandants of the forts of both shores of the Mississippi. Since this action, for which there is no alternative, may harm considerably your commerce, I will draw up for you, at your pleasure, the passports for the lower part of the above mentioned province, which you may demand. I have the honor to be with considération, Gentlemen, your very humble and obedient servant, Franco Cruzat.1 St. Louis of Illinois, August 4, 1782. 1 Cruzat was the Spanish commandant at St. Louis. Consult the Index of Houck, Hist. of Mis* souri.
Page 298
298 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Francisco Cruzat to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 24 1782 [K. MSS.— A. L. S.] A Messieurs de L'ilustre Court des Kaskaskias Messieurs, Le Sr Auguste Chouteau Citoyen de ce Poste S* Louis va a votre ville Comme chargé de Procuration du Sr Charles Gratiot pour soliciter le payement par devant vous d'une Somme D'environs onze mille Livres qui Sont dues par Mr Carbonau au dl Sr gratiot en Conséquence j'espère Messieurs qu'en vertu de L'alliance qui reigne entre les états unis de L'amerique Septentrionalle et la Cour d'Espagne que vous voudres bien rendre au dl Sr Chouteau la même justice que je distribue avec légalité au Sujets ameriquains qui Se présentent a mon tribunal avec juste Cause et Comme celle qui fait agir le d4 Sr Chouteau est je crois Suffisament Constaté et légitime je Suis persuadé qu'il trouvera en vos lumières tout la justice qu'il peut espérer de L'équité de Ses demendes. je désire Messieurs que les occasions de vous témoigner les désirs que j'ai de vous Convaincre de mon dévouement Se présentent autant [Translation.] To the Gentlemen of the Illustrious Court of Kaskaskia. Gentlemen: M. Auguste Chouteau, a citizen of this post of St. Louis, goes to your village, intrusted with power of attorney by M. Charles Gratiot, to solicit before you the payment of a sum of some eleven thousand livres which M. Carbonneaux owes to the said M. Gratiot. Therefore, I hope, gentlemen, that in virtue of the alliance which reigns between the United States of North America and the court of Spain, you will be kind enough to render to the said M. Chouteau the same justice which I legally administer to American subjects who présent themselves with a just cause before my tribunal, and inasmuch as the cause which brings M. Chouteau is, I believe, sufficiently established and légal, I am persuaded that he will find before you ail the justice which he can expect from the equity of his demands. I désire, gentlemen, that the occasions of proving my désire to convince you of my zeal may présent themselves as many times as
Page 299
NOTICE OF SALE, AUGUST 24, 1782 299 de fois que je soits de vous prouver que j'ai L'honneur d'être avec une parfaite Consideration Messieurs, Votre très humble et très obéissant Serviteur Franco Cruzat a S* Louis des Illinois ce 24 aoust 1782. [Translation.] I am ready to prove to you that I have the honor to be, with a perfect consideration, gentlemen, Your very humble and very obedient servant, Franco Cruzat. At St. Louis of Illinois, August 24, 1782. Notice of Sale of Property of David Hicks, August 24, 1782 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] En vertu d'une ordonnance Emené fieri facias de la Cours de ce Dit District En datte du quinzième Mars dernier Et a la requisition du Sr. Joseph Labuxiere Pour lors Procureur de LEtat il sera procédé demain a Lissue de la prière de cette paroisse a la vente des effets appartenants a David Hicks confisqué pour cause de Vagabondage où toutes personnes seront reçu a Enchérir Et payant de prix de leur Enchère En piastres Bon Espagnols suif a vingt sols farine trent livres tout comptant avant de placer les Effets au Greffe de ce Dit District. KasKasKias le 24 aoust 1782 Carbonneaux Notaire [Translation.] In virtue of the issuance of an order fieri faciasl from the Court of this said District, dated the fifteenth of last March, and at the requisi- tion of M. Joseph Labuxiere, the present state's attorney, to-morrow after the close of mass in this parish, there shall take place a sale of the property belonging to David Hicks, which was confiscated for the cause of vagrancy, at which time all persons will be allowed to bid who pay the price of their bid in good Spanish piastres, reckoning tallow at twenty sols and flour at thirty livres, all in cash payments before the delivery of the property at the clerk's office of this district. Kaskaskia, August 24, 1782. Carbonneaux, Notary. 1 This may be the close of that prosecution of the Americans which began a year before, an account of which has been written by Miss May Allinson in the Transactions of the III. State Hist. Society, 1906, p. 358. The document used by Miss Allinson in writing the account is very long and full of rep- etitions; and no information, not to be found in the article with its numerous quotations, can be gleaned from the document itself. For these reasons it has been considered best to omit it from this collection.
Page 300
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Francisco Cruzat to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, September i, 1782 [K. MSS.— A. L. S.] Messieurs d'illustre Cour des Kaskaskias. Messieurs, Le Sr Auguste Chouteau Négociant de ce Poste S*Louis m'a présenté la requête que je vous envois ci jointe, à fin que vous ayez la complaisence de lui faire la justice q [MS. torn] éspére de vôtre Equité; et je suis persuadé que tant dans cette occasion, comme en toute autre vous voudrez bien concourrir avec moi à la Conservation de L'union, et bonne Corréspondence qui reigne entre nos deux parties, et dont nos Métropoles nous fournissent un puissant éxample que nous devons imiter en rendant réciproquement dans nos Tribunaux une aussi équitable justice aux Sujets de Sa Magesté très Catholique, qu'a ceux des Etats Unis de L'amerique Septrionale, par ce moyen nous éviterons de fâcheuses Conséquences à L'une, et à L'autre partie, qui est je crois le principal de nos devoirs, et Sur lequel table la félicité du pais, que de ma part je désire voire croître, et non troublée, pour me Conformer aux ordres que [MS. torn] reçu du Gouvernement général de cette prov- ince de la Louisianne J'ai L'honneur, etc. A S* Louis des ilinois ce 1 Sepfe 1782. Franco Cruzat [Translation.] To the Gentlemen of the Illustrious Court of Kaskaskia. Gentlemen: M. Auguste Chouteau, a merchant at the post of St. Louis, pre- sented to me the petition which I am sending you, herein enclosed, in order that you may be kind enough to do him the justice [which he] expects from your sense of justice; and I am persuaded that in this occa- sion, as in all others, you will co-operate with me in the preservation of the union and the good relations which exist between the two sides and of which our mother countries furnish us a striking example, which we must imitate by rendering in our tribunals on both sides a justice as equitable to the subjects of His Majesty Very Catholic as to the sub- jects of the United States of North America. By this means we shall avoid unpleasant consequences to both banks; and this is, I believe, our chief duty and on this depends the felicity of the country, which I desire to see growing and not troubled, so as to conform with the orders which [I have] received from the general government of this province of Louisiana. I have the honor, etc. At St. Louis of Illinois September 1, 1782. Franco Cruzat.
Page 300
Blank page
Page 300
c * ^ »£■*£* 4 3 14
This page contains an image.
Page 300
!' M tl' i;82 7,rt *■ Cour D<*s K ia v i non de» u1..' in 1 Sis Morin irt-J >• M. 'th.2mrr. . 1 1 " - i ;11 i. 5 ô !^ ! „ I l^r.-ruin Du-Lon La Chip,*. • r*ïri —;• jaitti yrrc T'\J i-- i hoftry Richar Chejmie ; / :_ / / I Sumendrc [?l Louy braso. tt. Monhrnn i 't rarsIa'Mi: ^T^™1 cr '~. • *.,--.-. . r.c ïi.ii 'i' v . tcd F.olu'u! il . - - - •
Page 300
FACSIMILE O'F BALLOT SHF.ET, SEPTEMBER 15, 1781
This page contains an image.
Page 301
AN ELECTION*, SEPTEMBER 15, 178a 301 Election, September 15, 1782 [K. MSS.— D. S.] 178a 7bre m 15 NoMinasion par Les abitan des Magistra pour La Cour Des KasKasKia SCavoir1 2-=ï I non des abitan1 Mr Morin [nc] J! Uif -Si 1 a a 1 1 Ô s .a 2r S. B I s 3 Su E-° f a n M. Thomer / 1 I / 1 / 1 Mr pilier / 1 1 / 1 / m. Vitalle bauvais.... 1 1 / 1 / / I / 1 1 / / Dumon / 1 l / 1 / / 1 1 / 1 S^jemme 1 / 1 janitpere / 1 l / 1 Colo- / 1 l / / Ate peltie / 1 1 / 1 / / 1 l / 1 pag<* / 1 / 1 / / / 1 i / / / 1 1 / / / 1 l / / Louy Dclillc / 1 1 / gagnie / 1 1 / 1 / I / / / 1 1 / / / 1 / 1 / / 1 Translation: September 15, 1782. Nomination, by the inhabitants, of the magistrates for the Court of Kaskaskia. To wit: 2 Names of the inhabitants. s Jean Bte. St. Gemme BauYais. ■Francois Corset was elected according to the certificate at the end of the document. His name does not appear on the ballot sheet, but Colo seems to have received sufficient votes to be elected. Probably this stands for Colonel and is a title given to Corset.
This page contains an image.
Page 302
302 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS [Continuée on the reverse.] Suite de lautre par' Lonval Charlc Bte pierre Le borgne Charleville Janise Langlois Suite de St. jemme Des Noos. III Suite de Mr Colo / Suite de maroy / Suite de riebar / Suite de Cheynie / Suite de Bte janise / Louy delile / gagne / Louy braso Suite En Vertu de L'élection du quinzième du Présent mois mil sept Cent quatrevingt deux Le Public assemblé a nommé Pour Magistrats de la Cour du district des KasKasKias Les sieurs aimé Lecomte pour Président de La Comté, du Dit District Et Les Sieurs vital Beauvais Jean Bapte Beauvais, françois Charleville, francois Corset Louis Bra- zeaux Et antoine Morin Pour magistrats qui ont Prêté Le Serment d'once, Et de fidélité Et [sic] cette qualité a La Republique de la Virginie Les quels Sont a L'instant comparu Et ont signé Les dts Jours Et an sus dit Vitale Bauvais jean baptiste bauvais FR CHARLEVILLE AIMÉ COMTE [Endorsed:] Election faite des magistrat de la Cour des District des KasKasKias le isme 7bre 1782 [Translation.] In virtue of the élection of the fifteenth of the présent month, 1782, the public assembly has named for magistrates of the court of the Dis- trict of Kaskaskia M. Aymé Comte for président of the court of the said district and MM. Vital Bauvais, Jean Baptiste Bauvais, François Charleville, François Corset, Louis Brazeaux, and Antoine Morin for magistrates, who have taken the oath of office and of fidelity in'this quality to the Republic of Virginia; and they have now appeared and have signed the above said day and year. Vital Bauvais. Jean Baptiste Bauvais. Fr. Charleville. Aymé Comte. [Endorsed:] Election made of Magistrates of the Court of the District of Kaskaskia, September 15, 1782 1 Translation: Brought forward from the other side of the paper. Here the ballot sheet is reversed and the names of the candidates are in the vertical column and the names of the voters at the top of the page.
Page 303
CARBONNEAUX TO THE COURT, SEPT. 15, 1782 303 CARBONNEAUXtO THE MAGISTRATES OF THE COURT AT KaSKASKIA, September 15, 1782. [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] Messieurs, Mes affaires Particulières me Donnent Beaucoup d'occupations Qui m'obligent de vous prévenir que par la présente Je remets a la Cour La charge de Greffier Dont J'avois été pourvu par [MS. illegible] En conséquence ces mêmes affaires m'occupent tellement qu'elles ne Peuvent me les laisser un moment vastes, C'est Pourquoy Messieurs Je vous préviens que la Cours aye a se pourvoir D'une autre Place pour y tenir sceance Ce qui me mortifie Beaucoup de ne pouvoir obliger Le Public comme J'ai cy devant fais. J'ai L'honneur d'être avec respect Messieurs Votre très humble Et très obéissant serviteur CARBONNEAUX KasKasKias 16 7bre 1782 Enregistre au Greffe de la Conte des Illinois Pages 19, folio 45 Par nous notaire Public et Greffier de la Contée des Illinois KasKasKias le seizième 7bremil sept cent Quatrevingt deux. CARBONNEAUX Greffier de la Conté. [Translation.] Gentlemen: My private affaire keep me so busy that they oblige me to notify you by this letter that I resign to the Court the office of clerk to which office I was appointed by [you]. Because thèse same affairs keep me so busy that they do not leave me a spare moment, therefore, gendemen, I notify you that the Court should provide for itself some other place for holding its sessions. I regret very much not to be able to serve the people as heretofore. I have the honour to be with respect, Gentlemen, your very humble and very obedient servant, CARBONNEAUX. Kaskaskia, September 16, 1782. Registered in the clerk's office of the County of Illinois, page 19, folio 45 by us notary public and clerk of the County of Illinois. CARBONNEAUX, Clerk of the County. /
Page 304
3o4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Richard Winston to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, September 17, 1782 [M. C, T. MSS.— A. D. S.] Messieurs, C'est avec Joye que J'ay vu L'issu de L'assemblée que vous avez fait pour Elire Les nouveaux Magistrats; ma j'oye a été encore plus grande en Voyant que nos concitoyens ont choisi des brave gens digne de confience de tout Le monde et que leurs Sentiments Sera de Soutenir la Police ainsi que de rendre La Justice impartialle Et Le bon ordre a touttes Personnes qui paraîtrons dans votre tribunal; que les Plaignant, ou defandant, Soit de L'autre Rive ou de Cette cy. Car il Est de notre devoir de maintenir la bonne Intelligence Entre nous, nos amis, et alliés, Messieurs les Espagnol. Vu que votre assemblée est assé Emple pour réfléchir, et consider, touttes les circonstances qui concerne L'administration de La Justice, C'est pourquoy Je vous prie, Messieur de Nommer un huissier, ou plus cy vous le Jugé Convenable, pour porter vos assignations, ainsy que de faire mettre a Execution toutte Les Sentences de La Cour; Jusqu'à présent nous avons Expérience que Les officiers de Milice ainsy que les f usiniers ont été toujours Prest a Soutenir Les Magistrats; [Translation.] Gentlemen: It is with joy that I have seen the resuit of the assembly which you held to elect the new magistrates. My joy was even greater on seeing that our fellow-citizens have chosen honest men worthy of the confi- dence of everybody and that their sentiment will be in favor of sustain- ing the police as well as to render impartial justice and good order to ail persons who shall appear in your tribunal, whether the plaintiffs or défendants be of the other bank or of this; for it is our duty to keep on good terms with our friends and allies, the Spaniards. Seeing that your assembly is large enough to reflect upon and con- sider ail the circumstances which concern the administration of justice, I beg of you, gentlemen, to name a huissier, or more if you deem it necessary, to serve your summons as well as to put into exécution ail the sentences of the Court. Up to the présent we have found that the military officers as well as the fusiliers have always been ready to sustain the magistrates.
Page 305
SUMMONS TO THE JUDGES, SEPTEMBER 17, 1782 305 Je souhaite que Le Zel avec Le quel Vous vous étent Comporté jusqu'a present pour La Cause Commune continuera, et que l'union, et la bonne harmonie, reignera parmi nous, Ce Sont les Désirs ardens de celuy qui a L'honneur d'être avec une Estime Sincere. Messieurs votre très humble Et tres obeissant Seriteur Rich. Winston KasKasKias Le 17me 7bre 1782. [Addressed:] A Messieurs les Magistrats de la Respectable Cour de District des Kaskaskias. [Endorsed:] Lettre de Monsieur Winston Ecritte a Messieurs Les magistrats de la cour des Kaskaskias. [Translation.] I hope that the zeal with which you have comported yourselves, till now, for the common cause will continue, and that union and good harmony will reign among us; these are the earnest desires of him who has the honor to be, with a sincere esteem, Gentlemen, your very humble and very obedient servant, Richard Winston. Kaskaskia, September 17, 1782. [Addressed:] To the Magistrates of the Honorable Court of the District of Kaskaskia. [Endorsed:] Letter of M. Winston written to the Magistrates of the Court of Kaskaskia. Richard Winston Issues a Summons to the Judges, September 17, 1782. [M. C, T. MSS.— A. D. S.] A Messieurs Jean Baptist Beauvais, Louis Brazeau Francois Charle- ville et Corset MESSD2URS, Ayent Eté Choisi Par le Peuple pour leurs Juge et Magistrate il [Translation.] To Messieurs Jean Baptiste Bauvais, Louis Brazeaux, François Charleville and Corset. Gentlemen: Since you have been chosen by the people for their judges and magis-
Page 306
306 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS vous est aincy Enjoynt de vous y Trouver ce matin a la Cour Pour Preter le Serment Prescrit et prendre Siege Richd Winston Mardy 17™" 7bre 1782 [Translation.] trates, you are herewith summoned to appear in Court this morning to take the prescribed oath and to enter into your office.1 Richard Winston. Tuesday, September 17, 1782. François Carbonneaux Sells the Notariat, September 18, 1782 [K. MSS — Court Record, f. 2 *] Quil soit notoire a tout qu'il appartiendra scavois que nous françois Carbonneaux notaire public et greffier En toute La Contée des Illinois au District des KasKasKia y resident soussigné paroise de l'immaculée Conception de notre dame declarons et Confesson Par ces presentes avoir livré vendu ceddé et transporté notre Etude Et greffe avec tous les autres offices De notaire cy joints Et tous les pouvoirs dont nous sommes revetus les droits attachés au notariat pour l'espace d'une année plus ou moins datte des dittes presentes sans en excepter aucuns que Le droit De travailler d'ycy a notre prochain depart de ce lieu comme cy devant a M. [Translation.] Let it be known to all whom it may concern that we, François Car- bonneaux, notary public and clerk in all the County of Illinois in the District of Kaskaskia, there residing in the parish of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady, declare and confess by these presents that we have delivered, sold, ceded, and transferred our practice and files with all the other functions of notary therewith joined, all the powers with which we are invested, and the rights attached to the notariat, for the space of one year, more or less, dating from these presents, without withholding any of them except the right to practice as herebefore between now and the time of our departure, to M. Pierre Langlois, 1 It will be noticed by the election sheet that besides these four .Antoine Morin and Vital Bau- vais were also elected. Pcrhaps Winston thought they were not eligible, since they had served as judges previously. The Court paid no attention to this omission by Winston, and both acted as justices. See post, p. 309; also/ti. Hist. Collections, ii-, cxvi. 2 Towards the end of this court record the numbers of the folios begin again at one, since a new clerk, Pierre Langlois, came into office.
Page 307
CARBONNEAUX SELLS NOTARIAT SEPTEMBER 18, 1782 307 Pierre Langlois a le présent acceptant pour luy ses hoirs Et ayans Caus- es Les dits notariat greffe et autres papiers y joints pour prix et sommes de Deux milles livres que ledit Sr. Langlois a compte a [Line missing] payment dun restant de billet dont il En est Content et satisfait dont ledit vendeur quitte Ledit Sr. achepteur lui Et tout autre quil appartien- dra dont quittance &c Et par claux Expresse Entre Lesdits vendeur et achepteur, s'il arrivoit que Led* Carbonneaux vienderoit a rambourcer audit achepteur Laditte somme de deux milles livres, Ledit achepteur soblige lui remettre avant où après l'année Expire En quelque temps qu'il pourra luy remettre La ditte somme tous papiers greffe charge office qu'il reçoit le présent jour avec tous ceux qu'il pourra faire pendant sa joissance En qualité soit de notaire ou de greffier Car ainsy a Eté con- venus Et accordé Entre les parties Et pour L'Execution des présentes &c promettant &c obligeant &c fait et passé En Etude du dit notaire soussigné l'an de grâce Sept cent quatrevingt deux Et le dix huitième jour du mois de Septembre après midy et avons signés après Lecture fait. [ Translation.] who accepts for his heirs and assigns the said notariat, office, and other papers joined thereto, for the price and sum of two thousand livres, which the said M. Langlois has accounted [line missing] payment re- maining of the note with which he is content and satisfied and for which the seller gives the purchaser and any other whom it may concern a quittance, etc. And by an express clause made between the said seller and purchaser it is understood that, if the said Carbonneaux should reimburse the said purchaser the said sum of two thousand livres, the said purchaser binds himself to return to the said seller, at any time before or after the expiration of the year, ail the papers, files, functions and office, which he received the présent day, together with ail those papers which he may hâve dravvn up during his enjoyment of the office either of notary or of clerk; for so ft has been covenanted and agreed between the parties. And for the exécution of the présents, etc., prom- ising, etc., binding, etc. Done and passed in the study of the said notary undersigned, the year of grâce 1782, and the eighteenth day of the month of September, in the afternoon; and we have signed after the reading thereof was made.
Page 308
308 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Témoins Js Page signé Carbonneaux P. Richard. signé p™ Langlois Enregistré le septième de Xbre 1782. [Translation.] Witnesses, Jos. Page (Signed) Carbonneaux P. Richard. (Signed) Pierre Langlois. Recorded December 7, 1782.1 Pages from the Court Record of Kaskaskia, June 20-November 26, 1782 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] . . . Jacquemin En la ditte cours les quels après avoir pretté sur les Evangelistes Du grand Dieu tout puissant le Serment de fidélité et d'office ont prit séance a la cours En qualité de Juges a paix et Magistrats du District des KasKasKias et ont signé les dits Jour et an susdit après avoir présenté a la Ditte Cours leur Election et nomination Aymé Comte Jiovani Baptista Jacomini antoine bauvais, j. p. La Cours a été renvoyé a Vendredy Vingt huitième Jour du mois [Translation.] . . . Jacomini in the said court, who after having taken the oath of allegiance and of office upon the Evangelists of the Almighty God, took their places in the Court in the quality of justices of the peace and magistrates of the District of Kaskaskia; and they have signed on the aforesaid day and year, after having presented to the said Court the certificate of their élection and their nomination. Aymé Comte Jiovani Baptiste Jacomini Antoine Bauvais, Justice of the Peace. The Court adjourned to Friday, June 28. 1 There follows in the court record a copy of the pétition of Pierre Langlois to Richard Winston, county-llcutenant, to be commissioned as notary and clerk; and a copy of the commission issued by Richard Winston, both dated December 7, 1782.
Page 309
COURT RECORD, JUNE 20-NOVEMBER 26, 1782 309 Juin KasKasKias le vingtième Jour du mois de Juin mil sept cent quatre vingt deux. ANTOINE BAUVAIS J. P. a une Cours tenue au District des KasKasKias En la Comtée des Illinois le Vendredy vingt huitième Jour du mois de Juin mil sept cent quatrevingt deux furent presens antoine Beauvais antoine Morin Vitale Beauvais et Stanislas levasseur tous Ecuyers et Magistrats du dit District. La Cours a été renvoyé a Lundy huiteme Jour du mois juilliet prochain KasKasKias le vingt huiteme juin mil sept cent Quatre vingt deux. antoine Beauvais J. P. a une Cours tenue le lundy huitième Jour du mois de Juilliet au Dis- trict des KasKasKias mil sept cent quatre vingts deux furent presens antoine beauvais vital Beauvais Pierre Picard et Stanislas Levasseur tous Magistrats du district Des KasKasKias. Lan mil sept cent quatrevingts deux et Le huitième Jour du mois de Juillet au Environ huit heures du matin sont comparu En la Cours du- dit District Des KasKasKias Laudience y tenant ce dit Jour Mre Jean baptiste Laffont Et Pierre Langlois les quels ont été assigné a y com- [Translation.] Kaskaskia, June 20, 1782. Antoine Bauvais, J. P. In a session of the Court held in the District of Kaskaskia in the County of the Illinois, on Friday, June 28, 1782, there were présent: Antoine Bauvais, Antoine Morin, Vital Bauvais, and Stanislas Levas- seur, ail of them esquires and magistrates of the said district. The Court adjourned to Monday, July 8, next. Kaskaskia, June 28, 1782. Antoine Bauvais, J. P. At a session of the Court held on Monday, July 8, in the District of Kaskaskia there were présent: Antoine Bauvais, Vitale Bauvais, Pierre Picard, and Stanislas Levasseur, ail magistrates of the District of Kas- kaskia. In the year 1782, on the 8th of July about eight o'clock in the morn- ing there appeared in Court of the said District of Kaskaskia, the Court being in session on that day, MM. Jean Baptiste Laffont and Pierre Langlois, who were summoned to appear on that day, at the réquisition
Page 310
3io ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS paroitre ce dit Jour a la réquisition du sr. nicolas lachanse Le quel leur a représenté La vente d'une habitation passé par Maître feu Joseph viaux Lemérance notaire public le Deuxième jour du mois de Mars mil sept cent Soixante quatorze pareillement La vente de plusieurs Exclaves meubles linges et utensilles de [word illegible] Privé Par La Dame veuve Crely En faveur dudit Sr. Lachanse Les quel a fait Exposer devant les dits susnommés Les quels après serment par eux fait l La Cour a été Renvoyé a Deux heures après midy vingt deux du présent mois du Novembre mil sept cent quatrevingt deux. Aymé Comte La cour continue a deux heure après midy vingt deux du présent La Cour a été Renvoyé a mardy Prochain vingt sixième Jour du mois de Novembre a noeuf [sic] heure du matin mil sept cent quatrevingt deux. Aymé Comte A une Cour tenu au district des KasKasKias en comtée des Illinois Le vingt Sixième Jour du mois de novembre a Noeuf heure du Matin furent Présent aymé Comte Président, Jean Bapt. Jacquemin, vital Beauvais, J. Bapte Beauvais Et françois Corset, antoine Morin tous Ecuyer Et Magistrats du Dt. District. [Translation.] of M. Nicolas Lachanse, who exhibited to them the sale of a dwelling drawn up by the late Master Joseph Viaux Lesperance, notary public, March 2,1774, and likewise the sale of several slaves, furniture, clothing, and utensils of [MS. illegible] private, and sold by the widow Creilley in favor of the said M. Lachanse, who caused this to be shown before the aforenamed, who in turn, after having taken oath * The Court adjourned to two o'clock in the afternoon of Novenber 22, 1782. Aymé Comte. The Court continues at two o'clock of the afternoon of the présent. Court adjourned to Tuesday next, November 26,1782, at nine in the morning. Aymé Comte. At a Court held in the District of Kaskaskia in the County of the Illinois, at nine o'clock of the twenty-sixth day of November, there were présent Aymé Comte, président, Giovani Baptista Jacomini, Vital Bau- vais, J. Baptiste Bauvais, François Corset, and Antoine Morin, ail of 1 Thcsc pages of the record are torn and are not consécutive.
Page 311
THE MAGISTRATES TO CRUZAT, OCTOBER 5, 1782 311 La Cour continue a deux heure après midy vingt Six du Present Aymé Comte A une cour tenu au district des KasKasKias a deux heure de Relevée ce jourd'huy vingt sixieme Jour du mois de Novembre [Translation.] them esquires and magistrates of the said district. The Court continues at two o'clock in the afternoon of twenty-sixth of the present. Aymé Comte. At a session held in the District of Kaskaskia at two o'clock in the afternoon of November 26.1 The Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia to Francisco Cruzat, October 5, 1782 [K. MSS.— A. L.] Mr Dn Cruzat Monsieur Nous avons Reçu L'honneur de Vôtre Lettre en datte du 30. 7 bre dernier, ainsy que les Requete des sieurs Cerré et D'atchurut, après avoir murement Examiné Les pieces que Le Sieur Cerré nous a Exibé, nous avons ordonné au Sr Pagé de Paroitre a la Cour Prochaine 25me du present ne pouvant plutôt pour Repondre au Demandes du Sieur Cerré, tant qu'a la saisie du Negre Nous laissons cette affaire a Vôtre disposition connaissant que vous avez plus detendue sur la Loix Pour Savoir si les demandes du Sieur D'atchurut Est Guste ainsy que celle du sieur Cerré; [Translation.] M. Cruzat, Sir: We received your letter dated the 3oth of last September, together with the petition of MM. Cerré and Datchurut. After having care- fully examined the papers presented by M. Cerré, we ordered M. Pagé to appear in the next court, the 25th of this month, not being able to answer sooner the demands of M. Cerré. As for the seizure of the negro, we leave that affair to be disposed of by you, since we know that you have more comprehension of the law, so that you can know whether the demands of M. Datchurut as well as those of M. Cerré, are just. 1 This is the last session of the Court until 1787. At this time or soon after this Richard Winston abolished the Court of the District of Kaskaskia. For particulars, consult III. Hist. Collections, il., cxvii.
Page 312
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Nous avons L'honneur d'être avec toutte la consideration Possible Monsieur Votre humble & tres obeissant Serviteur Kaskaskias le 5me 8bre I?82. [Translation.] We have the honor to be with all the consideration possible, Sir, your very humble and very obedient servants, Kaskaskia, October 5, 1782.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 313
CHAPTER IX THE COMING OF THE COMMISSIONERS FROM VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER, 1782, TO MARCH, 1783 The Shyness of the Witnesses — Winston and Carbonneaux Prepare to Go to Virginia — The Commissioners Send an Announcement to Illinois — Winston Confers his Commission of County-Lieutenant on De Monbreun — Letters Concerning the Services of the New County-Lieutenant — The Inhabitants Send Two Memorials to the Commissioners — Dodge Writes of his Accounts — The Representatives from Illinois Are Late — The Death of Richard Winston. William Fleming to the Governor of Virginia, November, 1781 [Draper MSS., 46J73.— A. L. S.] Lincoln County Novr 1783 Sir,' I accknowledge the receipt of Your Excellencys favour of Octr 16th which I laid before the board, when near seventy miles on the Journy.1 I received a letter from Mr G Smith declining his appoint- ment as a Commissr which put it out of my power to supply the vacancy, and remains unfilled, as I shall always avoid incurring unnecessary expense I made no use of Your Excellencys order on the Commanding Officer of Washington county for an escort, some favourable circum- stances made us venture through the Wilderness in rather too small a party, we got into this country in 23 days but have done little business since we came, occasioned by the strength of the Counties being drawn out against the Shawnise towns. Gen1 Clark returned some days past. I am apprehensive the business will be considerably retarded by the death of several Gentlemen who would have thrown light on many transactions, by the death of others who were concerned, and by the dispersion of some of the principals. Col° Montgomery who was gone 1 For information concerning the commission appointed by the governor of Virginia to investi- gate the expense account of the western department, see 111. Hist. Collections, ii„ p. czix. The nu- merous letters and other documents concerning the investigation will be printed in the volumes of George Rogers Clark's Papers being prepared for the Collections by Professor J. A. James. 313
Page 314
3i4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS to Georgia when we came through Washington is wrote to requiring his attendance. Cap1 George went with the Chickasaw Indians and is not expected before Christmas. Cap1 Elliot who I believe was never in the service of this State is perhaps in Philadelphia. Dodge who is in the Illinois is summoned. The backwardness of those whose con- duct is to be scrutinized will add to the delay, from what light we have got, there has been the greatest abuses committed in several depart- ments which we hope to develope. Mr Rowland Madison who moved in part of his Esteat this fall with design to become an inhabitant is unprepared to settle his accounts, having left his books in Botetourt, expecting to have them adjusted by the board of war, is candid enough to give us room to suspect the greatest dissipation of stores &c: intrusted to him, he is required to lay his Accounts before us as soon as possible, it may not be amiss if we had transmitted to us a duplicate of the Stores sent for the supply of the troops on this quarter, a considerable quantity of linen &c: I recollect was sent up by Cap* Evans if I remember his name, perhaps some by Mr Madison. The printed advertisements not coming to hand before the end of Sepf makes it necessary to send some by express to the Illinoise they are addressed to the Court at Kas- kaskias & Col° Le Grass at Sl Vincent a copy of which is enclosed, the latter part of which was wrote in consequence of a paragraph in Your Excellencys favour of Ocf 16th last. It is rumoured Le Grass is soon to be at the Falls of Ohio with some Peankeshaw Indians, neither Mr Pollock, Mr Barber, nor Mr Shannon are in the Country at this time, so that it is impossible to Judge when we shall be able to finish. I shall be under a great difficulty in supplying Mr Smiths place properly should any of the Gentlemen from indisposition be unable to go through the business especially as Mr Marshall is obliged sometimes to attend the duties of his Office, two Acts of Assembly passed last May, that relate to the Militia the Commissioners have not seen. If they are necessary, or should anything pass in the present Session, which they ought to know, they hope Your Excellency will order copies to be sent them. We design to be at the Falls ye 15th of Jany which will be as soon as the Messenger can return from Kaskaskias & in the meantime, if possible get in the business of Lincoln & Fayette counties, As Opportunities will be less frequent or none at all for some months, I have crowded all that occurs to me at present, which may give Your Excellency an idea of our situation with regard to the business we came
Page 315
A COMMISSION, DECEMBER 3, 1782 315 here to settle & hints for any further instructions you may be pleased to favour us with, when we return I expect we may have papers of con- sequence which may not be safe to trust without a guard. I wish Your Excellencys orders for one to the Commanding Officer of Lincoln County which I shall only make use of in case of necessity. I did not mention that Lindsey has no book of his transactions only loose scraps of paper which we have been able to get in our possession and both Harrison & him being killed their affairs are in the greatest confusion, particular notice shall be paid to Your Excellencies last favour, I have the Honor to be with great respect Your Excellencys most Ob* Serv A Copy Willm Fleming 1 [Addressed:] His Excellency The Governor. a Coppy — Commission as Agents to Richard Winston and François Carbonneaux, December 3, 1782 [C. C, Pp. xxx., 459.— A. L. S.] Nous Les soussignés habitans du district des KasKasKias En La comtée des illinois, députons Les Sieurs Richard Winstons Et françois Carbonnaux pour faire En notre nom toutes les Demandes Et repre- sentations quils jugeront nécessaires pour le bien Etre de la ditte Comtée, nous leurs recommandons particulièrement D'exposer à nos Souverains seigneurs, soit du Congrès general des Etats unis De l'amer- ique ou De la province de la Virginie, à quique se puise Etre d'où Le gouvernement de cette Comtée dépends de protester Et Demander [ Translation.] We, the undersigned inhabitants of the District of Kaskaskia in the County of Illinois, appoint MM. Richard Winston and François Car- bonneaux to make in our name all demands and representations that they may deem necessary for the welfare of the said county. We recommend to them in particular, to present [our grievances] to our sovereign seigniors, either of the General Congress of the United States of America or the Province of Virginia, or from whomever it may be that the government of this county depends; to protest and to demand the 1 This copy is in the handwriting of William Fleming himself.
Page 316
3i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS l'assistance du gouvernement pour quil nous accorde leurs protections pour maintenir Et soutenir La cours qui reste sans Execution De ses ordonnances, pour reprimer Et arrêter Les crimes énormes qui se com- mettent dans ce pays qui ne peut se soutenir sans ce secours, pareille- ment de nômer un lieutenant ou un gouverneur tel qu'il plaira a nos seigneurs de nous l'envoyer, ainsy qu'une personne qui Entende bien notre Langage pour présider a notre Cours. Et que toute notre Comtée ne fasse qu'un seul District Et que dans chaque village il n'y ait qu'un seul juge à paix qui décidera telle sommes qui se présentera devant lui, pourveu qu'elle soit Conçue en billiet ou obligation; nous experons que nos dits seigneurs, lors qu'ils apprendront par nos députés Les maux Et Souffrances que La partialité Et lignorance de ceux qui nous gouvernent nous font souffrir par le peu d'experiance quils ont de ladministration de la justice quil y a En cette Colonie par faute d'y avoir des gens Capables Et experimantés dans Les loix françoises qui sont Les Coutumes de cette Comtée; Et dy soutenire l'honneur du gouvernement plus que persuadé que nos seigneurs voudront bien avoir quellesques Commisserations pour Les dits soussignés les quels ne [Translation.] assistance of the government, so that they may grant us their protection to sustain and maintain the court, whose decrees are not executed; to suppress and stay the awful crimes which are being committed in this country which cannot sustain itself without this help; likewise to name a lieutenant or a governor whichever it may please our seigniors to send to us, as well as some person who understands our language well to préside in our court; and to pétition that ail our county be made only one district, and that in each village there be only one justice of the peace, who shall décide cases involving such sums that may be brought before him, provided they be expressed in notes or bonds. When our seigniors shall learn through our deputies of the evils and sufferings which we hâve undergonc on account of the préjudice and ignorance of those who govern us as well as by that lack of expérience in the admin- istration of justice which is found in this colony, because of the lack of capable men experienced in the French laws of this county, we trust [that they will take compassion on us] and maintain here the honor of the government. We are more than persuaded that our seigniors will
Page 317
A PROCLAMATION, DECEMBER 4, 1782 317 Cesseront de faire Les veux les plus ardens pour leurs Conservations. KasKasKias le 3e X15"1782. Guyd Garard sa marque Joseph Dupuis sa marque Raimond Labrier sa marque Nicolas Canada sa marque Nicholas Smyth Enri Richard sa X Blouin fils Bienvenus fils Henry Smith John Boyd John Cleark Fredk S Guion P. Richard Pr Langlois Gerard Langlois John Williams Jas. Willey. [Endorsed:] No. 18 Memol. Inhabitants of KasKasKias 9 Decr. 1782. [Translation.] have some commiseration for the undersigned, who will not cease mak- ing the most fervent vows for their preservation. Kaskaskia, December 3, 1782.1 Gcyd Gerard, his mark. Joseph Dupuis, his mark. Raymond Labrdjre, his mark. Nicolas Canada, his mark. Nicholas Smyth. Henri Richard, his mark. Blouin, Junior. Bœnvenu, Junior. Henry Smith. John Boyd. John Clark. Fred S. Guion. P. Richard. Pierre Langlois. Gerard Langlois. John Williams. Jas. Willey. Proclamation of Virginia Commissioners, Dec . 4, 1782 [K. MSS.— Copy.] Lincoln Conty 1782 Le pouvoir nous ayant Eté donné Et instructions par Son Exelence Le gouverneur Et Conseil, pour Examiner Les Comptes de tous Les [Translation.] Lincoln County, 1782. Power and instructions have been given us by his Excellency, the Governor, and the Council, to examine the accounts of all civil and milt- • This list of signers represents the faction which had supported the county lieutenant, Richard Winston. There are eleven Frenchmen and six Americans. Of these, seven of the Frenchmen and four of the Americans signed the petition of the faction of John Dodge of 1784. (See post, p. 367.) For a list of the French faction, see post, p. 344. A history of these factions may be found in III. Hist. Collections, ii., p. cxvii., n. 2.
Page 318
318 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS officiers civil et militaires, ainsi que Les Comptes que Ceux qui ont Eu trensaction Sur Les Eaux de ouest. Comme L'occasion est requis de Sommer Les temoinage. nous fesons Savoir au public et a touttes personnes que cette affaire Concerne que nous nous rassemblons a La Chute dans La belle rivière, Dans La Conté-de Jéfferson Le 15 Jour de Jenvier prochain, pour faire nos devoirs Comme nos Commission le porte. Nous mandons a touttes personnes qui ont des Comptes ou létre dexange Contre les Etats, Sans Etre arrangé, ainsy que Ceux a qui il est due par quelque Crédit, de venir avec leur Comptes lettre d'échange ou Sertificat pour Etre ajusté, aucune Debtes de quelque nature que ce Soit, poura Etre payé a Richmond, Exepté ire quels nayent Eté Exam- iné, et Liquidé. Et Sertifié par nous. William Fleming Donné Sous nos mains Samuel Mcdowell Le 4e décembre de Lanné 1782. Caleb Wallace [Translation.] tary officers as well as the accounts of those who have had transactions on the western waters. As it is required that we summon witnesses, we make it known to the public and to ail persons whom this affair may con- cern that we will hold a meeting at the Falls of the Ohio River, in the County of Jéfferson, on the fifteenth of next January, in order to do our duty as our commission requires. We command ail persons who have accounts or letters of exchange against the states, which have not been settled, as well as those to whom something is due through crédit, to corne with their accounts, letters of exchange, or certificates so that they may be adjusted. No debt, of whatever nature it be, will be paid at Richmond except that it be first examined, determined, and certified by us. Given under our hands, this fourth of December, 1782. William Fleming. Given under my hand, Samuel McDowell. December 4, 1782. Caleb Wallace.
Page 319
COMMISSIONERS TO COURT, DECEMBER 4, 1782 319 The Virginia Commissioners to the Court at Kaskaskia, December 4, 1782 [K. MSS.— Copy.] The Honorable Court at Kaskaskias Lincoln County Decr 4th 1782 Gentlemen, The State of Virginia fully Sensible of the Inconvenience every Indi- vidual must suffer who lie out of Money or Goods advanced for the Sup- port of their Troops while in your Country, occasioned by the great Dis- tance from the Kaskaskias to the Seat of Government, and of course, the great delay in getting those Accounts settled, have ordered a Board of Commissioners to attend at some convenient place in the Western Coun- try to receive adjust & Liquidate all Accounts, against the Common- wealth of Virginia; in order that they may be finally settled, when presented at Richmond. We take the Liberty by Your means, Gentle- men, to make the Intentions of Virginia known inclosing You some Ad- vertisements desiring you will be pleased to send one of them to Kohos, and as in the course of Trade many of our Bills may be in the hands of the subjects of Spain, also to transmit an Advertisement to S* Louis that the Spanish Gentlemen concerned may have information. We have sent by this Messenger to S* Vincents, And we shall be happy if we can be of service to the Inhabitants of the Illinois by stating Matters of Fact, and representing any grievances to which they have been subjected under the Government of Virginia. With respect, we are Gentlemen,1 Your most Hum1 Servants. A copy by order of the Board William Fleming John M'dowell Secy Saml M'dowell Caleb Wallace 1 From a careful examination of the foregoing documents, it is evident that Winston and Car- bonneaux had determined to go to Virginia some weeks before the news of the appointment of the western commissioners reached Kaskaskia. That news probably first came in the above letter, which may not have been delivered until late in January. See post, 328.
Page 320
320 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Commission of County-Lieutenant by Richard Winston to Timothé de Monbreun, January 18, 1783 [Va. State Library.— Attested Copy.] A Monsieur Monsieur de Monbreun officier au Service de L Etat aux Kaskakias. Monsieur, Comme je suis au moment d'être Sur mon départ pour Le gouverne- ment et que je Suis chargé de Commision et député lieutenant de Comté des Ilinois Je présume qu'il m'est Indispensable de Substitur dautres en ma place pour L'intérêt public a fin d éviter quelque molestations qui pouroient arriver pendant mon absence Je Seroit mortiffié que Le peuple vint a Souffrire sil ny auroit Personne pour exercer cette charge en Con- cequence je ne crois pas pouvoire mieux m'adreser qua vous, Monsieur pour faire exécuter cet employ Latachment et le zele que vous avez témoigné dans plusieur occasions pour Le Service de letat nous donne des preuves Suffisantes de votre Capacité Intègre. il ne vous est pas difficile dexercer Cette fonction ainsi Monsieur Je vous prie d'avoire pour agréable d'accepter cette présente Commission pour votre athorite [sic] étant chose nécessaire pour le Bien public et au [Translation — Attested.] To M. de Monbreun,1 Officer in the service of the State at Kaskaskia. Sir, At The moment of my being about to Départ for The Seat of Govern- ment when I consider myself as charged with The Commission of Depu- ty Lieutenant to the County of Illinois I think it an indispensable Duty to substitute some Person or Persons to act in my stead and place for the public Good in Order to prevent any molestations That may happen during my Absence. As it would mortify me, that the People should Suffer because there was no Person authorized to fill that Place, now I am pursuaded I cannot apply to any Person with more Propriety for preforming the Duties of my Office than to You, Sir, as The Attachment and Zeal to the public good you have shewn on several Occasions furnish us with sufficient Proofs of your Abilities & Integrity. It will not be a difficult Matter for you to fill this Office, I therefore request You, Sir, to accept of Thèse Présents which authorize you to it, 1 The full name is Jacques Timothé Boucher, Sieur de Monbreun. For biographical notice, sec 2U. Hisl. Collections, ii., pp. xix., cxxiv.
Page 321
DE MONBREUN'S COMMISSION, JANUARY 18, 1783 321 Soutient De la Cause Commune des états Unis de Lamerique. Dans toute occasion qui pouroit Le présenter pour les Interest du peuple qui requerrera votre protection ainsi qui pour Soutenire la Cause des Etats, vous agiere de le procureur de letat, les officies de milice et les habitans le plus anciens pour délibérer ensemble Sur le parti le plus convenable a prendre Concernant les affaire qui pouroient Le présenter. Pour vos guides Je ne peut mieux vous donner que le code des loix et articles de droit que Son Excelance Le gouverneur a Envoyé ici et qui doit être au greffe de la cour que vous Consulteres de tems en tems, les quels vous mitegeres autant que posible aux ancien usages et coutumes de ce pays; Joint a votre Jurisprudence vous ne pour pour'er [sic] pas tomber enfaute. Je ne pourois trop vous recommander le meilleur inteligence posible Entre vous et nos voisins amis Messieurs les espagnols et autant qu'il Sera en votre pouvoire de vous joindre avec le Commendant de lautre Rive perer la tranquilité de ce pays et la cause commune. [Translation — Attestée.] as it is requisite for The Public good and Conducive to the Support of the Common Cause of The United States of America. On every Occasion that shall offer to claim Your Protection in behalf of The People as well to support The Interest of the States You will act in Concert with The State Attorney, with The Militia Officers and The oldest Settlers in The Country and Consider jointly with Them on The most proper measures, which Circumstances may require in every par- ticular Case. For your Direction in The Performance of The Duties of The Office trusted to You I cannot direct you to a better Guide Than The Collection o/Laws and Articles of Jurisprudence which His Excellency The Gover- nor has sent hither, and which ought to be kept in The Office of The Clerk of The Court, Thèse You may consult sometimes combining them as much as possible with The old Customs & Usages of This Country, adding to this Your Knowledge of Jurisprudence You cannot fall into Error. I cannot recommend to You too much the Cultivating of a friendly Intercourse with Our Neighboring Friends The Spanish Nation and Communicating on every Opportunity with The Commander on The other Side of The River for Maintaining The Tranquility of This Coun- try and the Common Cause.
Page 322
322 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Nayant plus Rien a vous marquer qui soit a ma Connoissance Je m'en raporte a votre prudence et experiance pour les cas. En vous Souhaitant plus de réussite de tranquilite que je nay en jay l'honneur d'etre avec toute la Consideration posible. Monsieur Votre très humble et très obeisent Serviteur Signe Rich Winston Deputy Lieute de Conte Aux Caskaskias le 18' janvier 1783. enregestre au greffe du district des Caskaskias a la page 293, 294, 295 folio 189 Au Caskakias — fevre 1783 Signe P™ Langlois greffier [Translation — Attested.] As no other Particular at present occurs to my Reflection I rely on Your Judgement & Experience as to unforeseen Cases. I wish you a better success and less difficulties than I have met with I am with much esteem Sir Your humble & most obedient Servant (Signed) Richard Winston Deputy Lieutenant of the County. Kaskaskias the 8th Jany 1783 Recorded in The Clerk's Office of the district of Kaskaskias page 293, 294 & 295 folio 189 Kaskaskias The 24, Feb. 1783' Signed P* langlois Clerk. Certificate of Services of Timothé de Monbreun, October 17, 1780. [Draper MSS., 50J70.— A. D. S.] Fort Clark Octr 17th 1780 To all home it May Consarn This May Certefy that Ll Mumbron haith Beheved him Self as a Frend to the Cause of America in Evey Respect and that he haith Been Readey at all Times on Eaney immergencey to do Evey thing in his Pow- •The copy is attested on April 13, 1792, by Jean Bte. Barbau, judge and president of the district of Prairie du Rocher. The translation was made, November 13, 1793, by Peter S. Du Ponceau, notary public, etc., of Philadelphia.
Page 323
DE MONBREUN'S SERVICES 323 er for the defence of his Cuntrey & at all times When Ever Called on By his Superior or Commanding officer turned out. When the Savages Came in order to Destroy the Cuntrey Last Spring he turned out With the formost to Repulce them. When I was ordered to Go on the Expodition up the Wabash he allso Went with the Greatest Chearfullness and when The Savages attacted Fort Gefferson when I Could Git But twelve Men to Go with Me he a Gain Ventered his life to the Releefe of that post. I Think When all These proofes are Considered that he oute to be aplaused by Evey Good Man and Rewarded Acording to his Merrite. Geven under My hand Jno Montgomery Lt Col Commandant Fort Clark [October] 18th 1780 General orders as I am about to Start from This place to-day I there fore think it Expédiant to Levé Capt Rogers at this place With his Com- paney to take the Command and possession of fort Clark he is allso or- dered to asist the Agent With a Gard at all times if there is aney Call for one & to Compell Every person To Compley With their Contracts Maid With the Agent. Given under My hand Jno Montgomery L* Colol Commandant. John Williams to Timothé de Monbreun, February 15, 1781. [Draper MSS., 51J24.—A. L. S.] Monsieur, Je a receue l'honneur du votre, de aujourd'huy, je Suis bien Morti- fiere de N'être point Capable de vous donner Congé ne de vous payer. N'estoient point en pouvoire de la faire pour moy même Jusque Nouvelle ordre de Colo1 Clark pour l'assemble des officer il est nullement Néces- saire Votre Conduit a été tourjours cy bien et Satisfactoire a tous Nous [Translation.] Sir: I received your letter of to-day and find myself mortified in not being able to grant you leave of absence or to pay you, for I have no authority to do so until there comes a new order from Colonel Clark. As for the assembly of the officers, that is in no wise necessary. Your conduct has always been so good and satisfactory to all our officers,
Page 324
334 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS Officer, que vous navois aucune besoin de cella; ce que je peut faire je faira avec Plaisire et devant partire je prendra Quelque Arrangement pour vous et votre famille aussitôt que je aura Quelque Nouvelle de Colo1 Clark vous Sera informer Je Suis Monsr en vous priant de agreere mes Respect a Madame Votre très hum1 et très Obes* Serviture Jno Williams Au Cas 15 feby 1781 To Lieu* Monbrun de Boucher [Addressed:] To Lieut* Monbrun de Boucher Près1 [Translation.] that you have no need of that. I shall do ail I can with pleasure and before my departure I will make some arrangements for you and your family. As soon as I have news from Colonel Clark, I shall inform you. I am, sir, begging you to présent my respects to madame, Your very humble and very obedient servant, John Williams. At Kaskaskia, February 15, 1781. To Lieutenant Boucher de Monbreun. Timothé de Monbreun to George R. Clark, March 5, 1782. [Draper MSS., 51J25.—A. L. S.] Mon Général J'ai Eu L'honneur de M'addresser a Monsieur Le Major John Williams votre représentant pour lui demander soit ma retrait où qu'il m'accordât, En ma qualité De Gentilhomme Et d'officier au service De la Republique de la Virginie que J'ai L'honneur de servir, ma paye de Lieutenant, En bon argent où Marchandises pour pouvoir faire Sub- [Translation.] My General: I had the honour to address myself to Major John Williams, your représentative, asking him that either he grant my discharge or give me, in my quality of gentleman and officer in the service of the Republic of Virginia, which I have the honor to serve, my pay as a lieutenant, in good money or merchandise, so that I might be able to maintain my
Page 325
DE MONBREUN'S SERVICES 325 sister ma famille Lequel ne ma pu accorder que des Provisions pour ma Subsistance comme vous le verres par Sa Réponse cy Jointe Que J'ai L'honneur de vous Envoyer cy Inclus, En conséquence Mon général Je me flatte que Lorsque vous aurés vu le Certificat de Monsieur le Colonel Montgomery et La Réponse que Mrs Le Major Williams de Mes Services Et leurs Incompétence Malgré La bonne volonté Que ces Messieurs avoient de vouloir recompenser mes Services Et le Zèle que J'ai Encore présentement désirant vous Suivre dans L'Expédition que vous allés faire, Si toutes fois il vous plait m'accorder La Subsistance de Ma famille pourque Je puisse m'absenter Et ne pas Laisser ma famille a la Mercy de mes amis qui Est une chose honteuse a un véritable Gentilhomme tel que Je Suis. J'espère Mon Général que m'appuyant Sur le zèle avec lequel Je désire Servir La patrie trouver En vous toutes les ressources qui me Seront nécessaires pour Marcher avec Confiance Sous vos drapeaux a L'abri des quels un véritable Militaire ne Désire rien autre chose. Jai L'honneur d'être avec un profond respect Mon General Votre très humble et très obéissant Serviteur Thimo de monbreun Lté [Translation.] family. Major Williams was able to grant me nothing but provisions for my subsistence as you will see by the answer herewith enclosed, which I have the honor to send to you. Therefore, my gênerai, I trust that you will be able to help me, after you will have seen the cer- tificate of Colonel Montgomery and the answer of Major Williams concerning my services and their incapacity to recompense me for my services in spite of the good desires thèse gentlemen had to do so; and when you will have seen the zealous wish I still have to follow you on the expédition which you are going to make, if you are willing, how- ever, to grant me the maintenance for my family so that I can absent myself without leaving my family to the mercy of my friends, which is a thing of shame to a man of noble birth such as I am. I hope, my gênerai, that, in depending on the zeal with which I désire to serve my country, I shall find in you ail the resources which may be necessary for me, so that I can march with confidence under your banners, under whose shelter a true soldier wishes for nothing else. I have the honor to be with a profound respect, my gênerai, Your very humble and very obedient servant, Timothé de Monbreun, Lieutenant.
Page 326
326 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Kaskaskias le 5eme Mars 1782 [Addressed:] Monsieur Monsieur George Rogers Clark Ecuyer, Maréchal de camps Commandant la partie oriental de la Virginie au fort Pite. [Translation.] Kaskaskia, March 5, 1782. [Addressed:] M. George Rogers Clark, Esquire, Field Marshal, commanding the Eastern [sic] part of Virginia, at Fort Pitt. TiMOTHÉ de Monbreun to George R. Clark, no date. [Draper MSS., 51J26 —A. L. S.] Honneur de le General Mon GENERAL, Je me fait l'honneur de vous Ecrire Se motte. Je Soite qui La présente vous trouve En parfaite Sente. Mon general j'eût l'honneur de vous Ecrire par Monsieur Bauteles [ ?] Si vous savez reusu mallestre vous devez as [word illegible] reusu Les Sartificade Mon devoir par mes Supérieures qui y sont En joint as mallestre. Mon general jay Eut L'honneur de madressé a Monsieur Le major jan Williams pour lui de- mander Mes apointement et ma Rastion. comme il me Lavait accordé pour mes appointement il na peut me lascordé disant que las Devait paraittre as vous, pour que jen peut Etre payé a legard de La rastions qui mavait promie, il na peut me la faire donnée disant quil ny âvoit point de font je lui ay demandé Mon Congé puis quil ne pouvoit Rien Me donner Etant poursuit par des dettes que je devoits payeté [?] [Translation.] My General: I am honoring myself in writing you a few words. I trust that this letter will find you in perfect health. My general, I had the honor to write to you through M. Bauteles [ ?]. If you received my letter you must [also have] received the certificates of my service given by my su- periors, which were joined to my letter. My general, I had the honor to address myself to Major John Williams in order to ask him for my salary and rations, such as he had allowed me in the past. This time he was not able to grant me my pay, but said that the bill had to be referred to you. As for my being paid the rations which he had prom- ised, he is not able to do so, saying that there are none in reserve. I then asked for my discharge, since he was able to give me nothing and I was pursued by debts which I had to pay and was obliged to sell in
Page 327
DE MONBREUN'S SERVICES 327 obligé de vandre pour faire yonneure as mes dettes. Monsieur il ma Repond quil ne pouvoit point me donne de congé qui ny avoit que vous seul qui pouvoit faire cela quoy que cetoit que ma parolle Donnée que je cervirais en qualites de Lieutenant Sous Les ordre du colonel Clark. Et moy même Regardan mas parrole Comme un [word illegible] aux prais de vous mon general j'aviai, Ette Bien mortifié de moy même das voire ut Lidez de faire aux quen natgajemen. Mon general jay esperez jusque ce jour je me flatte, que vous aurez tout Egard pour moi, pour me faire livres d'apayes [word illegible] ma rastions. jusque moy de fevrier le 21 de Lane mille et sen catre vin d'un mon conte vous cera presenté par le major Williams. jespere mon general que m'ap- puyant Suer Le zelle avec La quelle je desire Service La patrie trouvara en vous toute Les Resource qui me seront Necessaire pour Marcher avec confiance sou vos drapau telle qu un veritable millitere qui ne Desire Rien autre chose jay l'honneur Dettre avec un profond Raispact Mon generall Votre tres Sommble Et tres obeisant Serviteur Thimote de Monbreun Letn [Translation.] order to meet said obligations. He answered me, sir, that he was not able to grant me a discharge, that you were the only one who could do that, even though it was only by promise that I was serving as lieu- tenant under the order of Colonel Clark. And I myself consider my word as an [oath] to you, my general. I was quite mortified at not being able to procure anything. My general, I have waited until this day. I trust that you will have all due consideration for me in this matter, in order to have delivered my pay and rations up to February 21,1781. My bill will be presented to you by Major Williams. I hope, my general, that in depending on the zeal with which I desire to serve the country, I shall find in you all the resources that may be necessary for me so that I may march with confidence under your banners as a true soldier who desires nothing more. I have the honor to be with a pro- found respect, my general, Your very humble and very obedient servant, Tlmothé de Monbreun, Lieutenant.1 1 In the report of the Western commissioners sent out by Virginia in 1782. at p. 45, is found the following entry: "Also Lieut. Monbrun Pay role from the i2th of May 1780, till the 12th of May 1782, at 2of Dollars p. Month Amount 640 Dollars. The Board find that Lieut. Monbrun was with- out a command the greater part of the time specified in this Pay Role, but approve the Claim from the Recommandations accompanying it, which are confirmed by the Report of Genl Clark."
Page 328
328 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS Richard Winston Announces Appointment of De Monbreun, January 21,1783. [K. MSS., Court Record, f. 5.] AVERTISEMENT En Consequance de laffiche qui nous a été Envoyée par Messieurs Les Commissionaires qu'il a plû a Son Excelance Le Gouverneur d'Envoyer dans notre voisinage a la chute de Loyo, pour nous donner L'avantage Et aisance de régler nos comptes Et tirer les sommes que l'état sera dans le Cas de nous devoir. C'est pourquoy le soussigné ayant des comptes a rendre audit Etat Et voulant profiter d'une occasion si favorable; part incessament Ce qui l'oblige d'avertir le public par ces présentes que tous ceux qui ont des Comptes a Sa charge De telle nature qu'ils puissent être de venire régler avec lui sous huit jours datte des présentes faute De quoy il déclare quil fera Son voyage Et proteste Contre toutes poursuites que Ion pourvoit Exercer Contre lui et Contre tout ce qui lui a partint pendant son absence. Et comme La charge quil a L'honneur d'occuper En qualité de Commandant de cette Comté ne peut pas rester vacante il déclare au [Translation.] Notice In conséquence of the placard which has been sent to us by the commissioners, whom it has pleased his Excellency the Governor to send into our neighborhood, at the falls of the Ohio, to give us an easy opportunity to settle our accounts and withdraw the sums of money that the state owes us, it is for this reason that the undersigned, because he has accounts to render to the said state and wishes to profit by an occasion so favorable, is setting out immediately. This obliges him to inform the public by thèse présents that ail those who have accounts against him of whatever character can bring them to a settlement with him within a week dating from thèse présents. In default of such settlement, he déclares that he will make his journey and protest against ail suits that are brought, during his absence, against him and ail that belongs to him. And since the office of commandant of this county, which he has the honor to occupy, cannot remain vacant, he déclares to the public that
Page 329
MEMORIAL OF INHABITANTS, MARCH i, 1783 329 public quil nomme par ces présentes La personne de Mr thimotée de Monbrun Ecuyer, officier dans Le Service de L'état pour nous rem- placer jusqu'à ce quil En soit ordonné par Le Gouvernement lui con- noissant tous, les talans et Capacité requis pour Ladite charge En- joignons a tous les fidels Sujets de l'état De le reconnoitre pour leur Commandant Et de lui obeier En tout Ce quil leur Commandera pour le Service de l'état Et La tranquilité publique aux Caskakias le 21 Janvier 1783 signé Rich. Winston Enregistré au greffe La vingt unième janvier mil Sept cent quatre vingt trois. En la page 254, 253. folio 5 Pre Langlois Greffier [Translation.] he names by thèse présents the person of M. Timothé de Monbreun, Esquire, officer in the service of the state, knowing him to possess ail the talent and the capacity required for this office, to take his place until such time as orders shall be sent by the government. We enjoin ail the faithful subjects of the state to recognize him as their commandant and to obey him in ail that he shall command them to do for the service of the state and the public tranquillity. At Kaskaskia, January 21,1783. (Signed) Richard Winston. Recorded at the clerk's office January 21, 1783, on pages 254, 255, folio 5. Pierre Langlois, Clerk. Mémorial of the Inhabitants of Illinois to the Commissioners of the State of Virginia, March 1, 1783. [M. C, T. MSS.— A. D.] Aux honorables Commissionaires Des Etats de la Virginie, actuelle- ment A la chute. Messieurs, Les habitans des illinois, Se Seroit nattés que La Réception gén- éreuse par Eux faitte a Monsieur Le General Clark, et, a son detache- [Translation.] To the Honorable Commissioners of the State of Virginia, now at the Falls. Gentlemen: The inhabitants of Illinois had based their hopes upon the generous réception, which they gave to General Clark and his detachment upon
Page 330
33<> ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS ment Lors De son orrivée [sic] dans Ce païs; Le Sacrifice qu'ils ont fait, de Leurs Revenus tant, des terres que tout autres Provision de Bouche de Guerre, et marchandises Avec un zèle, qui Lui a Evidement Prouvé ainsy qu'a tous Les officiers qui Laccompagnoit, Combien Les dits habitans etoit Satisfait de L'a Digne alliance qu'unit Les Etats de Lamerique; Avec Leur ancien souverain, et le désire ardent qu'ils avoit de s'accosiér, aux Principes d'une Liberté, dont jusqu'à présent ils n'en Connoyssent pas La douceur, malgré que parmi eux il Sen trouve avoir Essayé a faire pénétrer jusqu'au tribunal souverain, par Le Ministère de quelque Particulier, Létat déplorable, ou Les habitans se trouvent par l'horrible administration, des Chefs et des troupes pen- dant Leur séjour aux illinois; et affin que vous Soyez véritablement Convaincu, ils vous prient Messieurs de Recevoir de bonne part Le tableau des Griefs, qu'ils ont L'honneur de vous adresser; en Réponse de L'avis qu'il vous a plû Leur donner, addressé à la Cour de notre district; Voicy Les faits, Le General Clark arriva aux illinois En Mil sept Cents Soixente et dix huits, avec Son détachement nous Le Reçûmes a Bras ouvert, [Translation.] their arrivai in this country, and the sacrifices, which they have made of their revenues, both of their lands and of other provisions of war and merchandise, with a zeal which evidently proved to General Clark and to the officers who accompanied him how satisfied were the inhabitants with the worthy alliance which unités the states of America with their former sovereign, and the ardent désire which they had to attune them- selves to the principles of liberty, of which, up to the présent time, they do not know the mildness, in spite of the fact that there are some amongst them who have tried through the agency of individuals to bring before the sovereign tribunal the déplorable condition in which the inhabitants are on account of the horrible administration of the leaders and the troops during their stay in Illinois. And in the hope that you may really be convinced [the aforesaid inhabitants] pray you, gentlemen, to accept in good part the account of their grievances, which they have the honor to address to you in response to the notice which it has pleased you to give them, and which was addressed to the Court of our district. Hère arc the facts: General Clark arrived in Illinois in 1778 with his detachment. We
Page 331
MEMORIAL OF INHABITANTS, MARCH i, 1783 331 flattés d'une ample Protection que nous desirions depuis longtems, Ce Détachement manquoit de tout, et nous avançons avec vérité qu'il etoit tout nud, mais Les manières honnêtes de Monsieur Le General Clark et de ses officiers, sur Ce qu'il nous assura avoir des ordres de tirere sur Monsieur Polloq agent Des Etats de La Virginie a la N1Ie orleans il na pas eu de peine de Se procurer tout Ce qu'il a eu Besoin, pour un Numéraire, En Cartes Courantes qu'il a Répandûe En quantité tant Sur notre Rive que Sur Celle D Espagne, Sur le pied de la Piastre Sonnant d Espagne, dont tous nos Effets Lui ont été fourni au même Prix et Conditions, nous nous flattons que Lui seul suffira pour nous Justifier de ce que nous vous avançons. Il paroit Messieurs que vous désirés d'avoir Des Etats ou Comptes de fourniture de Notre Part, chose impossible, a chaque Remise ou Vente Les Commandants ou Commissaires nous payaient avec Cette monaye ou des Reconnoissances et Lors que nous Les Représentions ils Les Substitoit en Lettres d'Echage Sur Monsieur Polocq ou Sur La Virginie, et Les états Et Comptes Restoit au Pouvoir du Comman- [Translation.] received him with open arms, confident of an ample protection which we had desired for a long time. The detachment was in need of every- thing and we assert that they were almost naked; but on account of the honorable bearing of General Clark and his officers, and because he assured us that he had orders to draw on M. Pollock, an agent of the State of Virginia at New Orleans, he had no difficulty in procuring ail he needed in exchange for a currency in the form of paper money1 which he circulated in great quantities both on our shore and the Spanish at the rate of the hard piastre of Spain; and ail our goods were furnished them at that same price and on that condition. We trust that his testimony will be sufficient to justify the claims that we are making you. It seems, gentlemen, that you désire to have statements or accounts of the supplies furnished by us, a thing which is impossbile; for at every delivery or sale the commanders or commissaries used to pay us with that money or with receipts and when we presented the latter they would exchange them for letters of exchange on M. Pollock or the State of Virginia and the statements and accounts would remain in the hands of *" Commentais."
Page 332
332 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS dant; des peuples aussy Eloignes du tribunal Souverain et prévenus de La Douceur d'un Gouvernement juste asperoit depuis Longtems Pouvoit-il S'immaginner qu'il Seroit possible qu'il peut emmaner de sa part une monoye immaginaire, pouvoit il Simmaginer non plus, qu'un officier Commandé Par Ses ordres D'eut Leur Laisser ignorer, que Cette monnoye souffroit un discrédit, nous L'avons néammoins Reçue pour une Valeur intrinsèque, mais aussy cette Confiance aveugle nous a Réduit dans La dernière des Misère obligés de diminuer de La moitié nos semmences faute d'avoir Les moyens de vous procurer une livre de fer pour Racommoder nos cherrues n'ayant pour toute Resource qu'n Numéraire du Provenu tant de nos terres que de Marchandises converti La Plus Grande Partie en Lettres de changes que Les uns ont fait passée par La voye de La NUe Orléans, et Les autres par terre Et enfin Les autres, toujours flattées de Lequité Du Gouvernement, Les gardent en Leur Pouvoir Persuadé qu'étant bien informé de la Vérité de ces faits il Sera trop juste pour Repondre et Garantir La Conduite des chefs qui nous ont Commandés; Sans Exiger que nous et nos [Translation.] the commanders. Could a people who were so far distant from the sovereign tribunal and had been told of the kindness of a just govem- ment, so long desired, imagine that it would issue an imaginary money? Could they imagine, moreover, that an officer, acting according to its orders, would allow them to remain ignorant that this currency was dis- credited? We hâve received it, nevertheless, at its face value; but, also, this blind confidence has reduced us to the greatest poverty and has obliged us to diminish our crops by half, since we did not have the means to procure a single pound of iron with which to repair our plows, for our only resource was a paper moneyl given in return for the products of our land and for our merchandise, which had been converted for the most part into letters of exchange. Some of us sent thèse by way of New Orléans and others by land, while others, still confiding in the justice of the government, are keeping them in their possession, feeling sure that once the government is well informed of the truth of ail thèse facts, it will be too just to take the responsibility of shielding the conduct of the leaders who have commanded us, and to require that we and our neigh- bors on the Spanish shore should be the only victims of our excessive confidence. 1 Or: "an enumeration of the products" etc.
Page 333
MEMORIAL OF INHABITANTS, MARCH i, 1783 333 Compatriotes sis Sur La rive d'espagne Soyons Les Seuls Victimes de notre Grande Confiance. Monsieur Le General Clark nous quitta quelque tems après La Conquette du Poste vinçennes entre Les mains de Monsieur hamilton, ou nôtre jeunesse L'accompagna avec Le même zele, qui nous a porté toujours, a fournir aux troupes Leurs Subsistance il fut substituer Par Le Colonel Montgomery, d'ont L'administration tiranique qu'il a Pratiqué parmy nous, mérite Messieurs L'attention La plus Particu- lière de votre Part; mais avant d'entrer dans un détail aussy Effrayant, nous Croyons devoir vous Informer, Messieurs que Monsieur Le Colonel Tode Venu icy quelque tems avent Le départ de du [sic] Gen- eral Clark pour y établir une Cour de judicature et quelques règle dans Les finances n'a cru devoir nous informer du discrédit du numéraire Rependû En quantité par my [sic] nous qu'a près L'acquisition Sur La Rive despagne d'une quantité de pelleteries qu'il Paya en Lettres déchange Sur La Virginie; Epoque fatale de notre ruine puis qu'il annonça peut de tems Après qu'il y avoit quantité de faux argent, qu'il Recconnut, et Cota, a chaque particuliers, qui jusqu'à Lors guidés de La meilheure foy du mond avoit Reçue sur Le pied de La valeur [Translation.] General Clark left us some time after the capture of Post Vinçennes from the hands of M. Hamilton, whither our young people accompanied him with the same zeal that has always induced us to furnish to the troops their subsistence. His place was taken by Colonel Montgomery, whose tyrannical administration as he practiced it amongst us deserves, gentle- men, the most careful attention on your part. But before entering into such a frightful détail, we think it is our duty to inform you, gentlemen, that Colonel Todd, who came here, some time before the departure of General Clark, in order to establish a court of judicature and a little order in the finances, did not believe it his duty to inform us of the dépré- ciation of the paper money which had been circulated amongst us in such great quantities, until after the purchase, on the Spanish shore, of a quan- tity of peltries for which he paid in letters of exchange on Virginia. It was the fatal epoch of our ruin, for he announced, a short time thereafter, that there was a quantity of counterfeit money which he identified and valued for each individual who, guided by the best intentions in the world, had received it up to that time at the same rate as the ordinary
Page 334
334 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS ordinaire De La piastres sonnante, en fournissant Les objets, vivres &c pour tel argent et au même prix que Le Gouvernement despagne Les payoit; Pour Comble de malheur Monsieur Polocq, à fait introduire dans Ces Circonstances quantité de Boissons fortes, et quelque Mar- chandises par différentes Créatures, avec ordres de vendre aux amér- icains, en Lettre de change Sur luy, ou Sur La Virginie soient aux troupes ou a Ceux qui voudroit Le payer en Cette monnoye Le discrédit Connu, joint a La nesesité urgente de quelque pauvre habitant il n'a pas eu de peines d'accumulere des Sommes au deLa de L'imagination, Par Le prix Exorbitant qu'il a fait placer Ses effets aux troupes et au pauvres Cytoyens dont L'inpossibilité de pouvoir faire Subsister Leur familles Les à obligés à faire des Sacrifices dun argent qui Leur Coutoit Si cher et gagné aussi Legitemement; Monsieur tode avent Sont départ établit Par la voye du peuple et par une assemblée Légale une Cour de judicature; et Commitionna de son propre mouvement Monsieur Richard Winston De la charge de [Translation.] value of the hard piastre, when furnishing différent things, supplies, etc., for the said money, and at the same price that the government of Spain was paying them. To cap the climax of their misfortune, under thèse conditions, M. Pollock sent by certain of his tools a quantity of strong drink and some merchandise with orders to sell, for letters of exchange on himself or Virginia, to the Americans, either the troops or those who were willing to pay in this money, after its discrédit was known.1 On account of the urgent necessity of some poor inhabitants, he had no great difficulty in gathering sums past ail power of imagination, by charging the exorbitant prices, which he placed on the goods sold to the troops and the poor citizens, who were obliged, on account of the impossi- bility of supporting their families otherwise, to sacrifice a money which cost them so much and had been so legitimately earned. M. Todd, before his departure, established by the votes of the peo- ple in a légal assembly a court of law.' He also gave, on his own initia- tive, a commission of lieutenant-governor of this district to M. Richard 1 Possibly this refera to some goods brought from New Orléans by Lindsay, the disposai of which was put in the hands of John Dodge. Consult M'Carty's letter to Todd, October 14, 1780, and Win- ston's to Todd, October 34, Chi. Hist. Society's Collections, iv., 337,330. 3 See ante, p. Ho </ seq.
Page 335
MEMORIAL OF INHABITANTS, MARCH i, 1783 335 Lieutenant Gouverneur de Ce district, Mais Comme Ces Règlements Regardent particulièrement Ladit Cour, Nous Reviendron a L'admin- istration Du Colonel Mongomery. Cet officier prit Le commandement de Ce Païs et de La Garnison que y Resta, La Bonne Réputation qu'il avoit acquise par Sa douceur et Par Sa Conduite irréprochable ne nous Laissa aucun doute, que Sous Son Commandement, nous ne serions pas moins heureux que Sous Ce Lui du Colonel Clark, Mais qu'elles seroit Les Expressions dont nous devrions nous Servir, pour vous établir un tableau de sa conduite envers nous, Les afïricains usant de Leur pouvoir despotique Rougeroit des Excès qu'il a pratiqué parmis nous. Nous Nous plaignîmes de La grande Consomation de vivres qu'il faisoit pour Si peut De troupes, après nous être apperçû que quantité de personnes, et Exclaves non attachées au services vivoit à nos dépens; et Se procuroit par cette voye Leur Bois de Chouffage; et autres pro- vision; Pendant que nos familles Gemissoit, et Se Sacrifioit avec nous a fin que Les officiers, et La troupe pussent trouver Leur subsistance du provenu de nos travaux il parroissoit sensible a nos justes Raisons, [Translation.] Winston. But as thèse arrangements concern in particular the said court, we shall return to the administration of Colonel Montgomery. This officer took the command of this country and of the garrison that remained here. The good réputation, which he had acquired by his kindness and irreproachable conduct, gave us the assurance that under his command we should not be less happy than under the com- mand of General Clark. But what expressions can we use in order to give you a picture of his conduct towards us? Africans, making use of their despotic power, would blush at the excesses that he practiced amongst us. After we had perceived that many persons and slaves not at ail con- nected with the service were living at our expense and were procuring for themselves in this way their firewood and other provisions, while our own families were moaning and making sacrifices so that the officers and the troops could find their subsistence out of the proceeds of our labor, we complained to him of the great consumption of supplies that he was making for so few troops.1 He seemed sensible of our just reasoning 1 Sec ante, p. 140.
Page 336
336 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS et nous assuroit que ses ordres étant de tirer Sur La Virginie que nous serions Exactement payes, Comme nous devions L'être pour Les Lettres de change tirées Sur Monsieur Polocq par le General Clark Cet agent, nous à payé avec de très Bonnes Raisons mais jusqu'à Présent nous sommes a Recevoir un Sol; Le discrdit [sic] Connû, ni Ce défaut de payement ne nous Empêcha pas néanmoins, de fournir Exactement La subsistance au troupes, et en Genre, aux prix ordinaire, et Courant dans Ce païs Sur Le pied de La Piastres Sonnante, mais Soit qu'il ait Crû que nos Représentations précédentes attaquoit son authorité; ou qu'il ait imprudemment écouté Les Conseils que Luy a donné Ce même Lieutenent Gouverneur Richard Winston; que nous étions accoutumes detre menés a Coup De Bayon- nete; et qu'il pouvoit prendre Che nous tout Ce qu'il voudrait d'autbor- ité il a osé sans Craindre de dégradée son état et Lhonneur de La nation; De faire tuer nos Bestieaux dans nos plaines, nos Boeufs de Charrûe, vaches a Lait, et porçeaux dans nos propres Clos, sans que nos plaintes nous ait procuré d'autre satisfaction de La part De Ces Soldats furieux que des menaces Les plus Barbares de Leurs Carabines; nous avons [Translation.] and assured us that, since he had orders to draw on the State of Virginia, we should be exactly paid as we ought to be for the letters of exchange drawn on M. Pollock by General Clark. This agent paid us with very good reasons, but up to the présent day we have not received a single cent. Although the discrédit of the money and the default in payments were known, still this did not prevent us from furnishing subsistence to the troops, in kind and at the current prices in this country at the rate of the hard piastre; but whether he thought that our former remonstrances were an attack upon his authority or he had imprudently listened to the counsels that were given to him by that same Lieutenant-Governor Richard Winston, who told him, that we were accustomed to be driven at the point of the bayonet, and that he could take by authority from our homes anything he might wish, he dared without fearing to dégrade his position and the honor of the nation, to cause to be killed in our commons our animais, our oxen, and our milch cows, and in our very yards our swine; and our complaints have procured for us no other satisfaction on the part of thèse ferocious soldiers than the most barbarous threats with
Page 337
MEMORIAL OF INHABITANTS, MARCH i, 1783 337 Essuyé toutes Ces horreur avec une patiançe dont il ny a eu jamais d'exemple; Toujours Constants dans la fidélité que nous avons promise aux Etats unis, et persuadés qu'un tems plus heureux et La Connoissançe que prendroit Le tribunal souverin, de notre Malheureuse situation, nous vengeroit avec faveur et Equité, de tous Ces Excès de tiranie; La devastation que nous avons Essuyé, ayant mis Lepouvante Parmis plusieurs Cytoyens hors detat dailleurs de Cultivé Les terres par la perte de Leurs Boeufs de tire, et de Leurs vaches, par La cruauté des ordres de Ce Commandant, nombre d'eux ont pris Le parti dabban- donner Ce distrit Pour ly chercher dans dautres païs un asile ou ils trouvent La protection qui est due aux peuples Civilizés, Nous avons Garde de Croire Messieurs que cette Conduite Si contraire à L'humanité à L'a droiture, et au principes d'un Sage Gouvernement, puisse Emma- ner du tribunal Supreme; Nous ne Lavons point mérité, au moins que ce ne Soit pour avoir accuilly Le troupes de La Virginie en vray Compa- triotes Les avoir nouris et entretenus, ameme nos productions, de trois a quatre années, pour un Numeraire, que nous avons Reçû avec La Confiance due à un Gouvernement Equitable; [Translation.] their guns. We have borne all these horrors with a patience unpar- alleled, for we were ever faithful to the fidelity which we promised to the United States, and were confident of the coming of a more happy time when the sovereign tribunal would have knowledge of our wretched situ- ation and would avenge us with favor and justice, for all these excesses of tyranny. Because the devastation we have suffered has brought terror into the hearts of many citizens who were already unable to cultivate the fields on account of the loss of their oxen and their cows by the cruel orders of the commander, a number of these citizens determined to leave this dis- trict to seek in some other country an abode where they would find the protection which is due to civilized people. We have not been willing to believe, gentlemen, that this conduct, so contrary to humanity and to justice and to the principles of a wise government, could spring from the supreme tribunal. We have not merited it, unless it be for having received the troops of Virginia as fellow-citizens, for having nourished and maintained them with the products of three or four years, sold for a currency which we have received with the confidence due to a just government.
Page 338
338 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Sil y à de La dessipation dans Ladministration de Ces officiers Commandant, Ce que nous ignorons, En Sommes nous La Cause, et pouvons nous repondre de La Confiance que Le Gouvernement à établi Sur eux; Cest à Lui a reprimer Les abus, et nous dedomager des torts qu'ils nous ont fait Contre L'institution de Ce même Gouverne- ment; Apres avoir éprouvé notre patiance, et Certainement Connu en nous les sentimens de zels Citoyens et enfin Pris Vis [MS. /or»]ssance de notre Ruine total Monsieur Le Colonel Mongomery nous abandonna a notre Malheureux Sort, il fut Substituer par Le Captaine Rogers, nos Pleurs Commencèrent a Cesser a Ce Changement, Persuadé que le dernier étant alliée de Monsieur Le General Clark nous traiterait avec Les Egards, et Les Devoirs qui Sont dû a des fidels Sujets; mais Ce Jeune officier Sans doute infatué du Commandement qui lui avoit été Confié, et Profitant des Plàyes incurable, d'ont nous étions accablés, Crût dacquerer Des L'auriers, en mettant Les Comble à nos Malheurs; Notre pays Ressembloit a une Ville Prise dassaut, et Livré au Pillage, Le Soldat armé, Soit dans la Plaine ou dans nos habitations tuaient nos [Translation.] If there has been any waste in the administration of thèse command- ing officers, a thing of which we are ignorant, are we the cause of it? And are we to be held accountable for the confidence that the government has placed in them? It is the government's duty to suppress thèse abuses and to compensate us for ail the wrongs contrary to the law of this same government that thèse commanders have made us suffer. After he had proved our patience and certainly recognized in us the feeling of zealous citizens and in short had had visible [démonstration] of our total ruin, Colonel Montgomery abandoned us to our wretched fate. His place was taken by Captain Rogers. Our sorrows commenced to cease at this change, for we were persuaded that, since the latter was a relative of General Clark, he would treat us with some regard and a sensé of the duty that is due to faithful subjects. But this young officer, no doubt infatuated by the command that had been confided to him, and taking advantage of the incurable wounds with which we were suffering, thought to acquire some laurels by increas- ing our misfortunes to the extrême. Our country seemed like a city taken by assault and delivered over to pillage. Armed soldiers, either in
Page 339
MEMORIAL OF INHABITANTS, MARCH i, 1783 339 animaux; Il a eû encore La témérité d'envoyé par plusieurs fois de Platons d'hommes armés, avec Des chartes a La Porte de nos habita- tions pour nous Enlever de force Le Bois de chaufage qui etoit destiné Pour notre propre usage. C'est avec douleur Messieurs que nous nous voyons nécessités a vous faire un Détail du tableau frappante que nous prenons La Liberté de vous adresser nous ne doutons point, que vous aurez de la peine, a vous persuader, qu'il Soit possible qu'il ne soit amplifier, mais nous vous prions de Croire que c'est daprès La vérité Notre génie peu élevé nous Empêche même de luy donner Les Couleurs Les Couleurs [sic] Les Plus Sensibles, et qui sûrement vos Coeurs en seroient plus attendris; Ce même défaut de Génie ou La Sécurité dans Laquelle nous àvons vècu depuis que nous Sommes Sujet des Etats unis ne nous a pas permis a aucun de nous de tenir un journal de tout Les Griefs dont nous avons à nous plaindre, néantmoins quelques Pieces Justificatives et relative à Nos Justes Plaintes que [MS. Ulegible] etre [?] vous [MS. Ulegible] du veritable fond avec une Lettre de Capitaine George Ce digne officier informé de nos Malheurs en vous demandant des Secours nous a tem- [Translation.] our commons or in our homes, were killing our animals. He even had the audacity to send, on several occasions, detachments, of armed men with written orders to our very doors to take away by main force our firewood which was destined for our own use. It is with sorrow, gentlemen, that we see ourselves obliged to detail to you a striking sketch such as we are taking the liberty to send to you. We do not doubt but that it will be difficult for you to believe that it can be possible and that we have not exaggerated it; but we beg you to believe that it is drawn according to the truth. Our talent, little trained, prevents us from even giving to it the most visible colors, which would surely have more touched your hearts. This same lack of talent, or the feeling of security in which we have lived since we have been subjects of the United States, has not permitted any one of us to keep an account of all the wrongs of which we have to complain. Nevertheless a few pieces justifying and relating to our just complaints [MS. illegible] of the true outlay, together with a letter from Captain George. When this worthy officer was informed of our misfortunes, at a time he was asking for our help, he expressed to us his feeling; others beside him can render to us
Page 340
34© ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS oigné Sa Sensibilité, d'autre que Lui peuvent nous Rendre La Justice que nous Meritons, et vous, Messieurs, Commissionné par nos illustres souverains pour penetrer Jusqu'a La source de Nos Meaux; Nous vous Supplions d'interceder pour Nous Leurs Protection Pour Le Redressement des Griefs d'ont nous nous Plaignons, Leur faire entendre au Pied du tribunal nos Gemissementes; et la situations deplorables, ou Les troupes de Virginie nous ont Reduit. Nous avons L'honneur detre avec Le plus profond Respect Vos tres humbles, obeissants Et fideles serviteurs Aux Kaskaskias Illinois Le ime Mars 1783 [Translation.] the justice which we deserve; and we pray you, gentlemen, commissioned by our illustrious sovereigns to penetrate to the very sources of our wrongs, to intercede for their protection of us, for the reparation of the wrongs of which we are complaining, to cause them to hear our moans eveii at the foot of the tribunal and know the deplorable situation into which the troops from Virginia have reduced us. We have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Your very humble, obedient and faithful servants Kaskaskia, Illinois, March 1, 1783. Memorial of the Principal Inhabitants of Illinois to the Coxi- missioners of Virginia, about March, 1783. [M. C, T. MSS.— Copy, not attested.] Representations des principaux habitans des yllinois, aux honnorables Commissionnaires pour Les Etats de Virginie &c. Les Supliants ont L'honneur de vous Representer tres humblement que depuis Le Commencement de La juste et necessaire Guere entre La Grand Bretagne, et Les Etats ûnies, Nous avons un detachement [sic] Bien [Translation.] Memorial of the Principal Inhabitants of Illinois to the Honorable Commissioners of Virginia. The suppliants have the honor very humbly to show you that, since the beginning of the just and necessary war between Great Britain and the United States, we have had a very warm attachment for the liberty •
Page 341
MEMORIAL OF jNHABITANTS, MARCH, 1783 341 Chaud pour la Liberté de La Merique Comme nous avons été Gouverné Par la Constitutions des anglais, ce qui nous à Empêcher de deClarer nos véritables sentiments Jusquau moment que vous avez Envoyé vos troupes. Pour nous Soulager de notre Esclavage; Comme vos troups Etaient dénué de tout nécessaire que Ce Soit Ce qui nous a donné occasion Pour Convincre, notre Bonne intention pour Le Soulagement des d* troups En Leur fournisant tout les Besoins que leur Nescesité demandoit, metant La plus Grande Confiance dans Largent de papier Lette dechange qui nous ont donné, Mesr Les Commandant de Cette partie nous ayant assuré plusieurs fois que Ce même argent qu'il ont introduit valaient piastres Gourdes ou or, nous L'avons Reçue de même nous avons Envoyé Ces même Lettres déchange au personnes Sur Les quelles elles Etaient tiré qui ont Refusé a payé Et accepté La plus Grande partie Cependant nous avons toujours mis notre plus grande Confiance au Gouvernement, nous avons fournie touts Les Secours au troupes par la force de nos traveaux que nous avons Gagnée pour La subsistance de nos pauvres fammilles malgré Cecy plusieurs de vos Soldats ont été Sur notre domaine tuer nos animaux de travaux vaches Cochons &c auquel il nous est impos- sible de vous procurer un Compte juste de La perte qu'il nous ont fait [Translations.] of America. Since we were governed by English law, this prevented us from declaring our véritable sentiments until the time when you sent your troops to free us from our bondage. Since your troops were des- titute of ail necessities, there was given us an opportunity to show how well disposed we were for their welfare by furnishing to the said troops ail that they needed. We placed the greatest confidence in the paper money and letters of exchange which they gave to us, since the comman- dant of this région assured us several times that this same money which they introduced was worth as much as the piastre gourde or gold. We accepted it. Likewise we sent thèse same letters of exchange to the persons on whom they had been drawn, who refused to pay and to accept the greater part. Nevertheless, we have always had the greatest con- fidence in the government. We hâve fumished ail succor to the troops by giving the fruit of our labors which we won for the subsistence of our poor families. In spite of ail this several of your soldiers have entered upon our property, and killed our domestic animais, beasts of burden, cows, pigs, etc., concerning which it is impossible for us to
Page 342
34» ILLINOIS HISTORICAL OLLElCOLLECTIO.VS Essuyer d'ont nous en Resentons EnCor no,e aujourdhui tous Les effets; La preuve Convainquante de Ces même faits et Lauteur ne vient seule- ment que de L'instigation des f ause repret r? «ntation du député Lieutenant de Compté notre Commandant, qui a persuàdt*1^.1' ^ans Lesprit de Mr mongommery Commandant Militaire que nous étions un "peuple Etran- ger a La Liberté, que nous étions une Bande de brutes En un mot nous a Conparé a des Bettes de Charge et que nous devions être mené a Coups de Bare de fere et Coup de Bayonnette; Ne connoissant point d'autre Loix; dont nous vous Envoyons Les Serments des officiers a quil Le Lieutenant de Compté La assuré dans Le même tems et après avoir vomy toutte Ces imprécations Contre nous; Et Jouant Son Rôle de tartufe, il a eu Encore Le fron assé audacieux de nous persuader que Le militaire qui etoit venu prendre possesion de nos pays netaient qu'ne Bande de brigans pilleurs et volleur qui venaient Exprès pour cela, Ce sont Les Propres termes qui cest servy pour nous animer Contre Le Militaire, dont il est Le principale auteur de tant desastres qui se sont Comis; Cete même persone Continue a nous Commander qui a anûlé Casé et [Translation.] render you an exact statement of the loss they have caused us, the evil effect of which we feel even to this day. The conclusive proofs of thèse same deeds and their origin [?] spring only from the instigation and the false représentation of the lieutenant of the county, our commandant, who has caused M. Montgomery, military commandant, to believe that we were a people unacquainted with liberty and a band of brutes; in a word he compared us to beasts of burden, stating that we ought to be governed by blows with an iron bar and at the point of the bayonet, since we knew no other law. For ail thèse statements we are sending you the oath of the officers to whom the said lieutenant of the county told them.1 At the same time and after he had vomited ail thèse impréca- tions against us, he played his rôle of Tartufe and had the impudence to try to make us believe that the military which had come to take posses- sion of our country was nothing more than a band of ruffians and thieves who came for that express purpose.2 Thèse are the very terms that he employed to instigate us against the soldiers and, therefore, he is the principal author of the many disasters which have befallen us. This same person continues to command us, he who annuled, broke, and 1 Thèse papers have not been found, but may be in the Virginia State Lîbrary. 1 Evidently quotations from the évidence taken by Labuxiere in the trial of Winston. Anir, p. 377.
This page contains an image.
Page 343
MEMORIAL OF INHABITANTS, MARCH, 1783 343 Revocqué, La bonne Loix que vous nous avé donné pour la Sûreté du Pays; pour Lempecher de venir En Justice; il na Pas Eu de peine de gagner Le Sieur Carbonneaux Greffier du pays; nous vous assurons que Les traitements que nous avons Reçû nous ont plongé Jusqu'a present dans La misire Calamité malheurs nécessité Et extrémité; nous vous pri- ons de prendre toute Considerations attantions et Reflexion pour nous de toute Les Choses Sus ditte Cy devant; Nous vous observons aussy, Cy vos officier que vous avez Envoyé icy pour nous Gouverner avoient abusé de La Confiance que vous avé mis en eux Cela ne doit point être nous qui doivent soufrire de leur Conduite. Nous avons toujours La plus haute oppinion que Le noble principale qui Gouverne nos états dont nous Espérons que le Gouvernement ne poura nous obliger a Changer Cette oppinion, a aller prendre La pro- tections de Lespagne Comme Baucoupe Dhabitans ont deja faite par Raport aux Mauvais traitement que nous avons Reçû. Nous avons Lhonneur de vous observer quêtant Environne de Len- nemy qui nous menace tous les Jours Cequi nous empêche d'abandonné [Translation.] revoked the good law, which you gave us for the safety of the country, in order to keep himself from being brought to justice.1 He has had no trouble in winning over M. Carbonneaux, clerk of the country. We assure you that the treatment which we have received has plunged us, up to the present, into poverty, calamity, misfortune, necessity, and destitution. We pray you to take all consideration, and give attention and reflection to all the things we have mentioned above. We observe further that, if your officers whom you sent here to govern us have abused the confidence which you placed in them, we should not be the ones to suffer on account of their conduct. We have always had the highest opinion of the noble principle which governs our state, and we hope that the government will not cause us to change in this opinion by forcing us to seek the protection of Spain, as so many inhabitants have already done because of the bad treatment which we have received. We have the honor to observe to you that, because we are sur- rounded by the enemy which threatens us every day, which prevents us from leaving our families to come to you, we are intrusting Mr. 1 This statement a the main proof that the abolition of the civil court was the act of Richard Win- ston. See also post, p. 311, n. z.
Page 344
344 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS nos famille pour nous Rendre aupres de vous; nous chargons Mr Wil- liame en qui nous avons notre Confiance de vous Remettre nos Juste Representation du quel nous esperons que vous Rendrai notre Sort plus heureux Nous avons Lhonneur detre avec Le plus profond Respec Messieur Vos tres humble et tres obeisants et fidele Serviteurs antoine peltier Joseph Mignaux Gerard Langlois + ANTOINE ChENTER + ETIENE PAGÉ DUPLACY FILS faisant pour Sa mere +antoine Gagné + pierre dumont Page + CHARLE DELILE Janis J Bt Bauvais Lachance Picard Vitale Bauvais Louis Brazeau jean Choiser +Bte delile Nicola Lachance Bt janis René Soumande +Louis DeLhe [Translation.] Williams, in whom we place our confidence,1 to deliver to you our just representation, on account of which we hope you will render our lot more fortunate. We have the honor to be, with the most profound respect, gentlemen, Your very humble and very obedient and faithful servants,3 Antoine Pelletier. Joseph Mignaux. Gerard Langlois. + antoine Chenier. +Etienne Pagé. Duplasy, Jr., acting for his mother. +Antoine Gagné. +Pierre Dumont. Pagé. +Charles de Lisle. Janis. Jean Bapt Bauvais. Lachanse. Picard. Vital Bauvais. Louis Brazeaux. Jean Choisser. +B. Delisle. Bte. Janis. Nicolas Lachanse. René Soumande. +Louis de Lisle. 1 Mr. Williams signed the commission to Winston. See ante, p. 317. 3 This violent attack on Winston was made by only a few of the French, but some of these were among the most prominent, such as the members of the Bauvais family, Picard, Lachance, Brazeaux, Janis, and Duplasy.
Page 345
DODGE TO CLARK, MARCH 3, 1783 345 John Dodge to George R. Clark, March 3, 1783 [Draper MSS., 52J78 — A L. S.] Kasa 3 March 1783. Sin, the Curcomstances of My family Puts it out of my Power to wate on the Commisoner to make a final Settlement with the State, thare is Several Articles in my Books Chargd against you not Receptd for, when you Left fort Jefferson you told me to give your Negroes what I thought theay Stood in need of and you would Settle it with me on your Return which orders I Complid with. Likewise some Chiney Plates Delivered you my Self Bo* of Gratiote also a Demijon of Taffea Sent you By Cap* Brashars when he went to fort Jefferson in C° w* Gratiote, and one and half Dozen Plates two Salt Sellers Delivered Patr Kanedy for you Major williams will Show you his Recept as Also a Large Walnut Chest w* Drars one Iron Coffe Morter Deliverd L* Richd Clark By his Recp* all Purchased for you as Directed by your Letters to Me at Diferent times. Six Quires of Paper Sent you from Post Vincent when very Scarce which Since My Arival hear Last was Obliged to Pay Six Livres in Peltry Pr Quire. of Course Expect if the Comner Dispute the Account that you will Recept & Settle with them, as well as what Mr Benly Paid Conneye and Virgue [Vigo] on Mr Lebo's Account. Likewise Sunday Suplys for the troops which he advanced on the Strenth of your Letter and orders to Me at Diferent times Directing me to Let nothing Be wanting in me as much was in my Power as Ag* The Inhabitants are Making a Representation to the Commisioner Representing their treatment & Greavences During the time of the Militarys Stay hear. But theay are Convinced that all the Ruff Steps taken with them, was owing to the fais Representations of that Noted Villen Winston teling Mon- gomery that theay ware Strangers to Liberty and Must Be Ruled By a Rod of Iron or the Bayonet and if he wanted any thing he must send his Guards and take it By force teling the Inhabitants at the Same time that the Milary was a Band of theives and Robers and only Come to the Contry for that Purpose. News from Detroit that the King has Cald all his force from America to Defend his Crown if so a Very Political Step. Ware I in his Place I would have Done it Before I had Lost near 100-1000 men Confirmed that General Irwin has Intirely
Page 346
346 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Routed the Savages about the Lakes 92 sculps. News from Spain that jiberyalter is Certainly taken after the Surrender of the English had a Powder Plot first that after theay Marcht out Blew up and kild 13000 french and Spanyards for which theay Put four thousand Inglish Prisoners to the Sword, the Barer can give you all the Rest of the news. I am Dr General your Very Hum1 Ser* Jn° Dodge. [Addressed:] Geo. R. Clark Esqr. B.General and Command'. of Illinois Reg*. Falls Ohio By Majr. Williams. Richard Winston and Others to George R. Clark, March 30, 1783. [Draper MSS., 52J80—A. D. S.] Fort Nelson 30th March 1783 May It Please Your Excellante. we heave flatered ourselves with the Hopes of heaving the honour of Seeing you at this Post but to our Greate mortification we came too late notwithstanding that we have made all Possible Expedition Since we heard of the Commissioners Sitting to Settle the acote we heave wrote to them by this Opertunity Praying Them to Detain a few days for us — we Embrace the Same Opertunity and makes Bold to Trouble you, and Beggs The favour of you to Intercede for us with the Commis- sioners That they may Detain a few days longer than they Intended, we Start from this this day but our horses are so weake and much fateagued Together with the great fall of rain which will rais the waters all put together will oblige us to make but Little way, we therefore pray your Interest in our favour which will be Greatly Obliging us, who heave the Honour of Being with Great Respect. Your Excellances Most Humble & Obedient Servants Fr Bosseron1 Rich: Winston Fr trottier J. M. P. Legras Lieut. Colo John Williams [Addressed:] To His Excellance Brigadier Gennerall Clark Com- manding the western Department Lincoln 1 Bosseron and Legras were from Vincennes, and Trottier from Cahokia. The material illus- trating the work of the commission to examine the accounts in the West, which is to be found in the Va. State Library, will be incorporated in the volumes of George Rogers Clark Papers, now in prepara- tion. Fleming's Journal, which will be published, gives the account of how these men found the com- missioners. Carbonneaux's testimony is found in an abbreviated form in a letter from Walker Daniel to the Commissioners. (Va. State Papers, iii, 430.) See also, Journal of the House of Delegates, June 18, 27, 28, Dec. 19, 22, and May 22,1784, for the petitions of the Illinois agents for compensation and the acts of Assembly.
Page 347
DEATH OF WINSTON, 1784 347 The Death of Richard Winston, about 1784 [Draper MSS., 4J35-38 — Copy.] 3d Jany, 1820 Dear Sir, Your favor I have received and in reply to your enquiry I have to observe, that I came to Kentucky in the year 1777, and settled at Har- rodsburgh; Mr. Joseph Lindsay then lived there and acted as com- missary for supplying the people, and guards, at that place, and I know he Kept out two hunters for procuring supplies — Viz. Wm. Stewart and David Glenn, and that he did supply the Station; in spring 1778, Mr Lindsay (still acting as Commissary) went himself with a party of men from Harrodsburgh down to Russell Creek where Glenn and Stewart had spent the fall & winter and had a hunting Camp — We had along 21 or 22 horses, we found the Camp and there was a vast quantity of meat. Glenn & Stewart were out and did not return while we staid there, but had left a man at camp. There was one house of about 18 feet square & of a reasonable hight, filled with Meat, we loaded all the horses out of the huts, principally, what we took out of the house could hardly be missed, and returned to Harrodsburgh. in the Summer of 78 General Clark reached the Falls (Lindsay still acting as Commissary) and Clark sent across the Country from some where about Limestone to Harrodsburgh with orders to Col° Bowman, who Commanded at that Fort, to send on to Louisville all the Men who could get horses, and such as could not get horses to rendezvous at Drennin's Lick by a given day, where a man would meet the troops & pilot them to the place where Clark wanted them to go. I was of the party that went to Drennon's Lick; Mr Lindsay supplied the troops with provisions. At Drennon's Lick Simon Kenton met us and conducted us to the Falls, where we joined Clark and went on with him to Kaskaskias — at that place I staid from July '78 till Sepf 1779, when I returned to Kentucky and found Mr Lindsay still acting as Commissary for the supplys of the posts. In June, 1780, I went into Virginia & did not return till 1781; on my return Mr Lindsay was still acting as Commissary. In 1782 I was ordered to act as a guard to the Magazine at Harrodsburgh and the troops were supplyed by Mr Lindsay. In the Summer of that year I went into Virginia and did not return till 1784 but before I returned, the Indians had killed Mr
Page 348
348 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Lindsay. When I left the country in 1782 Gen1 Clark was prepairing an expedition, but the Indians broke into the Country & prevented it during that Summer, but it took place in the fall. While the troops lay on the Mississippi, Mr Lindsay did not supply us; a Mr Vincent, or Winston, I do not know which, was our Com- missary — he was a wealthy Man when he went there, & after a while the paper money fell to nothing & Vincent or Winston, supplyed us on his own credit. In 1784 I met Winston, if that was his name, in Richmond, who told Me he was ruin'd by the debts he incured in supplying the troops, & that he then was, & had been 18 months wait- ing on the Government of Virginia endeavouring to get some remuner- ation for his expendatures, but had all together failed. In 1786 I was again at Kaskaskas and called on the Widow Vincent, he having died at Richmond; I found her reduced from affluence to extreme poverty, the consequence she said of the debts her husband had incured for the State of Virginia, and for which he had never got any thing; but had died while soliciting for some payment. This is all I recollect in relation to the services of Mr Lindsay. Yr. mo. obdt Wm Beckley1 P. S. I recollect, since writing the above, that while the troops lay on the Mississippi Mr Lindsay came to us on his way to New Or- leans on business of the State of Virginia & took with him two men to row. Soon after two boat loads of Goods came up from Orleans, brought, as I understood, by Lindsay for the supply of the troops. I also recollect, that in 1782 when I was on my way to Virginia Gen1 Logan received orders from Gen1 Clark not to permit any man to leave the Country; but our party was too strong to be stop'd, therefore he requested us to give our names that he might inform Clark, which we did. Wm Beckley A true copy of the original in possession of Wm Lindsay Pogue, Esq., of Greenup County Ky. made by me Jno. B. Boyd* 1 Marginal note by John B. Boyd: "Father of John Beckley, who at one time was engaged in writing the Life of Kenton. I learn from Capt. Wm. Beckley, a brother of John B., that John McClung secured his brother's materials, when he (McClung) was writing his sketches of Western Adventure." 3 At the heading of this letter is written: "In the handwriting of A. K. Marshall of Mason Co. Boyd." This probably means that Boyd copied from a copy made by Marshall.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 349
CHAPTER X THE ASCENDENCY OF JOHN DODGE, MARCH, 1783, TO AUGUST 14, 1786 Land-grants to Dodge — Rocheblave Again — Aymé Comte, Judge — De Monbreun Enumerates his Services — A Fragment of a Court-Record — Dodge's Faction Petitions Congress — So Does Carbonneaux — Reports of Congressional Committees — the County-Lieutenant Upholds the Dignity of the United States — an Account of the Great Freshet — John Edgar Writes to Clark — The French Faction Petitions Congress — Gabrlel Cerré Answers Questions. Some Land-grants to John Dodge and Others, 1782-1784 [M. C, T. MSS.— A. D.] A Memorandum of Papers belonging to Bartholomew Tardiveau as purchaser from John Dodge & claiming under him, as follows; N° 1. A Grant made by the Court of KasKasKia to John Dodge June the 3d 1782, of a lot in the village, bounded toward Kas- KasKia River by lot of Alexis Beauvais, on the [other] side by the widow of James Lasource, extending in front from Mr Bentley's to the first gut, & in depth to the second gut. N° 2. A Grant made by the Court of KasKasKia, Sept. 17th 1782, to John Dodge, of a tract of land of six Arpents front & forty Arpents in depth from the ledge of rocks on [the] East side of the River KasKasKia; & bounded on one side [by] the heirs of Raphael Beauvais, & on the other by Mr Blouin; also of ten Arpents more in depth, & of the [MS. torn] breadth: which last, says says [sic] the Comession, shall not be ]MS. torn]. N°3. A Grant to Archibald Macnabb, Sepf 17th 1782, of [MS. torn] land of five Arpents in front & forty in depth, immedi- MS. torn] on back of Henry Smith's plantation N°4. A Grant to John Dodge, May 23d 1783, of a piece of [MS. torn] from the ledge of rocks, or the Western boundary of his 349
Page 350
35o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS plan[MS. torn] to the River KasKasKia, & included between the heirs of Rap[MS. torn] Beauvais & mr Daniel Blouin. N° 5. A Grant to Jean Baptiste Oillet or Voillet, Septe 17th 1783, of a tract of land of three Arpents in front, from the r[MS. torn] KasKasKia to the ledge of Rocks; and from thence of forty Arpents in depth with the same breadth of three Arpents adjoin- ing to land formerly granted to Mr de Rocheblave. N° 6. A Grant to Messr Clark & Wikoff, Sepf 17th 1783, of tract of six Arpents in front extending from the River KasKasKia to the Ledge of Rocks, & from thence forty Arpents in depth with the same breadth of six arpents, adjoining to land formerly of Daniel Murray. N° 7. a Grant to Henry Brawney, Sepf 18th 1783, of a tract of three Arpents in front, extending from the River KasKasKia to the Ledge of Rocks, & thence of forty Arpents in depth with the same breadth of three Arpents; bounded on one side by Lardner Clark & Wikoff, on the other by the Domaine. N° 8. A Grant to David Debas, Sepf 18th 1783, of a tract of three Arpents in front, extending from the River KasKasKia to the ledge of rocks, & thence of forty Arpents in depth with the same breadth of three Arpents; adjoining on one side to Henry Brawney, & on the other side to the Domaine. N°o. A Grant to Nicholas Canada, Sepf 19th 1783, of three Arpents in front, extending from the River Kaskaskia to the Ledge of rocks, & from thence of forty Arpents in depth with the same breadth of three Arpents, bounded on one side by David Debas or Debuesse, & on the other by the Domaine. N° 10. A Grant to James Bowie, Sepf 19th 1783, of three Arpents in front extending from the River KasKasKia to the Ledge of rocks, & from thence of forty Arpents in depth with the same breadth of three Arpents, bounded on one side by Nicholas Canada, & on the other by the Domaine. N° 11. A Grant to François Charleville, Sepf 19th 1783, of three Arpents in front, extending from the River KasKasKia to the Ledge of rocks, & from thence of forty Arpents in depth with the same breadth of three Arpents; bounded on one side by James Bowie, & on the other by the Domaine.
Page 351
SOME LAND GRANTS, 1782-1784 351 N° 12. A Grant to Roonrod Reckner, Septr 25th 1783, of three Ar- pents in front, extending from the River KasKasKia to the Ledge of rocks, & thence of forty Arpents in depth with the same breadth of three Arpents, bounded on one side by François Charleville, & on the other by the Domaine. N° 13. a Grant to Daniel Murray, Septr 19th 1783, of three Arpents in front, extending from the River KasKasKia to the Ledge of rocks, & from thence of forty Arpents in depth with the same breadth of three Arpents; bounded on one side by Oilet or Voilette, & on the other by the Domaine. N° 14. A Grant to John Choisser & André fagot, Sepf 25th 1783, of three Arpents to each, extending from the River KasKasKia to the ledge of rocks, & from thence of forty Arpents in depth [with] the same breadth of three Arpents each, bounded as follows [MS. torn] the three Arpents in front granted to John Choisser bounded on the South by the Rivière à Moutia, & on the North by the Domaine, and the three Arpents granted to André fagot [bounded] on the North by the Rivière à Moutia, & on the South by the Domaine. N° 15. A Grant to John Dodge, June 25th 1784, of a tract [of] land at the back of his grant of Sepf 17th 1782 N° 2, extending forty four Arpents in depth, & of Six arpents in front between the heirs of Raphaël Beauvais & MrDaniel [MS. torn]. N° 16. A Grant to Minard Asturgus, Sepf 17th 1784, of a tract of land extending from the River KasKasKia to the ledge of rocks, & from thence of forty Arpents in depth, bounded on one side by Clark & Wikoff, & on the other by John Dodge. N° 17. A Grant to John Marshal, Decr 13th 1784, of five arpents front, extending from the Mississippi to the ledge of rocks & from thence of forty two Arpents more in depth, adjoining land of Mr Bonds on one side; & on the other, bounded, it seems, by Wa[M5. torn] land.1 1The grants of the years 1783 and 1784 were made by Timothé de Monbreun. The various land registry books in the auditor's office at Springfield show that a large number of grants were made by him.
Page 352
35* ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Philippe de Rocheblave to Governor Haldimand, November 3, 1783 [B. M., 21783, f. 351.—A. L. S.] Monsieur, Votre excellence m'ayant fait l'honneur de me dirre qu'elle ne pouvoit concourir en rien de ce qui avoit raport aux diferentes demandes qu'on pourroit former en vertu de l'acte de parlement qui ne luy est point par- venu oficielement, je me garderay bien de la fatiguer par de nouvelles instances a ce sujet. Malheureusement pour moy je suis forcé de les établir tout de suite parce qu'il faut que j'aille chercher a chiteagou Mde de rocheblave et le reste de la famille, que je termine toutes mes affaires dans les pays d'en- haut avant que la possession en soit donnée aux américains, qu'il pour- roit se faire que les déclarations fussent exigées en mon abscence et qu'a mon arrivée, je ne trouva plus votre excellence icy qui vraisamblable- ment sera bien aise après tant de peines et de travaux sera bien aise de goûter un peu de repos en europe dan le quel cas je me trouverais icy sans appuy, j'ose solliciter de votre bienfaisance de m'honorer d'un mot [Translation.] Sir: Your excellency having done me the honor to tell me that you would be unable to agrée to anything that had to do with the différent claims which may be brought forth in virtue of the act of Parliament, which had not reached you officially,1 I shall take care not to tire you by new entreaties on this subject. Unfortunately for me I am forced to establish my claims at once, for I have to go to Chicago for Madame de Rocheblave and the rest of my family and to settle ail my affairs in the upper country, before the pos- session is given to the Americans; and it may be necessary that the décla- rations of claims under the act be made in my absence, and that, on my return, I may not find your Excellency here; for undoubtedly your Excel- lency will be very glad, after so many hardships and labors, to enjoy a little rest in Europe, in which case I should find myself here without any support. Therefore, I venture to ask of your bounty to honor me with a 1 Act of Parliament granting half pay to certain American provincial corps. This passed the House June 27, 1783. Parliamentary History, xxiii., 1050, et seq.
Page 353
ALARY TO COMTE, JANUARY 16, 1784 353 de réponce qui fut au moins un temognage de mon zélé pour le bien du service ce seroit une obligation de plus que vous auroit celuy qui a l'hon- neur d'etre avec la plus respectueuse reconoisance de votre excellence. Monsieur, Le très humble et très obéissant serviteur PHILIPE ROCHEBLAVE la maladie de mes enfants ne me permet pas de metre ma letre au net. quebec le 3 novembre 1783. [Translation.] short answer which may be at least a witness of my zeal for the welfare of the service. This would be still another obligation due you from him who has the honor to be, with the most respectful gratitude, your Excellency's Very humble and very obedient servant, Philippe Rocheblave. The sickness of my children does not permit me to make a fair copy of my letter. Quebec, November 3,1783. Madame Alary to Aymé Comte, January 16, 1784 [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] a Monsieur aimé Compte Lieutenant Civile et gouverneur de La Centrée dea Illinoin &c &c &c Juge a la ville en district des KasKasKias Monsieur, Supli très humblement Madame Ve alary Disant quel a Sur L'autre Bord de La Riviere Des Kas. une sucrery quelle possède depuis la mort de sa défunte mère que La dernière Possedoit depuy Longtems. Et que [Translation.] To M. Aymé Comte, Civil Liontonant and Cwmmi of tb» Cewaty of the Illinoio, etc., etc., etc., Judge in village of District of Kaskaskia.1 Sir: Madame Alary, a widow, begs very humbly to inform you that she has on the other bank of the Kaskaskia River a sugar plantation, which has been in her possession since the death of her late mother, who in turn 1 The erasure and correction of tille are made in the same handwriting as that of the judgment of the court. The same is true of the date at the end. The document seems to indicate a temporary overthrow of the power of Timothé de Monbreun, but there is no other evidence for such an event. Although the signature of Avmc Comte seems to be genuine and the document shows no suspicious marks, yet it is possible that it is a forgery to prove tiue to the land in question before the U. S. land commissioners, before whom it was actually produced.
Page 354
354 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Monsieur thimoté de Monbrun cy devant commandant auroit concédé La ditte sucrery à La demande Du sr Pierre Picard ce que La supliante ayant sçu, Elle auroit Eté En La maison du dit sieur Picard acompagné De Mr Jh Lonval Et Jérôme Dany, Pour Luy faire défense dy travaillé Le sr. Picard n'a Eu aucune Egard à cette avertisement. il La trans- porté à Monsieur antoine morin quy a fait Défense a La Supliante dy travaillé vu quelle navoit Point de titre de propriété, Et que La Ditte sucrery Luy apartient, il est vray que La ditte supliante n'en à Point par Ecrit, mais La possession quelle En â Depuy sy longtems vaut un Ecrit. La Supliante sofre a fournir des certificats] Des anciens de ce païs comme quoy que La Sucrery Luy apartient depuy ce longtems. Ce Considéré Monsieur il vous Plaise dordonné audit sr. morin de ny Point travaillé, a seule fin que La Supliante y puisse faire ces travaux, et de condamner Le dit sr morin a tous dépend domage et interest Et La Supliante ne cessera De faire des voeux Pour vôtre conservation vôtre très humble obeisante Servante Domiïtl Baillasjon. + aux KasKasKias Le 16 janvier 1784 [Translation.] owned it for many years. Madame Alary further begs to inform you that M. Timothé de Monbreun, former commandant, granted the afore- said sugar plantation to M. Pierre Picard on his pétition, and that, when the suppliant learned of this, she went to the house of the said M. Picard accompanied by MM. J. Lonval and Jérôme Danis, in order to forbid him to work on it. M. Picard paid no attention to this warning. He sold it to M. Antoine Morin, who in turn forbade the suppliant to work on the plantation inasmuch as she did not have the titles to the property and the said sugar plantation belonged to him. It is true that the said suppliant has no titles in writing, but the possession of it for such a long time is well worth a written deed. The suppliant is ready to furnish cer- tificates from the old settlers of this country as a proof that the sugar plantation has belonged to her for a long time. Having considered thèse things, sir, may it please you to order the said M. Morin not to work there, so that the suppliant may be able to work on it; and may you see fit to condemn the said M. Morin to the costs, damages, and interest, and the suppliant will never cease to pray for your welfare. Your very humble and very obedient servant, Kaskaskia, January 16, 1784. Domitil Baillarjon.
Page 355
DE MONBREUN'S MEMORIAL, NOVEMBER n, 1794 355 Vu La requette cy dessus et dautres part nous Déclarante n'avoir point de Concestion; à nous présenté Comme L'intantion De LEtats a tant que tous personnes cherche acquérir son bonheur; La Concession ac- cordé au Sr. Picard par Le lieutenant de Comté au nom De Lêtat Sortira son plain Et Entier Effets mandons &c au KasKasKias Le 16 janvier 1784. Aymé Comte [title illegible] [Endorsed:] 1784 requette présente par mad. Alary contre Ant. morin i6me janvier [Translation.] In view of the petition, above and on the other page, wherein it is stated that there is no concession, and since it is the desire of the state that all men seek to procure their own happiness, the grant, given to M. Picard by the lieutenant of the county in the name of the state, shall have its full effect. Ordered, etc., at Kaskaskia, January 16, 1784. Aymé Comte. [Endorsed:] 1784. Petition presented by Madame Alary against Ant. Morin, January 16. Memorial of Timothé de Monbreun, November 11, 1794. [Va. State Library.— Copy.] To the Honorable the Speaker and Gentlemen of the House of Delegates ot Virginia The Memorial of Timothy de Monbreun Respectfully sheweth That your memorialist was a Lieutenant in Colonel Clark's or the Illinois Regiment raised by this State during the late war; that after the disbanding of that Regiment, to wit, on the 18th of January 1783, he was appointed Commandant of KasKaskias and the neighbourhood in which post he continued until the 14th day of August 1786 as by the paper herewith marked A will fully appear.1 The defenceless situation of that Country at that time, surrounded by several inimical and hostile tribes of Indians, and distracted by a number of disaffected inhabitants, rendered the office a critical and difficult undertaking. Without troops to oppose the hostile designs of the savages, without any coercive means to keep under subjection a country where a number of restless spirits were exciting commotions and troubles, the greater circumspection and 1 His commission, ante, p. 320.
Page 356
356 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS management became necessary, and the Commandant was induced to temporize with all parties in order to preserve tranquility, peace and harmony in the Country and to provide against invasions and inroads of the Savages: Thus situated his first endeavours were to conciliate the minds of the Indians to at least a neutrality as to the Country under his immediate command, and at the same time to prepare them by gentle means to become peaceable towards all the American States. In order to attain this desirable object, he was compelled to send con- fidential Agents to the several tribes, who succeeded in their negotiations beyond his most sanguine expectations. The Cherokees and several other nations sent some of their chief Warriors to KasKasKias, and a partial treaty was there affected with them in behalf of the Illinois Country. These operations were attended with considerable expence to your Memorialist, who, as there was no provision made by law to defray those contingent charges, was absolutely compelled to entertain and supply with provisions all the Indians, of the several tribes who came to KasKasKies; besides, policy required, that small presents should be made to them, in order to preserve their friendship. Your Memorialist, therefore, chearfully and most willingly advanced as far as his circumstances permitted, relying with the most unlimited confidence on the equity and generosity of the State of Virginia for reimbursing him these his very necessary expenditures. Copies of his accounts of supplies furnished and of his travelling expences from KasKasKias to Cahokias, and to St. Genevieve are herewith marked B C.1 The provision supplies he acknowledges were not all his own property, part were the property of the public, part the property of militia officers, and part supplies by himself. Had your Memorialist then thought it necessary he would have endeavored to keep an exact account of his real expenditures, but being a native of Canada, little acquainted with the prevailing language in the United States and less with the regular mode of doing business of this nature, he neglected so to do. To those measures of your Memorialist, he humbly conceives, ought, in great part, to be ascribed the tranquility enjoyed by that Country during his command, as he was incessantly employed in quiet- ing animosities between the French Natives and American Settlers, 'See post, p. 357, 358.
Page 357
DE MONBREUN'S EXPENSES, 1783-1786 357 treating the Indians with benevolence and preserving the dignity of the State whenever the Spanish officers from the other side of the Missis- sippi interfered or were guilty of encroachments, which sometimes did happen, as by the letter herewith marked D1, will fully appear, and in consequence of which the two Derserters were released and the dignity of the Commonwealth preserved. Besides the various expences of provisions to the Indians, presents to them, and the payment of emisaries and expresses, your Memo- rialist begs leave to represent that the attention he was obliged to pay to the duties of the station he had the honor to fill, did not permit him to consult and attend to his own private concerns, to the great detri- ment and injury of himself and family, as must evidently appear by the facts before recited. He also begs leave to represent that during his command as afore- said an offer was made to him by the Spanish Governor of St. Louis, Cruzat, of a similar command to that which he held, on the Spanish side of the river, with the pay of a Captain of the Spanish service an- nexed, which offer he rejected, preferring the honor of serving the state of Virginia. Your Memorialist, therefore, addresses himself to the honor, justice and generosity of the Honorable the Legislature of the said State for a Compensation for his expences, and for his personal services and exertions during his aforesaid command, and your Memorialist shall ever pray &c. Richmond Novr 11th 1794. Expense Account of Timothé de Monbreun, 1783-1786 [Va. State Library.— Copy.] B.2 Acco' of provisions furnished the Indians at Kaskaskias by Timothy De Monbreun in the Years 1783. 4. 5. 6. Account of Expenses made and provisions furnished to the Indians for Account of the United States in the Years 1783,1784,1785 and 1786. 1 See post, p. 374. a These two expense accounts, marked B. and C, with the commission issued by Richard Win- ston to De Monbreun, were enclosed with the above memorial. See ante, p. 355.
Page 358
358 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 1783 Doll. Shill®> pense 1784 1785 1786 7 Gallons Taffia 1 300 lb beef a 10 D. 180 lb pork a 20 D. 43 3 6 28 1 8 4 4 (1 28 r4 3° 7 36" II 7 4 3 92 » 60 22 5 4 34 35 'il*"] 7 48 350 lb beef a 10 D 181 lb pork a 20 D 14 Minots Indian Meal. Errors Excepted Dollars 495 [sic] 1 c. Account of Expenses for Account of this State, in different Journies from Kaskaskias to Kahokias, and from St Louis of [and ?] Kaskaskias to St Genevieve, in the Years 1783, 1784, 1785 and 1786. Two Journies from Kaskaskias to Kahokias Dollars 8th of a D. Carriage hire at 20 Dollars 4° Three Journies on horse back a 10 D 30 Thrice Crossing the Mississippi a 4/8ths 1 4 Nine days board a 6/8 d Day 6 6 Journies from Kaskaskias to St Genevieve Dollars 8th of a D. Twice on horseback a1D 2 Crossing the river four times a 4/8ths 2 Three days board a 6/8ths 2 2 1784 Two Journies from Kaskaskias to Kahokias in a carriage 40" Two J° on horseback a 10 D 20 Twice Crossing from Cahoes to St Louis 1 Six days board at 6/8ths 4 4 Journies from Kaskaskias to St Genevieve Four Journies on horseback aiD 4 Crossing river four times a 4/8 2 Two days board 1 Ds. 158 [sic]
Page 359
FRAGMENT OF COURT RECORD, JUNE 3, 1784 359 Fragment of Court Record Written in Record-Book of the French Régime, June 3, 1784.1 [K. MSS.— D. S.] Registre des audience du district de la ville Des KasKasKias Comté Des illinois tenu cejourdhuy, troisième jour De juin mil sept cent quatre vingt Et quatre, par nous thimothé Demonbrun Lieutenant député de La ditte Comté et magistrat du district &c. thimoté de monbreun C D Avoir oiii Les party De La part du Sir Wiffok Et Clark plaintiffe Et de La pard du Sr. Daniel murray Défendeur Les partie Comparante En personne oiii Leur débat; Le dit deffendeur Daniel murray; a reconnu pardevant Nous magistrat Le Compte présente par Messi Wiffok et Clark La somme de cent trois livre Cinq sols, que ledit Sr murray reconnois devoir Le Compte En dat du neuf ocbre 1783 &c. Nous Condamnons Ledit Sieur Daniel murray de payer sous huit [Translation.] Record of the sessions of the Court of the District of the Town of Kaskaskia, County of the Illinois, held this day, June 3, 1784, by us Timothé de Monbreun, County Lieutenant of the said County and Magistrate of the District, etc. Timothé de Monbreun, C. D. We have heard the parties; on the part of MM. Wikoff and Clark, plaintiffs, and on the part of M. Daniel Murray, defendant, the parties appearing in person. We have heard their arguments. The said defendant, Daniel Murray, has acknowledged before us, the magis- trate, the account, presented by MM. Wikoff and Clark, amounting to the sum of one hundred and three livres and five sols, and M. Murray acknowledges that he owes the account dated October 9, 1783, etc. We condemn the said M. Daniel Murray to pay, within a week from the date of the present, the said account, which he has acknowledged.2 1 This record of a session held by De Monbreun is written on a page of a record book of the French régime, sandwiched between a few registries of widows' oaths to inventories made by the clerk of the Virginia period. 1 The opponents of John Dodge made some capital out of this case. According to them, arrange- ments to pay the debt had been made, and it was collected in a forcible manner, that ended in the death of Daniel Murray. See post, p. 428.
Page 360
360 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS jours datte des present Ledit Compt quil a reConu Mandons &c au KasKasKias Le 3e juin 1784. Et aisy [sic] que les frais Copie Livré 15 THTMOTÉ DE MONBREUN C. D. oui Les party de La part du Sieur John Dodge plaintiffe et de la part du sr. ant. Bienvenus fils Deffendeur. oui Leurs débatte Le Billiet du deffendeur présenté reconnu par Ledit Sieur ant. Bienvenus fils devoir Et ainsy Ledit Sie. Dodge luy accordant Délais jusquau traize du present mois. Et nous Luy Con- damnon assatisfaire son billiet au terme accordé Mandons &c. Et ainsy que les frais &c au KasKasKias Le troisième juin Mil sept cent quatrevingt Et quatre THTMOTÉ de Monbreun C. D. [Translation.] We so order, etc. At Kaskaskia, June 3, 1784. And to pay the costs also. Timothé de Monbreun, C. D. Copy delivered, 15 livres. Heard the parties; on the part of M. John Dodge, plaintiff and on the part of M. Ant. Bienvenu, Junior, defendant. Heard their arguments. The note of the defendant which was presented has been acknowledged as due by the said M. Ant. Bien- venu, Junior; and since the said M. Dodge grants him a delay till the thirteenth of the present month, we condemn him to satisfy his note at the time accorded. So we order, etc. And he is to pay the costs likewise, etc. At Kaskaskia, June 3, 1784. Timothé de Monbreun, C. D. Timothé de Monbreun to President of Congress, June l6, 1784. [C. C. Pp., I11., Kaskaskias and Ky., XXX., 463.— L. S.] Kaskaskie June i6th. 1784. Sir, Accompanying this under cover is a memorial from a few of the principle Inhabitants of the Village of Kaskaskie, which accident enabled them to present, and I have the honr. to inclose, and which
Page 361
DE MONBREUN TO CONGRESS, JUNE i6, 1784 361 permit me to assure assure [sic] your Excellency contains a Candid representation of facts, and hope Congress will give the prayer thereof a hearing in due time, and grant such relief as Congress shall Judge Just and Reasonable. By a Gentleman who came here mearly on a visit to this Country a few days ago, I am informed that Virginia has relinquished all claim to the Country Northwest of the River Ohio unto the United States, which gives me great pleasure, and permit me to Congratulate your Excellency on the event. Some years ago I was appointed County Lieutenant by the state of Virginia for the Illenoise County in which Office to this day, but my- self, and the Civil Department here have been much Imberased, and found great difficulty in keeping Deciplin and subordenation, Owing to the Sufferings of the People, and the Clamours of Designing men, amongst the Ignorant part of them, which your Excellency knows are too often able to give trouble to the better sort, and those in Authority. However we have heretofore been so fortunate as to be able to Counter Act their Mischeevous Designs, and to keep up some flimsy kind of Government, but permit me to assure your Excellency that I am firmly of Opinion (being well acquainted with the Geneous of those people) that if something is not soon done to strengthen our hands we shall not be able to support authority. On the Contrary was Government firmly Established, and proper Incourage given we sould soon become Respectable, and I cannot help thinking with the Memorialists, that many of the people on the Spanish side would come to us, and those return who left us since the Commencement of the war, as they went away on Account of Irregularities Commited here. The People of the other villages and Elecwhere [sic] in this Country could not join the present Memorilists, as the Gentleman who carries this could not wait until they could be Convened. I hope your Excellency will please to Excuse the Liberty I have taken in this adress, but my Perticuliar situation I conce[i]ve makes it my duty to make this Representation. I have the honr. to be with the highest Esteem Your Excellencys Most Obdt. Very Hmb Servt His Excellency his1 Thimoté Demonbreunt mark Thomas Mifflin Esquire President of Congress 1 "His mark," added in handwriting of endorsement, is evidently a joke.
Page 362
36a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS P S. The People have Prevailed on Colo. Pentecost,1 on whom they greatly rely to Promise to deliver their Memorial into your Excel- lencys own hands, and to whom they would beg leave to refer your Ex- cellency for any information respecting this Country Thimote demonbreunt [Endorsement:] No 19. Letter June 16. 1784 from Kaskaskies [Addressed:] His Excellency Thomas Mifflin Esquire President of Congress fowd by Colo: Pentecost Memorial to Congress by the Faction of John Dodge, June 22, 1784. [C. C. Pp., xxx., 435— A. D. S.] L'honnorable president Des Etats unis Dans Le Congrées asem- blée &c &c &c Memoire Des principaux Des habitants Du village Des KasKasKias pour eux même Et differante autres habitant des villages de Comté des illenois. Nous prenont La liberté de vous presenté notre memoires dupuis Le Commancement de la juste Et nécésaire derniere Guerre avec La brétagne, Etant toujours àtachée En nous pour La Causses De Lamer- ique, Mais nous avons toujours été Gouverné par Le militaire Et Loix de la Grande Bretagne, à Notres mortiffications Cela Nous à Enpeché [Translation.] To the Honorable President of the United States, in Congress assembled, etc., etc. Memorial of the chief inhabitants of the village of Kaskaskia, for themselves and other inhabitants of the villages of the County of Illinois. We take the liberty of presenting to you this memorial. From the time of the commencement of the just and necessary late war with Great Britain, we were always attached to the cause of America, but we were always ruled by the army and law of Great Britain; and this, to our mortification, hindered us from taking part with our fellow-citizens who 1 Dorsey Pentecost was a Virginian, who settled in Westmoreland County, Pa., in 1769. He served as magistrate for Pennsylvania, but in the boundary dispute with Virginia sided with the latter. In 1777 he moved to Washington County. He assisted Clark m raising troops for the Illinois expedi- tion. His presence in Illinois at this time was due to his desire to look after the land, ceded by Father Gibault, which he had bought. (See ante, p. 77, and III. Hist. Collertians, ii., p. 5S1.) The above note has been adapted from Thwaitesand Kellogg, Dunmorc's War, 101.
Page 363
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS, JUNE 22, 1784 363 de prendre part avec nos Compatriotte quils onts Eté maltraité Et ausi pour dire notre sentiment Depuis nous avons Eté soulagé par Les troupes qu'ils-ont Eté Envoyé par La Virginie, que nous avons Reçus à bras ouvers Et Nous avons avancé tous Ce qui Etoit Nesesaire pour Leurs subsistance Et Nous avons joind nos armes avec Eux. Notre Mémoire prend La liberté de vous observer que Ces même troupes qui sont venus Etoit tous nûs Et dénuées de tous, (par La longue marche autresvers des pays qui n'estoit pas àbituée) Larivé de Ces troupes Nous a donné Coeur, a déclaré Notre atachement pour La juste causses pour La quelle ils Etoit Engagé En fournissant toutes Les nécesaires pour faire La situation agréable Et aissé, Et actuellement avons Marché dans Les Expedition volontairement, Et pour Les four- niture que nous avons fait Nous avons Reçus de L'argent Continantalle Et Lêtres D'échange sur Le public, sure pied d'argent sonnante Et àprés La déprésiasion de Cette argent Le d'ommage du peuple Et La plus Grande partye Ne sont point EnCorre payé, se tors que nous avons point mérité ni pencé que Cela auré arivéz à taretté Notre Commerce qui Nous Causes une grande pauvretté dans Nos familes, Mais Nous avons toujours un grand désire pour rendre service pour le bien du [Translation.] were ill-treated, and also from expressing our opinions. Since that time, however, we have been relieved by the troops who were sent from Vir- ginia and whom we received with open arms and furnished with all that was necessary for their support; and we joined our arms to theirs. In our memorial we take the liberty to call to your attention that these same troops, who came, were naked and in want of all things on account of the long march across regions which were not inhabited. The arrivai of these troops gave us courage to declare our attachment for the just cause, in which they were engaged, by furnishing all the things necessary for making their position agreeable and comfortable; and we actually marched, of our own accord, in their expeditions. For the supplies we furnished we received continental money and letters of exchange on the public on the basis of specie, and that after the depreciation of this money. The loss to the people and the greater part of these letters of exchange are not yet paid. This evil which wedid not deserve or expect has hindered our commerce and has brought a great poverty upon our families. Still we have a great desire to render service for the public
Page 364
364 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS public Nous àvons volontairement donné part de la production de nos dure travaux, aux même tems Notre familles, à Eté Réduit a une situ- ation deplorable, Nous avons toujours fourni, plus que nous pouvions faire, Nos fourniture, Ce trouvant pas sufissantes pour La subssistance des troupes, Nos vache Et Boeuf des travaux ont Eté tué dans notre Commune Et dans nos Coures ont pris par forces de notre familles qui Etoit dans La tristesse pour L'armé &c. Et quand nous avons fait notre presentation au Commandant En demandant de faire notre tristesse ou notre misère plus douce.—Nous avons reçus pour reponce que Les troupes vive Et vous en seré payé, Nous avons Experience des premiers Et non pas La dernier Et il non pas un juste arangement de nos Comptes. Et âpres Les troupes ont Continué avec Nous quatres ans — Et differ- ent Expeditions ont Eté fait Contre Les ostillite des different tribus des sauvages sur Lesquelles Nous avons toujours Marchée Et toutes Les poste des Englais ont Eté Réduit, Et après Celas Les troupes se sont Retiré de nous Nous souposson parceque Nous Etions point Capable de donner La subssistance plus Longtems parceque Nous Etions Réduit à La dernier Extrémité des misère Nous-même. Àprés tous Celas il [Translation.] welfare. We voluntarily gave part of the product of our labors, at the very time that our families were reduced to a deplorable condition. We have always furnished more than we were able to. Since our sup- plies were not sufficient for the maintenance of the troops, our cows and plow-oxen have been killed in our very commons and in our yards, and taken by force from our families which were in great distress because of the army, etc. And when we made a remonstrance to the commandant asking that our sad condition and our poverty be alleviated, we received for an answer that the troops had to live and that we would be paid. We have experienced the first but not the last part, and it is not an equitable settlement of our accounts. Then the troops remained with us for four years, making several expeditions against the different tribes of hostile Indians, on which we have always marched, and all the posts of the English were captured. After this the troops were withdrawn from us, because, as we suppose, we were not able to give them their subsistence any longer, since we ourselves were reduced to the last extremity of poverty. After all this they left
Page 365
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS, JUNE 22, 1784 365 nous ont Laisse à la furi Et Barbari des nations, Cependent peut de nous ont Eté tuée que Nos animaux détruite si peut que Les troupes avez Laisée Notre mémoire prend La liberté de vous présente ausi que sure tous par La faute du Commandant, Le payement qui est aretté Le mal Employ de L'argent asemble avec Les sirconstance de notre partic- ullier situation, Boucoup des peuple du pays dans Leurs oppullances ont desendu, dans La dernière indilgence, Pour Cela Nous vous avons tous donné un juste détaille de la vérité permette nous de vous àsurer de votre Excelence Et votre honnorable Corps, que tous ce que nous soiton a présent Est de nous maître Le plus prottement que vous trou- verez a propos dans Le même Etat avec nos Compatriotte pour faire une Nouvelle Etat Donné Nous Le même droit de puissance liberté Et indépendence avec Les autres Etats, que Nous Croyons que celas Contribura a Notre bonneurs Et nous maissons un Etat Respectable Et Contribura a la vantage des Etats unis. Permette Nous d'observer que nous somme d'opion [sic] si Le Congre trouve à propau de nous faire Ce bonneurre dun Nouvaux Etat ici Et [Translation.] us to the fury and barbarity of the nations, and some of us were killed, and our animais were destroyed — the few the troops had left. We take the liberty also of showing you in this mémorial that above ail through the fault of the commandant, the delayed payments, the misuse of money, together with the circumstances of our spécial situation, many persons of wealth have descended to the depths of poverty; con- cerning ail this we have given you a just account of the truth. Permit us to assure your Excellency and your honorable body, that ail we now pray for is that you place us as soon as you may see fit in the same condi- tion as that of our fellow-citizens so that we may form a new state; and that you will give us the same right of power, liberty, and indépendence with the other states, for we think that this will contribute to our welfare, and enable us to make a respectable state which will be of advantage to the United States.1 Permit us to say that we are of the opinion that, if Congress sees fit to grant us the blessing of a new state here and to encourage the 1 This clause ma; hare been inspired by a corresponding movemenl for autonomy in Kentucky County.
Page 366
366 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS EnCourager Le peuple pour venire Etablire Parmis nous La ventage Et Richese des terres Et du Commerce fera notre oppulance En peu de temps. Nous prenon La liberté d'observer ausi, quil est ausi nécésaire pour Le Congre danvoyé parmis nous qu'elleque personne pour Nous aidere a faire une Constitution Et mette nous dans un Etat pour faire toute sorte darangement Nous sommes pas un petit Corps de peuple, mais Comme nous avons Eté toujours Gouverné par Le militaire, Nous avons jamais Eu dexperience dune machine d'une republic pour La malise des gens mal intentionné, nous avons boucoup de difficulté pour faire obeire aux ordre quil Nous ont Eté donné Et Comme nous sommes proche dun autres Royome qui Est Gouverné par Le militaire peu estre ce bien mais nous prions Le Congrées particulièrement de Considéré si Ces pas néssésaire dansvoyé un peut de troupe ici pour assister a Etablire un Gouvernement Civile jusqua que Le pays viendray à Ces fort Ce la donnera de La téreur aux nations, Et fera voire à nos voysin que nous Commenson a devenire Respectable, Nous sommes àsuré que si nous avions un Gouvernement bien Etabli Et policé cela Lathirtré La plus grand parties des peuples de Lautres Rive de nos voisin. [Translation.] people to come and settle among us, the advantageous situation, the richness of the soil, and commerce will bring us abundance in a short time. We further take the liberty to state that it is also necessary for Con- gress to send to us somebody to help us in drawing up a constitution and put us in a condition to make ail kinds of settlements. We are not a small body of people, but, as we have always been governed by the military, we have never had expérience with the machinery of a republic. On account of the malignity of some evil-minded persons, we have had much trouble in maintaining obédience to the laws which were given to us; and as we are near to another kingdom which is governed by the military, perhaps it is as well [?] that we pray Congress to consider in particular if it is not necessary to send a few troops hère to assist in establishing a civil government, until the country shall have become sufficiently strong. That will inspire fear in the nations and will make our neighbors see that we are becoming respectable. We feel sure that, if we had a well-established government and police, this would attract the majority of the people from our neighbor's shore.
Page 367
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS, JUNE 22, 1784 367 Nous nous reposon sur La juste Et sincérité de votre honorable Corp Nous vous demandons permistion de vous livrées nos très respec mémoire, a votre serieusse Consideration, En demandans tous Ce que vous trouverez a propos dans La presentation, Celas Rendra justice à tous Et Ces Lesoit de tous Les honnêtes gense. Notre mémoire Et de prier toujours pour Le honneur de La Com- munauté En general. Au KasKasKias Le 22e juin 1784./. Josephe Blay Sa marque Clemet Drury habitant de la prari de Joseph Dupuis sa marque vache John Marshall François Roussaux Sa de jacque Devenies sa marque mark Henry Smith ni[col]as Canada Sa marque jan Baptiste St onge Sa jacque chenter Sa marque marque Antoine bruyat [Translation.] » We entrust ourselves to the justice and sincerity of your honorable body. We beg permission to submit our very humble memorial for your serious consideration, praying for all that which you shall deem fit in this presentation. That will do justice to all, and this is the earnest wish of all honest men. Our memorial is to pray always for the welfare of the community in general. Kaskaskia, June 22, 1784.1 Joseph Blay, his mark, an in- Clement Drury. habitant of Prairie de Vache Joseph Dupuis, his mark. [du Rocher]. John Marshall. François Desrouisseaux, his Jacques Devignais, his mark. mark. Henry Smith. Nicolas Canada, his mark. Jean Bapt. St. Onge, his Jacques Chenier, his mark. mark. Antoine Buyat. 1 If this list includes the names of the entire faction of John Dodge, one wonders how he maintained his ascendency. With the exception of the names of Lachanse, Pierre Langlois, Antoine Morin, and Antoine Bauvais, there are no names of the prominent citizens. Thereare in all nineteen French names, one is that of a woman, nine only can sign their names. St. Onge is probably from Vincennes. and the names of Dupuis, Lasoude, Richard, Labriere, and Damours do not appear on the census of Kaskaskia (see post, p. 414); but since these all belong to the class of aliases and Dupuis at least is known to have lived in the village, this may have no significance. On Dodge's faction, see III. Hist. Collections, ii., p. exxix. In giving an account of this petition in the Introduction to vol. ii., I mistook the names of Blay and Richard for English and therefore, credited Dodge with only seventeen French followers.
Page 368
368 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Jno Dodge W« WIKOFF La Chanse Jas. Willey Jas. Moore Pre Langlois Thos. Hugh's Gabrl Peterson Tobias Brashear Shadrack Bond John Williams Bienvenus fils antoine Bauvais mari messayé. veuve Louis Lasoude sa marque Nicholas Smyth A. Morin P Richard Gerard Langlois Raimon Labrier sa marque JAN BATISTE D AMOURS Sa marque D S Licks En Registré au greffe a les page 3. 4. 5. 6. Et 7. folio 4. au Kas- KasKias Le 22e juin 1784./- PRe Langlois Greffier de Comté [Endorsed:] No. 13 Memorial — Inhabitants of the KasKasKies and Ilinois Villages — [Translation.] Bienvenu,Junior. John Dodge. Wm. Wikoff. Lachanse. Jas. Willey. Jas. Moore. Pierre Langlois. Thos. Hughes. Gabrl. Peterson. Tobias Brashear. Shadrack Bond. John Williams. Antoine Bauvais. Marie Messaye, widow. Louis Lasoude, his mark. Nicholas Smyth. A. Morin. P. Richard. Gerard Langlois. Raymond Labriere, his mark. Jean Baptiste Damours, his mark. D. S. Licks. Registered at the clerk's office on pages 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of folio 4. At Kaskaskia, the 22d of June, 1784. Pierre Langlois, Clerk of the County.
Page 369
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS, DECEMBER 8, 1784 369 Memorial of François Carbonneaux to Congress, December 8, 1784. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia, and Ky., xxx., 453.— D. S.] To the Honble. The United States of America in Congress assembled. The Memorial of Francois Carbonneaux of the Illinois Country, Agent for the Inhabitants thereof humbly sheweth That the said Inhabitants to the Number of four hundred Families, exclusive of a like Number at Post Vincent, labour under the greatest Inconveniences for want of Order and good Government. That many ill disposed Persons have taken Refuge in their Country — That Population is daily encreasing — That their Property is invaded and arrested from them by the Hands of daring Intruders and that Violences are frequently committed in various Ways, against their Per- sons, and against the Persons and Properties of the Natives. Your Memorialist doth therefore, in behalf of the Inhabitants aforesaid, hum- bly pray, that Congress will be pleased to take their distressed Case into Consideration, and either immediately establish some Form of Govern- ment among them, and appoint Officers to execute the same, or that they will nominate Commissioners to repair to the Illinois, to inquire into their Situation, and to consult with the Inhabitants thereon; and to do and execute such Matters and Things as they shall find necessary, until some regular Government can be established. Your Memorialist conceives that it is in the Power of Congress by such a Measure, not only to restore Tranquility among the Inhabitants of an extensive and fertile Country, but to give Peace to those of the Frontiers of Virginia, and to establish, a valuable Commerce, not only with the Natives, but with new Spain, which is now wholly carried on by British Subjects from Canada. Trenton Deer. 8th 1784 Carbonneaux * [Endorsed:] No. 16 Memorial Francis Carbonneaux Agent for the Inhabitants of the Illinois — 1 After Winston and Carbonneaux had failed to obtain any satisfaction from Virginia, Carbon- neaux appealed to the Continental Congress. This body took into consideration bis memorial, and only later received that ot the party of John Dodge. See following documents.
Page 370
37o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Congressional Committee on Carbonneaux's Memorial, February 15, 1785. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia, and Ky., xxx., 431.— A. D. S.] The Committee consisting of [blank] to whom was referred a Memo- rial from Francis Carbeneaux and the papers accompanying it beg leave to submit the following Report. That as satisfactory documents have been produced by the said Carbeneaux to shew that he has been deputed by the Inhabitants of the Kaskaskie and Illenois settlements to represent to Congress the great inconvenience to which they are subject from the want of order and good government. And as it is expedient that the most early Steps should be taken to relieve the said Inhabitants from the difficulties which have arisen from the unsettled state of their Affairs, until more effectual arrangements can be made for extending to them a more regular establishment of security and good order, Resolved That one or more Commissioners be appointed to repair to the Kaskaskie and Illenois Settlements; That he be charged to use his best endeavours to suppress those dis- orders and irregularities of which the said Inhabitants complain. And that in the exercise of his Authority and the administration of justice he pursue the mode which he may judge the best calculated to quiet the Minds of those peop[l]e and secure their attachment to the fcederal gov- ernment. That he be required to adjust and settle all Accounts of the said Inhabitants against the United States, taking care to have proper documents produced in support of their respective claims; — and that, he be invested with all the powers and Authorities of the other Commis- sioners for settleing the accts ol the several states, against the United States under the resolution of Congress of 22. febry 1782. And the more effectually to preserve peace and good order, Resolved that Men out of those to be raised for guarrisoning our Western frontiers be sta- tioned in the said district. Resolved that he be allowed [blank] dollars as a compensation for his trouble and expences. [Endorsed:] No. 1. Report Mr Hardy Mr Pinckney Mr Benson Mr Williamson Mr Howell
Page 371
REPORT OF COMMITTEE, MARCH 14, 1785 371 On Memorial Mr Carboneaux respectg. settlers on Illinois De- livered Feby. 15. 1785 Entd. Read. Feby 21 Referred to Mr R R Livingston Mr McHenry Mr Howell Mr Read Mr Monroe Passed Congress.1 Report of Committee of Congress on Powers of Commissioners to be Appointed, March 14, 1785. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xxx., 483.— A. D. S.] The Com: to whom were refd. the petition of the Inhabitants of the Kaskaskies and its vicinity and the papers relative thereto Report. That the Comrs. to be appointed by Congress agréable to their resolu- tion of the of Feby last, be invested with full power to Examine into the titles and possessions of those inhabitants of the country whose rights were designed to be saved by the treaty entered into with them by Genl. Clarke. To judge of them upon the best evidence which he can collect, and to be governed therein by the laws and customs which have heretofore prevailed among them. Always inclining to support antient possessions against recent claims. That he cause to be surveyed every tract of land so claimed or pos- sessed, a record of which survey shall be kept in the office of the clerk or register to be appointed for that purpose, which shall be satisfactory evidence of title, unless an appeal is lodged within four months from the time of making such record; in which case such appeal shall be tried by Courts to be instituted on the future organization of the govern- ment of that country. That he adjust interferring claims among the settlers, subsequent to the date of the aforesaid capitulation, in such mode as he conceives most equitable; that he assign Lands as well to those as to others who shall migrate thither; provided that no Lands be assigned to any other than to settlers, and not more than [blank] acres to each family; and that the persons occupying such Lands, agree to pay therefor such 1 Written on margin. Although this resolution passed, it was not executed. See post, p. 309; also see p. 413; Journals 0/ Congress, iv., 473, 477.
Page 372
372 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS consideration as Congress may direct, when the federal land office shall be opened in such state — That he mark out convenient districts, and summon the inhabitants of each to elect three or more magistrates, who shall be invested with power and authority to hear and determine all civil Controversies not relative to the property in lands, agreeably to the laws, usages and customs that prevail in such districts. That the Commissioner with not less than three of the said magistrates, the whole being summoned and having a right to attend, be a court of criminal jurisdiction; provided that the punishment to be adjudged by the said Court, shall in no case extend to the loss of life, limb or member, except where such punishment might legally have been inflicted by the laws that heretofore prevaild in the late Colony and now State of Virginia; and provided also, that at least three fourths of the magistrates and the said Commissioner concur in the sentence. That the Commissioners with the advice and consent of the above magistrates, appoint executive officers in the respective districts to carry their decrees into execution. That he explain to the inhabitants of the said district, in such resolutions and proceedings of the United States in Congress, as respect the same, and endeavour to form their habit for the reception of a free republican government. That he preserve peace with the Indian nations, not permitting any settlement upon their Lands, untill a previous purchase has been made from them with all due solemnity. That he arrange, officer, and command the militia of the district, taking such posts as may be necessary for their protection and security. That he make early and accurate returns to Congress, of the nature, advantages and disadvantages of the Country, the number of its inhab- itants, their military force, their customs and their dispositions with respect to the United States — their wealth, agriculture and Com- merce — That he extend his inquiries to the settlements in his vicinity on the western side of the Missisipi,— and make returns to Congress of the result thereof, relative to all the objects above mentioned. That previous to his entering upon Office, he take and subscribe an oath of fidelity to the United States and for the true and faithful dis- charge of the above powers, before the commanding Officer at fort Pitt, who is empowered to administer the same, and directed to transmit a copy thereof to the Secretary of Congress.
Page 373
CRUZAT TO DE MONBREUN, SEPTEMBER 8, 1785 373 That he continue in office three years unless sooner discharged by Congress That a Secretary who shall act as register of the said district be appointed by Congress to attend the said Commissioner and discharge the duties above assigned to the register. That he continue in Office three years unless sooner recalled by Congress. That the yearly Salary of the said Commissioner be [blank] dollars including his expences — That the yearly Salary of the Secretary including his expences be [blank] dollars That the Secretary in the war office furnish the said Commissioner with 25 Men out of those already inlisted and that the Comr. endeavour to engage them to reenlist for the term of two years — [Endorsed:] No. 2. Report of Mr R R Livingston Mr McHenry Mr Howell Mr Read Mr Monroe On powers of Com. to be sent to Kaskaskies.1 Entd. read 14 March 1785 Thursday March assigned for Cong Francisco Cruzat to Timothé de Monbreun, September 8,1785. [Va. State Library.— Copy.7] Monsieur, L'intérêt que je prends à la vantage général de tout le pays des Illinois, me fait [MS. illegible] toutes les précaussions possibles, pour éviter autant qu'il dépendra de moi, qu'a l'avenir nos Commerçens voyageurs ne reçoivent aucune insulte, ou contrecoup malheureux par [Translation.] Sir: The interest I have in the general welfare of all the country of the Illinois, causes me [to take] all possible precautions to avoid, as far as it depends on me, that in the future, our traveling merchants receive in- sults or unlucky attacks from the rebels and pirates who infest the Missis1 This report did not result in sending a commissioner. 3 This copy was included in De Monbreun's memorial, ante, p. 35s.
Page 374
374 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS les rebels, et Pirates qui infectent le mississippi comme cela est arrivé ci devant, faute de dessendre, ou de monter en convoy, en consequence j'espère que vous voudrez bien faire publier sur votre Partie L'avis ci joint que je donne au Public, a fin que les sujets ameriquaines de votre rive, puissent profiter pour dessendre avec Surete ce fleuve, de la même avantage d'être Scoltés, dont jouissent ceux de mon gouvernment j'ai l'honneur d'être avec toute consideration monsieur Votre très humble et très obeiss* serv. Franco Cruzat a St. Louis des Illinois ce 8 Septembre 1785 A monsieur de monbreun [Translation.] sippi as has happened heretofore, because they did not go down or come up with a convoy. Therefore I hope you will consent to publish on your side of the river the enclosed notice which I am making public, in order that the American subjects of your bank may take advantage of the opportunity to go down the river under protection and escort in the same manner as those under my government. I have the honor to be with all consideration, Sir, your very humble and very obedient servant, Franco Cruzat. At St. Louis of the Illinois, September 8, 1785. To M. de Monbreun. TiMOTHÉ de Monbreun to the Governor at New Orleans, October 12, 1785. [Va. State Library.— Attested Translation.1] Letter of Timothy de Monbreun to the Governor of New Or- leans, Oct. 12, 1785. To His Excellency the Governor of New Orleans, Sir, The good Understanding and Harmony that prevailed till now be- twixt both Sides of the River of Illinois having been interrupted by Mr Cruzat The Commander of St Louis it is a Duty incumbent on me as 1 Enclosed in Memorial of De Monbreun, ante, p. 355. The translation was made by Stephen du Ponceau, notary public in Philadelphia, November 13,179a.
Page 375
DODGE TO CLARK, OCTOBER 18, 1785 375 Governor for the United States my Masters to present you my just Representations on Account of both Those Desertors of The garrison of The above named Gentleman who repaired to This Side of The River belonging to The United States as The aforesaid Commander, in contempt of the Laws as well as The Harmony subsisting between both governments had both The said Desertors seized on The Territory of The United States, where They ought to have been in perfect Security as in an inviolable Asylum. I must observe what Mr Cruzat ought not to have been ignorant of, That every Sovereign Thinks it his Duty to grant his Protection to all Desertors even to many other Subjects who have deserved Punishment in Their own Country, it being an Attribute of Their Power & Sovereignty, which They are extremely jealous of, and he neglects nay I Dare Say insults The mutual Harmony who attempts to violate that Protection which They grant in Their Dominions to Those who come There to seek an Asylum. Pursuaded that you are better acquainted Than myself with The Consequences of such Procedures I thought it incumbent upon me to lay my just com- plaints before you, claiming at The same time Those same Desertors, That I may not incur any Reprehension from The United States my Masters and That The good Understanding may be continued which has subsisted between both sides of The River till the present Period. I have the honor to be with Respect etc Sir TlMOTHÉ DE MONTBREUN at Caskasia The 12 Octbre 1785 John Dodge to William Clark, October 18, 1785. [Draper MSS., 1M126-127 — A. L. S.] Kaskaskias 18 October 1785 Dear Sir, This makes Several Letters wrote you without the Pleasure of any of Yours which made me think that You had left the Contry But By Chance heard that You was Still on the Land of the Liveing allthough have noth- ing Protickeler to trouble You with. I Dare Say that You have heard of the Greate fresh all the Hole Contry Drowned No. of Houses Carried into the Missispia and to Compleat the misery of the Inhabitants has Ben a Greate Drouth So that what was not Kild with water — is with fire None But My Self who has Setled on the opesite Side of the River & have
Page 376
376 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS one of the finest Seats in the Contry and more wheat than the Hole Beside. I hear that you have Mr Geroults affairs in your Hands and as I have Considerable Demands against him as well as Perault would take it as a Protickeler favour if You would Let Me Know wheather it will Be Possible for me to Recover any thing from them in that Quarter Pray Let me Know. if thare is anything that I can Serve you in have only to Command me Pray Let me Know if Mr Carney is in that Quarter or whare the Littile Heron is. I am yours to Serve John Dodge. [Addressed:] Mr Wm Clark1 By Mr Biggs Falls Ohio John Edgar to George R. Clark, November 7, 1785. [C. C. Pp., Indian Affairs, lvi., 287.] No. I. Dear General, I have wrote you maney letters since in the Illonies Country but never have had the pleasure of one from You as Nothing would give me more pleasure then a few lines from your on hand as Should Expect the News of the Callines as you have been so late[e]ly there. there is Now News in our Country only the Commandant of St Louis is afeard of An Attack from the Roilests at Michomuknea as he has given orders for all the people in that place to be in Redness when called on with their Armes, the Indians is Very trublesom on the Rivers and declares an Open Wore with the Americans, which I am Sure Is nothing Lesont [Pleasant] by the Advies of our Nebours the french in this place and the people from Michalmicknia which Openly Says the will Aposs All the Americans that comes in to this Country for my post it is impossoble to live here if we have not ragluer Justice very Soon the are worse then the Indians and ought to be ruled by a rod of Iron, Mrs Edgar Sends her Kind Complements to General Clark and rests Sir your Sinc[e]re friend Kaskaskies 7th. Novr. 85. Jno Edgar3 George Rogers Clark Esqr. 1 The cousin, not the brother, of George R. Clark. He was a member of the Illinois regiment and remained in military service until 1784. He then became, commissioner for the Illinois grant, secretary of the board, and principal surveyor until his death in 1791. Thwaites, R. G., Descriptive List 0} Manuseript Collections of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin, 15. 1 John Edgar came to Kaskaskia in 1784 and from that time became prominent in all undertakings. His sympathies seem, on the whole, to have been for the French in spite of the severe judgment above. See post, p. 409. For a life of Edgar, see Transactions of HI. Hist. Society, 1907, p. 64.
Page 377
CRUZAT TO CREILLEY AND DUPUIS, FEBRUARY i8, 1786 377 The aforegoing letter was received at the Miami and ordered to be entered. forwared by Sir Yr. mo. Obedt. Servt. E. J. Donne [Endorsed:] From Mr. Edgar at Kaskaskies to General Clark Public mentioning the state of afiairs in the district of Kaskaskies etca No. 1. enclosed in the report of the commissrs. of 19. June 1786 [Addressed:] George Rogers Clark Esquire Falls Ohio. Francisco Cruzat to John Baptiste Creilley and Joseph Dupuis, February 18, 1786. [K. MSS.— A. L. S.] St. Louis le 18 Février 1786 MM Jn Bapte Crely et Joseph Dupuis aux Kaskaskias Messieurs, Quelque bonne Envie que j'aie d'entretenir une bonne harmonie entre Votre rive et cette-cy et de rendre toute la Justice possible a ceux qui reclament; Je ne puix néanmoins annuller, comme Vous le désires, la Vente que Mr NM Lachanse a fait a M. Parent ou Bolduc d'un Nègre que Vous dittes Vous appartenir tant parceque Le dit Sieur Lachanse m'a présente des pièces qui l'autorisent a cela que parcequ'il a Sur Votre Partie des biens Suffisants pour y repondre et que Vous avés tou- [Translation.] St. Louis. February 18, 1786. MM. Jean Baptiste Creilley and Joseph Dupuis, at Kaskaskia. Gentlemen: However great the wish I may have to maintain harmony between your bank and this one and to render ail justice possible to those who ask for it; still I am not able to annul, as you désire, the sale which M. N^ Lachanse made to M. Parent or Bolduc of a negro whom you say belongs to you, not only because the said M. Lachanse has shown me documents which authorize him in this but also because he has in your section suffi- dent possessions to answer thereto, and because you have always means of redress against him. When your court of justice is re-established you
Page 378
378 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS jours Votre recours Sur lui; une fois Votre justice rétabli Vous pourrés reclamer conformément aux Prétentions que Vous pouvés avoir. Je Suis très Parfaitement Messieurs Votre très humble et obt. Servit1, Franco Cruzat Enrigistré au greffe au folio 12 en kaskaskias ce 2e may 1788. P Langlois greffier de Comté délivré Copie a Mr. Edgar le 3e may 1788. P Langlois greffier de Comté [Written on back:] Le Sieur Lachance Est arive le 19 Et il a fait remetre Latiref?] du Le Sr Dupuis par Mr Janis Le 22 fevrié; Le Sr janis La remis a Mr Lang- lois disant que Mr Lanche [sic] luy avez donné pour La remettre a Lang- lois, et la fair tenire a Mr dupuis. 1786 [Addressed:] A Messieurs Jn Bte Crely et Jh Dupuis [Translation.] will be able to make your claim according to the prétention you may have. I am, very respectfully, gentlemen, Your very humble and very obedient servant, Franco Cruzat. Registered at the Clerk's Office at Kaskaskia, folio 12. May 2, 1788. P. Langlois, Clerk of the County. Delivered copy to M. Edgar the third of May, 1788. P. Langlois, Clerk of the County. [Written on bock:] M. Lachanse arrived the nineteenth and caused to be delivered the letter from M. Dupuis, by M. Janis, the 22d of February. M. Janis gave it to M. Langlois, saying that M. Lachanse had given it to him to give to Langlois, and to have it held for M. Dupuis. [Addressed!] To M. Jean Bte. Creilley and Joseph Dupuis.
Page 379
CHOUTEAU TO BAUGY, MARCH 12, 1786 379 Auguste Chouteau to M. Baugy, March 12, 1786. [K. MSS.— A. L. S.] St Louis 12 Mars 1786 A Mr Bougie aux Caskaquias Monsieur Et Ami, n'ayant pu recevoir au poste aucune pelleterie, et désirant descendre tout de Suitte je ne Vouderais pas attendre les paquets du missouri. C'est pourquoi Si Vous, et les Parens des mineurs plassie Veullent me donner a intérêt les paquets qui Sont entre Vos mains a rendre en nature dans L'endroit ou ils Sont je m'oblige de payer Dix Pour Cent par An en même Espèce, il m'est pas possible que je m'oblige a donner des piastres Car il pourrais Se faire qu'il n'y en aurai pas de Si tôt dans la Colonie. il n'y aurait rien d'Extraordinaire Vu l'étate actuel de Largent que Vous Pussiez dans le Cas de les vendre en ville que de 20 a 26 Sols En piastre gourde. Vous avez vu Vous même L'année dernière Ce dont il est Cas. et Si il en est de même cette année ici je tiens que outre Les Risques de Lamonté et de la descente que cela Sera une perte réel pour ces mineurs, ne Croyais pas que cela Sois L'envis que j'ai de ces paquets [Translation.] St. Louis, March 12, 1786. To M. Baugy, at Kaskaskia. Sir and Friend: Since I have not been able to collect any peltries at the Post and am desirous to go down at once, I do not want to wait for the bundles from Missouri. Therefore, if you and the relatives of the minors Plasy wish to give me at interest the bundles which are in your hands, to be deliv- ered as they are and in the place they are, I agrée to pay ten per cent annually in the same species. It is not possible for me to agrée to pay piastres, for it may happen that there will not be any as soon as that in the colony. It would be nothing extraordinary, considering the présent state of money, for you to [obtain], in case you sold them in town, only from 20 to 16 sols in a piastre gourde. You have yourself seen, last year, what the case was; and if it is the same this year, I maintain that aside from the risks of going up and down, that will be a real loss for the minors. Do not believe that it is my désire to have the bundles which makes me
Page 380
380 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS qui me le fais dire ceci Vous en pouvez juger Comme moi les choses Vous étant aussi Connus. par la première occassion faites moi je Vous prie réponse du oui, ou de non. Si ils acceptent je me metterais en route dans le momant même, Si ils ne le veullent pas, j'attenderais un Cayeux du village des Missouris qui ne doit tardé a paraitre. arrengez toujours Vos affaires, et tachez de m'engager 4 Bons hom- mes encore. Mes Respects a Madame Votre Epouse a qui je Souhaite une Bonne Santé ainsi qu'a toute Votre petite famille. j'ai L'honneur d'Etre avec Considération Monsieur Votre très humble et très obéissant Serviteur Aug Chouteau [Addressed:] A Monsieur Bogie hab* aux Caskaskias [Translation.] say this. You can judge affairs as well as I, since they are also known to you.1 I pray you will answer by the first opportunity, yes or no. If they accept, I should set out immediately. If they are unwilling, I should await a boat from the village of the Missouris, which should corne soon. Settle your affairs and try to engage for me four more good men. My respects to your wife, for whom I wish good health as well as for ail your little family. I have the honor to be, with considération, sir, Your very humble and obedient servant. Aug. Chouteau. A ddressed:] To M. Baugy, inhabitant at Kaskaskia. 1 The meaning of the whole paragraph is very difficult to make out. Thfc is évident, however. Chouteau maintains that an assured ten per cent paid in peltries at Kaskaskia will be a better bar- ?:ain for the heire than to risk the dangers of the journey to New Orléans and the chance of selling or cash there.
Page 381
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS, JUNE 2, 1786 381 Mémorial of the French Faction to Congress, June 2, 1786. [C. C. Pp., HI., Kaskaskia, and Ky., xli., 113.—Attested Copy.] Je sertifie le présente Extrait est Conforme a L'enregistrement remie à Mr Joseph Parker, que nous Esperont qu'il Vous remettera aux Kas- KasKias le 29. May. 1786. Enregistré folio, 4. PRE Langlois Notaire et Greffier KasKasKias Comté des Illinois ce deuxième jour du mois de juin. L'an de grâce Mil sept cent quatre vingt six. Nous Les soussignées pri Le Congrées de prendre atention du pays des illinois a Etablire Le Gouvernement immediattement pour La pro- tection et defence des habitants de leurs propeté nous Considérants La fertilité de la Contrée, d'une grande avantage dérivé pour Le Commerce grand émigration pour Lavantage de la Contrée. Nous panson que ce nest pas une petit objet pour Le Congrès. Cest pourquoy nous prions pour un sisteme de gouvernement nous protéger et apuier nos personnes Et soutenir nôtres Droiture pas toutafait pour Les sauvages — plutôt [Translation.] I certify that the présent extract agrées with that which was registered and sent to M. Joseph Parker,1 which we hope he will send to you. At Kaskaskia, May 29, 1786. Registered in folio 4. Pierre Langlois, Notary and clerk. Kaskaskia, County of the Illinois, this second day of June, of the year of our Lord, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six. We, the undersigned, pray Congress to take notice of the country of the Illinois and to establish immediately the government for the protec- tion and defence of the inhabitants and their property; for we believe [that] the fertility of the land and the great advantage to be derived by commerce [will attract] a great immigration to the advantage of the country. We think that this is not a small object for Congress. It is for this reason that we pray for a System of government to protect us, to strengthen our hands, and to maintain our rights, not only against the 1 Sec post, p. 410.
Page 382
382 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS pour Michilimakina, et une Compagnies de sujet de la grand Bretagne qui ce sons Emparer du Commerce des bons sujet des Etats, dont ils-onts Etablie une traite au Kahôkias un village prés de nous qui causes un tors grand et prejudice, au bons Sujets des Etats — Et ils ont détruit Letablissement de loi que Les habitant avoit fait Entreux. Nous souffront une grande perde pour Le recouvrement de nos juste depts Cest pourquoy nous prions le Congrès encore une foy de point nous enbandoné plus Longtems, de nous anvoyé et nous octroye Les loix sans délais; (Et Les sujet de la grande Bretagne nous menace de nous prendre sous Leurs Loix.) — ausy quelque gens soutenant Les Sujet de la grande Bretagne, ce sont Eriger En Commandant jusquau point de prendre des sujet des Etats, Et Les transporte sure La rive Espagnol, et Les onts fait Enprisonné, au Mépris de Letablissement du gouvernement des Etats, qui sont Les Sieurs nicolas lachanse et john dodge. qui ce sont Eriger En Commandant. PRE Langlois Notaire Et greffiere [Translation.] Indians but rather against Michillimakinac and a company of the sub- jects of Great Britain who are getting possession of the commerce from the good subjects of the states. They have established at Cahokia, a village near us, a trading post which causes great harm and detriment to the good subjects of the states.1 They have destroyed the establishment of the law which the inhabitants had made among themselves.2 We suffer a great loss in the recovery of our just debts. We, therefore, again pray Congress not to abandon us any longer; but to send and grant us laws without delay, for the subjects of Great Britain threaten to take us under their laws. Likewise a few persons upholding the subjects of Great Britain have installed themselves as commanders to such a point as to take subjects of the states and trans- port them to the Spanish shore and have them imprisoned, to the disgrace of the establishment of the government of the states. The men who have assumed command are MM. Nicolas Lachanse and John Dodge. Pierre Langlois, Notary and clerk. 1 See action of the Court of Cahokb conceming this, III. Hisl. Collections, u, 577. 2 This probably refera to the agreement among the inhabitants not to trade in liquor with the Indians, made in 1776.
Page 383
CERRE'S TESTIMONY, JULY, 1786 383 [Endorsed:] No. 10. Petition in french Inhabitants of Kaskaskies Read Augt 23d 1786 Referred to Mr Monroe Mr Johnson Mr King Mr Pinckney Mr Smith Translation enclosed Gabriel Cerré's Testimony Concerning Illinois, Given Before Congress, July, 1786.1 [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia & Ky., xlviii., 49.—Translation.] Mr. Cerré will answer the following inquiries: 1. Were the people of the Illinois heretofore governed by the laws of Canada, or by usages and customs of their own, or partly by one and partly by the other? 2. By what tribunals or judges was criminal or civil justice hereto- fore administered in that district? 3. By what laws or usages and by what judges is criminal and civil justice dispensed at this time? 4. In what mode and in what quantities were grants of land hereto- fore made to individual settlers? 5. To what extent is the whole district appropriated by grants? 6. To what extent is the tract or tracts granted to the settlers in com- mon for religious or other uses? 7. What is the computed number of inhabitants in the whole Illinois district, and what proportion of them were slaves? [Endorsed:] Queries put to Mr. Cerré with his answers relative to the settlers in the Illinois. Answers — to Query 1st. The people of the Illinois were governed before the Conquest of Canada by the same laws as the people of Canada which were of the same nature with those of old France, adapted to the particular circum- stances of the country — They had local customs which were equally binding as the laws — After the conquest the British Commandants 1 This document was published by Hon. Walter B. Douglas in Missouri Hist. Society's Collations, April, 1903, and reprinted in Transactions of 111. State Hist. Society, 1903, p. 375.

Page 384
3S4 ILLINOIS HISTORIC-XL COLLECTION'S were Civil Judges who ' governed by the same laws and customs as the people lived under before the conquest of Canada — All public trans- actions and records being recorded in French by Notaries public — Orders issued in English were translated into French for the information of the country. — Criminal cases were referred to England. 2d. In civil cases Before the conquest of Canada there was an Attorney General (Procureur du Roi) who gave sentence in all cases that were brought before him by his own personal de[c]ision in trifling matters but in cases of importance it was customary for each party to name two arbitrators the Attorney Genl. a fifth and he ratified their sen- tence — An appeal might be made to New Orleans where there was a superior Judicature — called (counseil supérieur), all criminal cases were referred to and decided by this counseil supérieur at N. Orleans.— Dur- ing the British government — The Commandants administered Justice as in the first Article.1 3d. In 1779 — When Col. Todd went into that country the people chose six magistrates to govern them according to the old French laws and customs which Magistrates were empowered by Col Todd to Judge in criminal cases. After the troops were withdrawn the power of the Magistrates was annihilated and everything fell into Anarchy and confu- sion — the State of affairs at this time. 4th Before the conquest of Canada the French Commandants had the power to make grants and did grant to every person who petitioned as much land as the petitioner chose to ask for on condition of cultivating part of the same within a year — The English followed the same mode.3 If the land was not cultivated as above it returned to the Kings demesnes. 5. This question is very difficult and not in Mr. Cerré power to answer — but great quantities have been granted. 6 A Large quantity of land was reserved in the neighbourhood of 1 The following words were striken out: "ruled as they pretended according to the British laws and Constitution but in fact were very arbitrary. Criminal cases were referred to England." 3 Cerré shows a surprising ignorance of the administration of the law in Illinois during the French and British periods, considering that he had lived in Kaskaskia since 1755. From December, 1768, to ,) 11 ne, 1770, there was a bench ofjudges who administered English law. The rest of the time the admin- istration of justice was disorganized, but during the last years of the British period the commandant referred disputes to arbitrators (Carter t> C. E., Illinois under the British Kepime, Justin Winsor Prize, 1909, soon to be published). His information concerning the French period is still more com plctcly wrong. There was in the district of Illinois a regular civil and criminal judge as in every French district. Appeals might be made to the superior council at New Orleans. The system of arbitration was frequently used as in every French court of the period. The duties of the "attorney general" were such as the title of the office implies. Alvord, "III. in the Eighteenth Century," Bulletin of the III. State Hist. Library, I., No. 1. • But illegally. Lieutenant-Colonel John Wilkins was the chief offender. His successors 1 Careful to obey the terms of the Proclamation of 1763.
Page 385
MORIN TO DE MONBREUN, JULY 15, 1786 385 the towns for commons, a very small proportion for religious men and none for other purposes. 7. There may be in the Towns on the Mississippi about 300 White Inhabitants including American Settlers who may amount to 50.1 There are moreover about 250 Slaves, so that according to Mr Cerré the population of that part of the Illinois amounts to 550. or 600 souls but he does not appear to be well acquainted with these numbers. The foregoing are Mr. Cerrés answers to the Questions from the Com- mittee of Congress referred for translation to John Pintard. A. Morin to TiMOTHÉ de Monbreun, July 15, 1786. [K. MSS.,—A. D. S.] A Monsieur Thimoté demonbrun Ecuyer Lieutenant Gouverneur Et commandant aux KasKasKias, Partie Illinois &c &c &c Monsieur, Le Soussigné a L'honneur de Vous Exposer qu'ayant fait des avances a Monsieur Le Major LeBrun de Belcour, Par le Compte qu'il a L'hon- neur de vous Exiber, Et comme il a laissé des Effets entre Les Mains du sieur Pierre Langlois Notaire Public de la Conté il vous Suplie dordonner que Le d'Compte Luy Soit acquité par La succession de feu Monsieur [Translation.] July 15, 1786. To M. Timothé de Monbreun, Esquire, Lieutenant-Governor and Commandant at Kaskaskia, Illinois Region, etc., etc. Sir: The undersigned has the honor to make known to you that he made advances to Major LeBrun dil Belcour,2 according to the account which he has the honor to present to you; and as he (LeBrun) left some goods in the hands of M. Pierre Langlois, notary public of the county, he, the undersigned, begs you to order that the aforesaid account be paid to him by the heirs of the late M. LeBrun dit Belcour. The suppliant 1 See census printed post, pp. 414, and vol. ii., 624. * 2 Lebrun was the messenger to Congress, sent by the people of Cahokia and Kaskaskia in 1784. He was killed on his way east. See III. Hist. ColUctions, ii., exxix; and post, p. 425.

This page contains an image.
Page 386
386 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS LeBrun de Belcour Le supliant offre dasermenter son dl Compte Par- devant Vous, Monsieur, Et feray Droit. A Morin KasKasKias Le 15 Guillet 1786. Vu la requette Cy desus y'1 Ets ordonne aux representan du sieur LeBrun de BelleCour De prandre deus arebitre Et Le dis sieur Entoine morin, en choisesire Deu pour Dessider Et donner Le Droit asquillas- parGuindra [i.e. à qu'il appartiendra] Corne Le sieur Le Brun Ets defun Sais tanquoy'que nous sordonon La dessision De cette demande sy par Cas quille soit nesesere dun surareBuitre les Dis sarBuitre le choiss- iront. Donne aux Caskaskia le 15 juilet 1786.' Thimoté Demonbreun L. C. D. [?] [Translation.] offers to swear to his said account before you, sir; and you will do justice. A. Morin. Kaskaskia, July 15, 1786. In view of the above pétition, it is ordered that the représentatives of M. LeBrun dit Belcour take two arbiters and the said M. Antoine Morin shall choose two in order to décide and to give justice to whom it may belong. Because M. LeBrun is deceased is the reason that we order the décision on this claim. If there is need of a fifth arbiter the aforesaid arbiters will choose him. Given at Kaskaskia, July 15, 1786. Thimoté De Monbreun, L. C. D. Procès Verbal, August 2, 1786. [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] L'an mil Sept Cent quatrevingt et six. Et le deuxième jour du mois D'aoust aux Environs des six heures Du matin a La requisisions du sr. [Translation.] In the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six, on the second day of the month of August, about six o'clock in the morning, at the 1 The French of this decree is the most illiterate and was the most difficult to decipher of any in the volume. The editor certifies to the correctness of the transcript.
Page 387
PROCES VERBAL, AUGUST 2, 1786 387 jean baptist montuvreuille Voison du dit sieur Jacque felix theodore Carton, Lequelle more requis De me transporte à la Maison dudit siur Jacque felix teodore Carton, que le dit siur Louis Gervais chamberlang ore averty qu'il oré atendu tiré dans La [MS. (ont] . . demeure Jacques felix teodore Carton sourdemande un Coude fusil, ou pistolet, Les quelles denémé auroit ouver une fenêtre du Cotte Du sus pour y voir ce que c'ettoit Le dit Sieur montuvreuille Et ledit Germain [Ger- vais] oré ouvrer La fenêtre du nor tous deux auré Vu Ledit Siur Carton tombe En bas dans sa maison une boucanne De poudre a feu qui rem- plisse La chambre Et Le dit Carton mort Le Coup d'un pistolet deux pistole a Cotté de luy un chaque Cotte, Dont il ny a un décharge, Et Lautre non charge Et Le Coup de pistol dans le sain Goche, son Capau Servant d'abis perse dudit et brullé, ledit Jacque felix teodore Carton Etant mort sure Le planché a Cotté de son lit. Et Le dit Sieur montu- reuille deClaré que Catnerine son esclave négresse Etoit au Coing de la maison Et auroit dit mon maître a tiré dans la maison. Et Ledit ger- main deClaré que Ladite négresse etoit au Bout de la maison et a [Translation.] réquisition of M. Jean Baptiste Montureuille, a neighbor of the said M. Jacques Felix Theodore Carton, I was required to betake myself to the house of the said Jacques Felix Theodore Carton, for M. Louis Gervais Chamberlin had informed the said Montureuille that he had heard a shot in the house where Jacques Felix Theodore Carton lived, a muffled shot as of a gun or a pistol. Thèse two men, MM. Montu- reuille and Gervais,1 had opened a window on the south side to see what had happened; and they opened the window on the north and both of them saw the said M. Carton fallen on the floor of his house and the room filled with powder smoke. The said Carton was dead from a pistol-shot, two pistols were beside him, one on each side, one of which was not discharged and the other was not loaded. The pistol shot was in his left breast and his capot serving as a shield was pierced and burned. And the said Jacques Felix Theodore Carton was dead on the floor by the side of his bed. The said M. Montureuille declared that Catherine, the negro slave of Carton, was at the corner of the house and had said: "My master has fired in the house." And the said Gervais declared that the negress was at the end of the house calling him and saying The derk has evidently written Germain for Gervais several times.
Page 388
388 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Lapelant disant [MS. lorn] tiré dans La maison Les fenêtre etoit ferme Les porte de la maison ferme, une porte d'une apenty ouverte, trouvant Sure La table un petit Basin de thé et un put dan quoi lui aves du sucre Et Les dits Siurs deClarant déclare que La négresse auroit Eté avertire Monsieur pierre huit de Lavaliniere Curé de la paroisse de Limmaculée Conception de notre dame de la ville des KasKasKias pays des illinois, Lequelle siur de Lavaliniere curé auré ariver Etrouve Le dit Siur Carton qui soupire Lequel curé Loré Ex Exorté a la mort, Et En présence des Siurs nicolas janis Capitaine de milise, Et mathurin Bouvet Et rené soumande Et antoine morin, et John Edgar Et Biaise Barutel Lesquelles ont signies avec Le dit notaire soussigné a la reserve des sieurs jean baptis montureuille et louis Gervais qui ont dit ne le savoire de ce Enquis Lecture fait, témoins présent sa janis At [morin] j Bte + Montureuille Bouvet marque [Translation.] that her master had fired in the house. The Windows were closed and the doors of the house were closed. A door of a pantry[ ?] was open and they found on the table a little pot of tea and a pot in which there was some sugar. And the déponents déclare that the negress had been to inform M. Pierre Huet de la Valinière, the priest of the parish of the Immaculate Conception of our Lady of the village of Kaskaskia, country of the Illinois, and that M. de la Valinière arrived and found the said M. Carton still breathing and that the priest exhorted him at his death. And in the présence of MM. Nicolas Janis, captain of the militia, Mathurin Bouvet, René Soumande, Antoine Morin, John Edgar, and Biaise Barutel, they have signed with the undersigned notary, with the exception of MM. Jean Baptise Montureuille and Louis Gervais, who said that they did not know how. The minutes of this investiga- tion were read. Witness présent. His Janis. Ant. [Morin] J. Baptiste + Montureuille. Bouvet. mark \
Page 389
PROCES VERBAL, AUGUST 2, 1786 380 J Edgar sa Barutel Louis + gervais rené soumande marque Pre Langlois Notaire Copie livré a Mr Beauvais [Endorsed:] 1786. Proces verbal du Corp de jacque felix theodore Carton, ce 2me aoust. Copie livré [ Translation..] J. Edgar. His Barutel. Logis + Gervais. Rene Soumande. mark Pierre Langlois, Notary. Copy delivered to M. Bauvais. [Endorsed:] Procès verbal of the death of Jacques Felix Theodore Carton, this August second. Copy delivered.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 390
CHAPTER XI THE FRENCH ASSERT THEMSELVES, AUGUST 14, 1786, TO AUGUST, 1787 De Monbreun Appoints Barbau County-Lieutenant — A Resolution of Congress — Bouvet Acts as Judge — Alder and Edgar Write to Clark — News from Congress — Madame Bentley — The Re- vival of the Court — Proposed Duties of Western Commissioner — The French Judges Protest Against American Judges — The Agreement — Census of the District of Kaskaskia. Timothé de Monbreun's Commission to Jean Bte. Barbau, August 14, 1786. [Va. State Library.— Attested Copy.] en vertu De lact de lassemble générale de la Virginie Donne a Mr tode étant au greffe chez Mr Langlois, remis pour tous ceux qui ont besoin pour quoy que jai Commission de Lieutenant depute et Comman- dant de la Conté des illinois Monsieur jean Bte. Barbau a moi lieu et place et Suivant tous pouvoirs espérant que vos seret en tranquileté Du district au Kaskaskia, Ce i4me aoust 1786.1 Signé Thimote de Monbreun Lieutenant de Conte [Translation.] By virtue of an act of the General Assembly of Virginia delivered to Mr. Todd, which is at the house of M. Langlois and which is directed to all whom it may concern, I have commissioned as Deputy Lieu- tenant and Commandant of the County of Illinois M. Jean Baptiste Barbau in my place and stead, to act with all the powers given me; and I hope that peace will be preserved in the district. Kaskaskia, August 14, 1786. (Signed) Timothé de Monbreun, County Lieutenant. _ > This commission was copied and attested at the same time and in the same way as the commission which Richard Winston gave to De Monbreun. See antt, p. 323, l. i. /"
Page 391
A PETITION, AUGUST 25, 1786 391 Resolution of Congress, August 23,1786. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia, and Ky., xxx., 491.] The Committee to whom was referr'd a petition from the inhabitants of Kaskaskias for the organization of a gov't, over the said district, submit the following report in part — Ordered that the Secy, of Congress inform the inhabitants of the said district that Congress have under their consideration the plan of a temporary govt, for said district and that its adoption will be no longer protracted than the importance of the subject and a due regard to their interest may require.1 [Endorsed:] Report of Mr Monroe No. 5. Mr Johnson Mr King Mr Pinckney Mr Smith On petition of Kaskaskias delivered 23 Aug 1786 Agreed to Petition to Mathurin Bouvet by Joseph Baugy as Guardian to the Minor Children Duplassy, August 25, 1786. [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] A Monsieur mathurin Bouvet Juge Civile Et Criminal De la ville Des KasKasKias pays des Illinois &c &c &c Monsieur, Joseph Bougi tuteur des mineurs Duplasy a l'honneur de vous Exposée quau Défaut de justice Etably En cette ville des KasKasKias [Translation.] To M. Mathurin Bouvet, Civil and Criminal Judge of the Village of Kaskaskia,* County of the Illinois, etc. etc. etc. Sir: Joseph Baugy, guardian of the minors Duplasy, has the honor to inform you that, in default of an established court of justice in this • This resolution is printed in Journals of Congress, iv., 688. It was the result of the memorial of the French faction, which was brought to Congress by Joseph Parker. See ante, p. 381. 'This heading is the principal reason for the insertion of this document. Bouvet was evidently an appointment of the party which forced De Monbreun from the office of county lieutenant. Among the petitions of the year the first addressed as above is dated July 18,1786, and the last is dated October 17, 1786. See III. Hist. Collations, ii., exxxii. /
Page 392
392 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS qu'il auroit fait faire plusieurs actes D'assemblées des parens et amis Desdits mineurs, pour délibéré Leurs biens sur ce quil oré peu donner Leurs S'avis. Comme un tuteur doit faire touchan Les biens des Min- eurs afin De ce mettre à Eviter toutes Contestations de la part des mineurs [MS. lorn] la loi dicte qu'un tuteur ne peut estre repris lors quil Sui Lavis des parens Et amis des mineurs, Et ayant fait statué Le pris des pelteris par une assemblée Come ayant Eté refusé par Les juge daministré Leurs charge dit sans ayant remis Leurs charge; Cest pour- quoy que Le suppliant vous suppli Monsieur de vouloir omologué Les actes des parens Et amis, afin deviter a lavenir toute Contestations Comme exersant ponctuel [MS. torn] charge de tuteur, tant pour L'in- terest des dits mineurs que pour prouver Lexaltitude de mon administra- tion, à suivre Ce quil ma Eté ordonné par Les dits avis des dits parens et amis, ce ses que espère celui qui à l'honneur D'estre Et vous feré Droit, asisté du subroge tuteur [Translation.] village of Kaskaskia, he has had made several certificates [of the déter- minations] of assemblies of the relatives and friends of the said minors [summoned] to deliberate concerning the possessions of the minors upon which he would be able to give them his advice, as a guardian ought to do when it concerns the possessions of minors, so as to be in a position to avoid ail sorts of litigations on the part of the minors, [for] the law says that a guardian cannot be held responsible when he follows the advice of the parents and the friends of the minors. And the said guardian has had the price of the peltries determined by an assembly, as the judges refused to administer their said office without having resigned their powers. It is for this reason that the suppliant begs of you, sir, to consent to confirm the acts of the relatives and friends, so as to avoid in the future ail litigations, since he has exercised punc- tually the duty of guardian; [and I beg you to do this] both for the interest of the minors and to prove the exactness of my administration in following what was ordered by the said relatives and friends. That is what is hoped by him who has the honor to be; and you shall do justice. Assisted by the surrogate guardian.1 1 The meaning of the French is very doubtful in a number of places. '-
Page 393
DUPUIS TO BOUVET, OCTOBER 17, 1786 393 sa josEPH + Bougi tuteur marque Aux KasKasKias Le 25e aoust 1786 Lonval Vu LEXposé En icelle il me sera Communiqué Les procès verbaux d'avis des parens Et amis des Mineurs duplacis afin d'y Enterriner Le nouv [MS. torn] Raison Est aux KasKasKias Ce 25 aoust 1786 M Bouvet JCC [Endorsed:] 1786. Requette de M. Joseph Baugi tuteur Des mineurs Duplasy ce 25 aoust [Translation.] his Joseph + Baugy, Guardian, mark Kaskaskia, August 25,1786. Lonval. In view of this exposition, an official report will be presented to me concerning the advice of the relatives and friend of the minors Duplasy so as to confirm the new [MS. torn] if there is cause. Kas- kaskia, August 25, 1786. M. Bouvet, J. C. C. [Endorsed:] 1786. Petition of M. Joseph Baugy, guardian of the minors Duplasy, this August 25. Joseph Dupuis to Mathurin Bouvet, 17 October, 1786. [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] A Monsieur mathurin Bouvet Juge Civile Et Criminal de la ville des KasKasKias. &c. &c. Monsieur, Joseph Dupuis, à l'honneur de vous exposée quil Est dans le sent- [Translation.] To M. Mathurin Bouvet, Judge of the Civil and Criminal Court of the Village of Kaskaskia, etc., etc. Sir: Joseph Dupuis has the honor to inform you that he has the inten-
Page 394
394 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS iment de sorty de cette ville, Enfin de pouvoir gagnier sa vie dans un autre Lieu, Et quil auroit Eté nomée tuteur Des mineurs de feu M. gabriel hobuchon, Cest pourquoy quil vous Suplie très humblement luy permetre de Convoque une assemblée de parens Et amis des dits mineurs, pour La nomination D'un tuteur, à son Lieu Et àfin de luy rendre Compt de sa gestion de tuteur afin de ce retirer sans que nul personne puis luy imputer de negligance Et Comme Les bien des dits mineurs reste En cette ville Et Le dit supliant netant pas En même d'y veillier Etant sorty de la ditte ville Cest La grase espère Celuy qui a l'honneur d'estre Et que vous En ordonneré Et Vous y feré droit, au KasKasKias le 17e &**' 1786. Sa Joseph + ûupuis marquée Viennent Les parens Et a défaut des amis des dits tuteurs au nombre Competant jeudy dixneuvieme jour du présent Mois aux fins de sub- stituer un tuteur au Lieu Et place du Supliant Mandons aux KasKasKias Ce 17 8bre 1786. M Bouvet. J. C. C. [Translation.] tion of leaving the village in order to earn his living in some other place, and that inasmuch as he was named guardian of the minors of the late M. Gabriel Aubuchon, for this reason, he prays you very humbly to permit him to convoke an assembly of the relatives and friends of the minors in order to proceed to the nomination of a guardian in his place and stead, in order to render an account of his administration as guar- dian so that he may go away and no one be able to charge him with négligence. And inasmuch as the possessions of the said minors remain in this village, and the said petitioner will not be in a position to look after the said possessions after he has left the said village, he hopes for this favor, and that you will so order and do justice. Kaskaskia, October 17, 1786. his Joseph + Dupuis. mark Let the relatives, and in default thereof, some of the friends of the said guardians assemble on the nineteenth of this month in order to substitute a guardian in the place of the petitioner. We so decree. At Kaskaskia, this seventeenth of October, 1786. M. Bouvet, J. C. C. / ^
Page 395
EDGAR TO CLARK, OCTOBER 23, 1786 395 James Alder to George R. Clark, October 22, 1786. [Draper MSS., 53 J54 — A. L. S.] Kaskaskia Oct1" 22d 1786 May it Please Your Excellency, To Accept a few Lines from me, as the only way, I have to Con- gratulate you, on your Arrival to the Post of S* Vincent. Shewing my Very heartfelt Joy, of your Aproach to this Post, And also of the Public Spirit of Madam Edgar, who gave Sentiment, wishing you and your Arms Sucess to your wishes. I Learn that the Milittia has Returned to the Falls for want of Provision which I am Sorry for, Especially when there is Plenty of flour here in this Place, it would be much Pleasure to me to hear from you And if I can be of Any use in Purchasing or Assisting to purchase, with Safety to [blank in MS.] it will afford me the Greatest Pleasure to be at your Command.1 I Am Your Most Obed* & Very Hume Servant James Alder [Addressed:] To His Excellancy Brigadier General Clark. Pr Mr McCoy. Post S* Vincent. John Edgar to George R. Clark, October 23, 1786.' [Draper MSS., 53 J55.— A. L. S.] Sir, I Rec*1 yours by Express of the Eighteenth Instant and Observe the Contents of your Letter and am very happy to find that you put Confidence in me. There is Nothing that I would not do to Serve General Clark, & my Country. And you may Depend on me that I will Execute your Order or any Other Orders, you may think proper to enfaire [sic] on me, to the last tittle that is in my power, the Inhabitants of these Villages is very much Disaffected to the United States, owing much to the Michla- macknac Company, which holds a large Trading House at Cahokia for the suply of the Savages. If any thing tourn up in the Illenois of 1 Clark was making an expedition against the Indians at this time. The consequence of this and the following letter was that a company was sent from Vincennes to obtain supplies. For an account of the result; see post, p. 426. * This letter is printed in Wis. Hist. Collections, xviii., 439.
Page 396
39° ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Consequence I shall Immediately give you Intellegance by Express. I am sir Your Most Obed* and Humble Serv* John Edgar Kaskaskia 2$d Ocf 1786 N. B. This Country is totaly lost if we have not Government established here Soon &c &c I was oblidg<1 to give S* Ange [a] horse as the one he brought give out. J. E. [Addressed:] George R. Clark EsQr Post Vincent. Jean Bte. Barbau to Pierre Langlois, January, 1787. [K. MSS.— A. L. S.] a la preri du [MS. torn] [JJanvier 1787 Mon cher Langlois, comme je nes p[A/S. torn] docaion je suis obliges de tann[MS. torn] un de mes nègre pour te remersier de la complesance que tus a hus de mescrire me disans quils Etes arives des papier du congres que Ion ma- tandes avec les abitant du vilage, la sirconstances du tans E mon indis- possicion dune incommoditer man pèche de me tranceporter oKas comme messieur les abitan pouves nous atandre pour an faire louverte comme cet une chosse asses interescante pour les sistoien je les pris dan faire la lecture comme sis nou i etion je teux prives de voulouar avoire la conplessance de me marque les nouvelle par un petis mot de [Translation.] At Prairie du [Rocher] [J]anuary, 1787 My dear Langlois: As I do not have the opportunity [of going myself], I am obliged to send you one of my negroes in order to thank you for your kindness in writing to tell me that there had arrived some papers from Congress and that the inhabitants of the village are expecting me. The circumstances of the time and my illness prevent me from going myself to Kaskaskia. As the inhabitants may be expecting us to open the papers and as it is a thing very interesting for the citizens, I ask them to have them read, as though I were there. I beg you to be kind enough to tell me the news
Page 397
A PLACARD, APRIL ax, 1787 397 lestre ce que jatan avec baucoup de plesire jespere que tus voudras bien avoire cette complesance cellui qui Es avec Estime ton serviteur Barbau [Translation.] in a short letter which I shall expect with much pleasure.1 I trust you will have that kindness. He who is with esteem your servant, Barbau. Placard Concerning Marguerite Bentley, April 21, 1787. [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] Advertisement Kaskaskias 21st April 1787. Whereas Margret Beauvais alias Mrs Bentley' has by her infamous Conduct and Whoredom dissipated & squander'd away great part of the Estate of Mr Thomas Bendey disseased & has forfited & lost all Right Tide Claim & Pretention to any part of said Estate except One dollar according to his express Will. — The said Estate is mortgaged for the full & Just Sum of Thirty Thousand Livres with Interest which Obligation is in my Possession.— I do hereby forwarn all & every Per- son or Persons whomsoever from harbouring concealing or detaining on any Pretence whatsoever a Certain Mallattoe Woman named Genvievé with four Children also a Negro Man named Pereault as well as any other part of said Estate on pain of suffering the Rigour of the Law except Daniel McElduff Esqr who I have authorized my attorney. I inform Madame Bentleys Scribbler or Clerk who takes it on him- self to dictate translate &c her infamous Lies & Untruths that he had better mind his own Business & have a little more Respect to the Cloth which some oversighted Clergy may have given him. Although this 1 The papers from Congress contained the announcement that a government would be provided as soon as possible. See ante, p. 391, and post, p. 427. Consult also III. Hist. Collections, ii., p. exxxii. 2 There is a very large number of papers concerning the dispute between Marguerite Bentley and Dodge in the K. MSS.; but it has hardly seemed worth while printing them all, although the case appears to have had its effect on the political situation. Madame Bentley belonged to the Bauvais family, which probably accounts for much of the opposition of that family to Dodge. She married Bentley shortly before he was sent a prisoner to Canada. m At that time he appears from his letters to have been fond of his wife. When hereturned to Illinois he refused to live with her and made the same charges against her that Dodge did later. On Bentley's death Dodge became executor of the estate and kept the wife out of the property. Madame Bentley could get no satisfaction in Illinois because of the lack of a court. After Dodge went to the Spanish bank, she brought suit before the commandant of St. Louis, and seems to have convinced him of her rights. The case was brought before the Court of Kaskaskia also, and, as may be seen from a later document (post, p. 431) the widow even petitioned Congress for justice. The papers do not reveal the sequel.
Page 398
398 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS is not Recorded in the Town Journal, the Coppy is to be found when Justice takes place John Dodge Executor Administrator of the Estate aforesaid Jean Bte. Barbau to the Inhabitants at Kaskaskia, May 2, 1787. [K. MSS — A. L. S.] Messieurs, Je viens de recevoir une letre de vous en datte du 30 du Mois dernier et laffiche pue je vais faire mettre a la porte de leglise je suis d'autant plus charmé de vos bonnes intentions pour letablissement dune authorité civille qui Mettra un frein a beauCoup de gens qui sont ennemis de la société. il y a longtemps Messieurs que jay pensé a vous Communiquer la Même chose puis qu'enfin l'accord et la bon intelligence me paroit réelle ches vous je vous donne mon aprobation et my transporteray autant quil me sera possible. jay l'honneur detre avec sincérité Messieurs votre très humble et très obeisant serviteur Barbau prairie durocher ce may 2me 1787 [Addressed:] A Monsieur Pierre Langlois Notaire public au district des Kaskaskias Pour être Communique a Messieurs les habittants des Kaskaskias. [Translation.] Gentlemen: I have just received a letter from you, dated the thirtieth of last month and the notice which I am to have posted on the door of the church. I am much pleased with your good intentions to establish a civil authority which will put a check upon a number of people who are enemies to society. I have thought for a long time to communicate this very thing to you, since at last accord and harmony seem real in your midst. I give you my approbation and shall come to Kaskaskia as soon as possible. I have the honor to be with sincerity, gentlemen, Your very humble and very obedient servant, Barbau. Prairie Du Rocher, this May 2, 1787. [Addressed:] To M. Pierre Langlois, Notary Public in the District of Kaskaskia, to be communicated to the Inhabitants of Kaskaskia.
Page 399
REPORT OF COMMITTEE, MAY 7, 1787 399 Report of Committee of Congress, May 7, 1787. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia, and Ky., xxx., 493.] The Committee consisting of Mr. Madison, Mr. Clark, and Mr. Dane to whom was referred sundry papers relative to the settlements of post St Vincents and the Illonois — report.1 That in the settlements of Post St. Vincents the Kaskaskias and Illi- nois there are a large number of Inhabitants, principally descendants of the antient French Setders who have for seventy or eighty years past been governed by French laws usages and Customs. Your committee find the Inhabitants of those places disposed to submit to Government and good order, and solicitous to receive their laws and protection from the united States — that for want of criminal laws and magistrates among them to administer their existing laws and customs they are subjected to very great inconveniences, and many mere land Jobbers are induced to intrude on their lands and disturbe their possessions — wherefore the Committee are clearly of opinion that Congress ought without delay to provide for the adminstration of Government and for forming some additional laws in those settlements — and therefore they submit the following resolves: Resolved that a Commissioner be appointed by Congress, whose commission shall continue in force three years unless sooner revoked, for the settlements of Post St. Vincents, Kaskaskias and Illinois, whose duty it shall be to divide the said settlements into proper districts containing not more than eight nor less than four hundred inhabitants each, and as soon as may be to summon the Inhabitants of each to meet and elect a3 near as may be for each two hundred Inhabitants one magistrate. Resolved that the magistrates of each district or the major part of them shall have full power and authority to hear and determine all Con- troversies not relating to property in lands, according to the laws, usages, and customs that prevail in such district Resolved that the said commissioner and the major part of the said magistrates of the district, (the whole being summoned to attend the Court) shall have full power and authority to examine into the titles and possessions of the Inhabitants thereof or persons claiming lands therein, 1 This report is similar in character to that of March iat 1785, printed ante, p. 371. No action was taken on it and the whole subject was forgotten in the discussion of the broader question of the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. In the Journal of Congress under July 11, 1787 (vol. xii., 57) occurs the following: "The committee, consisting of Mr. Carrington, Mr. Dane, Mr. R. H. Lee,Mr. Keen and Mr. Smith to whom was referred the report of a committee, touching the temporary government of the western territory, reported an ordinance for the government of the territory of the United States, northwest of the river Ohio, which was read a first time."
Page 400
400 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS to give judgment concerning them and to award execution according to the laws and customs prevailing in such district — and also to exercise criminal Jurisdiction and to take cognizance of all crimes and offences committed within the district and on complaint or information to con- sider the same and the evidence and award such sentence and punishment as are by the laws of Virginia annexed to like crimes and offences and it shall immediately be made known in said districts what punishments are annexed by the criminal laws of Virginia to the several species of Crimes and offences Resolved that the said Commissioner and two thirds of the said magistrates of all the districts duly assembled shall have full power by the consent of the commisioner and a major part of the magistrates present to make laws and to alter the laws of the said districts for the better government thereof reporting the same to Congress which shall be in full force unless disapproved of by Congress and the said Commis- sioner in all Courts or assemblies, in which he shall be a member, shall preside. Resolved that the said Commissioner with the advice and Consent of the major part of the said Magistrates of the district shall appoint executive officers therein respectively to carry their decrees into execu- tion— and also a register in each district and the said magistrates executive officers and registers shall continue in office four years unless sooner removed therefrom by Congress or those who appointed them respectively. Resolved that the register of the District shall keep in some con- venient place in it a registry in which there shall be recorded by him all deeds and Instruments conveying lands or any estate therein and also all executions extended on lands— it shall also be the duty of the regis- ter of the district to act as Clerk to and carefully record and preserve the proceedings of the Judicial Courts held therein Resolved that no property in lands after the first day of September next shall be transferred but by bargain and agreement fairly and openly made by the parties before some Magistrate of the District in which the lands may be by deed in writing duly executed and acknowledged in his presence attested by him and two other witnesses and registred within twelve months after the execution thereof — or by executions duly extended and registred within six months from the time of extending the same
Page 401
REPORT OF COMMITTEE, MAY 7, 1787 401 Resolved that the Commissioner be and he is hereby impowered to organize, regulate and command the militia of the said Districts and to establish suitable posts of defence against the savages — it shall be his duty to preserve peace with the Indian nations and to permit no settle- ments on their lands or Intrusions on lands of the United States in that part of the Country — it shall be his duty and the duty of the magistrates to prevent by all proper means unfair and fraudulent purchases of the lands of the said Inhabitants — it shall be his duty also to explain to them the laws of the United States and to inform Congress from time to time of the situation and Interesting concerns of those districts — it shall be his duty constantly to reside among the said Inhabitants and to pro- mote Justice harmony and industry among them Resolved that the said Commissioner and all officers appointed in said districts previous to their entering on the duties of their respective offices shall take an oath for the faithful discharge thereof and an oath of fidelity to the United States the said Commissioner before [blank] and the other officers before the said Commissioner certificates of all which oaths shall be lodged in the office of the Secretary of Congress Resolved that the Salary of the said Commissioner be at the rate of [blank] Dollars per annum and the register shall have reasonable fees established as also the other magistrates and officers for their services by the said Commissioner and magistrates authorised to make laws. Resolved that the secretary at war furnish the said Commissioner with [blank] men of the troops of the United States for the protection of said Inhabitants and preservation of order among them and for the pre- vention of intrutions [sic] on public lands [Endorsed:] Report No. 4. Mr Madison Mr Clark Mr Dane — Papers relating to Post St Vincents Illinois etc. — Entd. read May 7th. 1787 assigned for Tuesday 8th. May. See — Papers — with file of Northern and Western — Indians etc. —
Page 402
402 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Commission, Given by Barbau, to the Justices of the Peace, May 18, 1787. [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] The Commonwealth of Virginia to Henry Smith Thomas Hughes, Michael Duff antony Saint gême Beauvais francis Corset John Baptiste saint gême Beauvais Esquires. From the great Confidence in your Judgment & Intégrité by the good people of KasKasKias and its Dependencies and agreeably to an act of the General assembly of Virginia you [are] hereby constituted & appointed Justices of the peace for the District of KasKasKias and judges of the Court of the said District in cases both civil and criminal, any four or more of you are authorized to constitute a Court before whom shall [MS. torn] all actions and cases of which the Court [MS. lorn] ties of this Commonwealth, Respectively [MS. torn] your Judgments must have the Concu[M5. torn] least a majorité and be entered with [MS. torn] previous & subsequent, and fairly recorded in Books pro- vided for that purpose Witness John Baptiste Barbau Deputy County Lieutenant or Commandant in Chief of the County of Illinois the 18th. day of May in the ten year of the Commonwealth anno que Domini 1787 Barbau lie* de conte to Commandant Moro at Ste. Genevieve, June 30, 1787. [K. MSS.— A. L.] lêtre écrit au Moro, Comdt. a Ste. Genevieve Juin 3ome 1787 Je prend la liberté de vous informer que la Négresse que j'avoit reclamée comme m'ayant été emmenée par Mr Dodge, est revenue chez moi, en consequence comme elle m'appartient legitement je la retiens. J'ai l'honneur d'Etre [Translation.] Letter Written to Moro, Commandant at Ste. Genevieve, June 30,1787. I take the liberty to inform you that the negress, who I have claimed was taken from me by M. Dodge, has come back to me. Consequently, as she legally belongs to me, I keep her. I have the honor to be
Page 403
A PROTEST, JULY 5, 1787 403 [On the bock is written] A Monsieur Monsieur De la Valiniere Pretre & Curé aux Kaskaskia [Translation.] [On the bock is written] To Monsieur M. de la Valinière, Priest and Curate, at Kaskaskia. Protest of M. Bouvet against Henry Smith, July 5, 1787. [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] L'an Mil Sept Cent quatrevingt sept, le cinquieme jour du mois De Juilliet Est Comparu pardevant Le notaire public de la ville des KasKasKias Et greffier du dit lieu, soussigné, Et En presence des temoins Cy apres nomées aussy soussigné Le Sieur mathurin Bouvet Encien maire du dit KasKasKias Et Capitaine Commandant au vilage de St. philipe Le quel nous a declaré quil auroit Eté arétté par Corps le trantieme jour du mois de juin dernier par Monsieur Busk [?] En presence de Raphael Droua habitant du dit Village St. philipe par un Waran ou pris de corps decernée par le Sieur smith En sa qualité Soit disant president de la Cour des dits KasKasKias que le dit Sieur Bouvet sans avoir Conoisance de l'établissement de cette Cour se ceroit Engagé a paroitre au jours fixé pour repondre aux demandes de francois St. [Translation.] On the fifth of July, 1787, there appeared before the undersigned notary public of the village of Kaskaskia and clerk of the same place, and in the presence of witnesses, hereafter named, who signed also, the undersigned, M. Mathurin Bouvet, former mayor of the said Kas- kaskia and captain commandant at the village of St. Philippe, who declared to us that he had been arrested, on June 30 last, by M. Busk [?] in the presence of Raphael Droiiat, inhabitant of the said village of St. Philippe, on a warrant or capias issued by M. Smith in his office of soi disant president of the Court of said Kaskaskia; and further- more that the said M. Bouvet without knowledge of the establishment of that Court agreed to appear there on the day appointed in order to answer the demands of François St. Marie Montigny, his clerk. M.
Page 404
404 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS marie mongtny. [sic] Commis du dit Sieur Bouvet Lequel a quitté son domicile Et négligé toutes affaires quelconques pour se Conformer audit Waran Et s'est rendu audit lieu des KasKasKias Et n'ayant trouvé ni Chambre ni Cour ni président d'Etablis; il proteste Contre ledit Sr. smith Comme ayant décerné malapropos une prise de corps Contre luy Requierant Le dit Sieur smith de luy faire Raison D'une guinée par heure du moment qu'il est party du vilage St. Philipe jusqu'à son retour frais de voyage pension, dommages et interest; protestant En outre Contre touttes démarches inconsidérée que le dit Sr. Montignie pui faire Contre luy. ayant party du fort pitre ou le dit Sr. Bouvet L'avoit Envoyé Et ayant Eté au détroit sans aucune ordre du Sr. Bouvet ni raison valables pour ses interests Et ne luy ayant rendu aucuns Compte de la gestion de ses affaires pourquoy Le dit Sieur Bouvet pro- teste Contre tout Engagement que le Sieur montignie a pu faire ou pouroit faire par La suite En son nom Et se pourvoit par ce présentes, En dédommagement de tous frais dommages Et interest En Cas d'in- solvabilité de la part du Sr. prose du jour de larivée du Sr. Montignie au fort pitre jusqua son retour au KasKasKias pouvant prouver par [Translation.] Bouvet left his home and neglected ail his affairs in order to comply with the said warrant, and presented himself at the said place of Kas- kaskia; and, since he has not found either chamber or court or even a président established there, he protests against the said M. Smith for having issued wrongly a warrant against him, and he demands that the said M. Smith should recompense him at the rate of a guinea per hour from the time he left the village of St. Philippe until his return including his expenses on the trip, board, damages, and interest. He protests furthermore, against ail the unreasonable proceedings which the said M. Montigny may make against him, because the said Montigny de- parted from Fort Pitt, whither the said M. Bouvet had sent him, and has gone to Détroit without any order from M. Bouvet or any good purpose that might further the interests of the latter, and he has given no account of the conduct of his affairs. For thèse reasons M. Bouvet protests against ail contracts that M. Montigny may or might have made in his name. And by thèse présents he provides for indemnification in ail costs, damages, and interest in case of insolvency on the part of M. Prose, from the day of the arrivai of M. Montigny at Fort Pitt until
Page 405
A PROTEST, JULY 7, 1787 405 la lettre du dit prosps qu'il a reçu des Effets Et Emmené un cheval au detroit qu'il a gardé dont Et du tout Le dit Sr. Bouvet a requi acte qui luy a Eté octroyé pour luy Servir Et valoir ce que de raison Les jours Et an que dessus En presence des Sieur rené soumande Et francois Drouart temoins a ce requi qui ont signé avec Le dit Sieur Bouvet et Le dit notaire soussigné Lecture fait avant midy. aprouver deux rature a la premier page M. Bouvet temoins present rené soumande Drouart Pre Langlois notaire [Translation.] his return to Kaskaskia, since he is able to prove by the letter of the said Prose1 that the former received some goods and took a horse to Detroit, which he kept. For all this statement the said M. Bouvet has demanded an instrument which was granted that it may be of use and validity to him, of which this act will testify. The same day and year as above, in the presence of MM. René Soumande and François Drouart, witnesses, for this purpose invited, who have signed with the said M. Bouvet and the said notary, undersigned. Reading made. Time before noon. Two erasures on the first page approved. M. Bouvet. Witnesses present, René Soumande. Drouart. Pdîrre Langlois, Notary. Protest of Antoine Bauvais, St. Gemme Bauvais, and François Corset, July 7, 1787. [K. MSS.— A. D. S.] A L'assemble [MS. torn] eque [?]. Nous soussignés Magistrats du district des KasKasKias. [Translation.] To the Public [?] Assembly. We the undersigned magistrates of the District of Kaskaskia 1 It is impossible to make out the name.
Page 406
4o6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Avons mûrement Examiné Comme ils vous pluts Messieurs de nous honorer de la charge De magistrat, C'est pourquoy nous vous Exposons. Ie Les dits Sieurs St. Geme Bauvais et Corset Vous Expose lors qu'ils etoit Magistrats En 82 quils ont Eté Déchu par un protest mise a la porte de L'Eglise Cest pourquoy ils vous priroit de vouloir En Elire dautre a leurs lieu Et place, si toute foy que quelque personne ait a leurs reproché Sur leurs Conduit Voulant Cependant Estre utile a la societté. 2e il vous a plut Messieur d'i mètre des Citoien ameriquain auquel il natende pas la langue française, Et que nous ne pou[A/S. lorn] Comuniquer nos pensées [MS. torn] Contestations qui nous sont représenté. 3e Nous vous Exposons pour i tenir Cour sans un intreprete qui puisse Expliquer les Contestations Et ainsy que la loi, a Nous accordé par L'assemblée gênerai de la Virginie Et i traduire toutes plainte et la loi afin que nous puision terminer nous n'anConnoissons [Translation.] Hâve carefully examined, gentlemen, the announcement that you have been pleased to honor us with the office of magistrates, and it is for that reason that we make known to you the following: ist. The said St. Geme, Bauvais, and Corset1 show you that, when they were magistrates in '82, they were deprived of their office by a pro- test posted on the door of the church,* and it is for this reason that they prayed you to consent to the élection of others in their place and stead. If some person, nevertheless, should reproach them for their conduct, yet they are willing to be useful to society.' 2d. It has pleased you, gentlemen, to place in office American citizens who do not understand the French language, and with whom we cannot communicate our thoughts [concerning the] litigations that are brought before us. 3d. We show you [that it will be impossible] to hold court without an interpréter who will be able to explain the contentions, as well as the law granted us by the General Assembly of Virginia, and that we do not know anyone capable of translating to the Court ail complaints as well as 1 The passage probably refers to three men. J. St. Gemme Bauvais was gencrally callcd St. Gemme, although Antoine Bauvais bad the same naine. * The notice posted probably by Winston in November, 1782. See ante, p. 343. 3 Meaning of the French is not clear.
Page 407
A PROTEST, JULY 7, 1787 407 pas personne capable, Si vous pouvez nous En procurer un, et que vous vouliez vous En raporter a lintreprete vous En puisseré un acte. 4ie Quil Soit Etabli une chambre de justice pour i chieger [siéger?]. 5e Si vous ne Consente pas a mentenir la Cour telle quel est Etablis Loi accorde que toutes fois que quelque Gouvernement Sera trouve inCapable de produire Ces Effets la pluralité [MS. lorn] dans la Societté a un indubitable] inaliénable et inviolable droit de le reformer altérer ou abolir de la manier que Ion jugera plus apropos et la plus avantageuse au bien public voyé L'article 3. 6ie Pour obvier au frais de justice si vous juge a propos qui ny est que un huissier pour exerser Les ordres émané de la Cour. Et En Cas que vous y Consente Et que quelque personne qui ce trouveront dans la prohibition des ordres vous donneré main forte a l'huissier Et Ceux qui ceront Commandé ceront payé par celuy qui ce trouvera Dans la prohibition Et Nous avons l'honneur Destre [Translation.] the law so that we may come to a décision. [We further show] that, if you are able to procure an interpréter for us and are willing to put your reliance on the interpréter, you should pass an act to that effect. 4th. That there be established a chamber of justice for holding sessions. 5th. If you do not consent to maintain the Court as it was estab- lished, the law grants that, whenever government shall be found to be incapable of producing good order, the plurality of votes in society has an indubitable, inaliénable, and inviolable right to reform, alter, or abolish it in whatever manner it shall be judged to be most fitting and for the greatest advantage to the public welfare. See article 3. 6th. In order to decrease the expense of administering justice, if you judge it fitting, there need be only one huissier to exécute the orders issuing from the Court: provided you consent to this that, when per- sons are found in the act of opposing the orders, you will lend assistance, and that those who shall be commanded to assist shall be paid by the person who makes the opposition. We have the honor to be, gentlemen,
Page 408
408 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Messieurs Votre humble obeis* Serviteur Antoine Bauvais F Corset J. S. G. Bauvais le 7e juiliet 1787 [Translation.] Your very humble and obedient servants, Antoine Bauvais. F. Corset. J. S. G. Bauvais. July 7, 1787. Fragment of Agreement among the Citizens of Kaskaskia, July 8, 1787. [K. MSS.—A. D. S.] [MS. torn] les repre[senta] tion des Magistrats. Avons murement Considerer L'impossibiliter d'avoir des intrepreter Et ainsy l'impossibilité des Magistrat français et ameriquain, de Com- muniquer leurs pensée sur le sujet Et Contestations qu'ils peuvent Leurs Estre présenté a la Cour de justice Et pour obvier aux frais. C'est pourquoy nous sommes tous unanimement d'avis qu'il n'est que des Magistrat françois Comme Etoit etably la cour lors quelle Etoit établi par feu M. tod, Lt. de Comté, Et Ceux qui ont Eû les voy à l'eléc- [Translation.] [MS. torn] the repre- [sentajtions of the magistrates. We have carefully considered the impossibility of having interpreters and also the impossibility of French and American magistrates communi- cating their thoughts on the subjects and litigations that may be present- ed to them in the court of justice and also how to avoid the expense. It is for this reason that we are all unanimously of the opinion that there should be only French magistrates just as the Court was estab- lished when it was erected by the late M. Todd, County Lieutenant; and that of those who have received the votes in the election which M.
Page 409
AN AGREEMENT, JULY 8, 1787 409 tion qua fait M. Barbaux Lt. de Comté, Les personnes français seront Magistrat avec Les trois français qui ont deja prêté Serment, tent pour la presentation que Ion nous a fait touchant un protest. Et [MS. torn] n'ayant rien à leurs rep [MS. torn] jusqua present que natendans p[as] la langue française pour Estre membre de la Cour établis à suivre La loi a Nous accoutumé accordé par L'act de lasemblée general de la Virginie, et cela jusqua que le Congré auquel nous dépendons ayet Envoyé la resolutions du plan quil a pris pour Le- tablissement d'un Gouvernement En le district Et pour un cheriff nous sommes d'opinion qu'il n'En ayet pas qu'un huissier auquel nous don- nerons toutes mains forte Lorsque le cas le requera, au KasKasKias ce 8 juillet 1787 et dans la sirconstances lhuissier donnera Caution. Louis buyat Janis Jno. Edgar Lachanse Vital Bauvais [MS. torn] Barutel [MS. torn] delisle M1 antaya Sa marque Arch<1 Macnabb' Jne chenier sa marque amable gagnié sa marque dan Lanieuse sa marque jerome danis sa marque. [Translation.] Barbau, County Lieutenant, held, the Frenchmen shall be magistrates together with the three Frenchmen who have already taken the oath. As for the representation which has been made to us concerning a pro- test [MS. torn] not having anything to their rep until the present, that not understanding the French language in order to be a member of the established court, to follow the law to which we are accustomed which has been granted us by the General Assembly of Virginia, and that until Congress, on which we depend, shall have sent the decision concerning the plan which it has determined upon for the establishment of a government in the district. And in regard to a sheriff we are of the opinion that there should be only one huissier, to whom we shall all give assistance whenever it will become necessary. Kaskaskia, July 8, 1787, and under the circumstances the huissier will give security.1 Louis Buyat. Janis. Jno. Edgar. La Chanse. Vital Bauvais. [MS. torn] Barutel. [Mark of +] de Lisle M1 Antaya, his mark. ARCHd MacNabb. Jne. Chenier, his mark. Amable Cagné, his mark. Dan. Lanieuse, his mark. Jerome Danis, his mark. 1 The records of the sessions of the Court thusrevived have been printed by E. G.Mason,in "John Todd's Record-Book," in Chi. Hist. Society's Collections, iv., 309.
Page 410
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Joseph Parker to President St. Clair, October 2, 1787. [Draper MSS., 14S170-173.— Copy.] New York Octobr 2d, 1787. Honble Sir, I left Kaskaskia the 5th June last,1 and the people of the Illinois expected Government would have been established amongst them this last spring or summer. The inhabitants of Kaskaskia and other villages intended to have another petition by me to Congress, but as it was not ready when I was about to leave that place, the people desired I would communicate their sentiments to the Congress respecting the price of lands in the Illinois.3 The inhabitants find by an Ordinance of Con- gress that lands in the Western country are rated at a dollar an acre, and the mode of disposing of those lands are very unfavorable to the settling of that country, because they are rated so high for them to pur- chase, and those who will first settle the country, and the place of sale of the lands too great a distance for them to attend — and that some allow- ance should be made to them who have risqued their lives to settle in that country. If the price of the lands is not reduced, it is the determina- tion of the people to go on the other side of the Mississippi, or down to the Natchez, to settle; and such is the encouragement to people who will settle in the Spanish Territory that a thousand acres of rich land is given to every person — I have known six thousand acres given to one man — in order to encourage the culture of tobacco. The King of Spain allows ten silver dollars pr ct for tobacco, which is received at the King's Treas- ury at New Orleans. The inhabitants also complain of the traders from Michilimakinac and Detroit, that they should be suffered to remain in their villages, and engross all the fur trade and country belonging to the United States, to the great injury of American subjects. The inhabitants are of opinion that nothing but a government will check their practises of setting the savages upon them. 1 For the movements of Joseph Parker, consult III. Hist. Collections, ii., pp. cxxx., et. seq. From his statement above it would seem he remained in Kaskaskia from January till June and must there- fore have assisted the people in driving out John Dodge and in reviving their court, which held its first session June 5. This accounts for Dodge's personal hostility to Parker, with which he was able to inspire Colonel Harmar also, for the latter writes: "There have been some imposters before Congress, particularly one Parher, a whining canting Methodist, a kind of would be Governor. He is extremely unpopular at Kaskaskia and despised by the Inhabitants." C. C. Pp., Letters 0/ H. Knox, C. L., v. 3, p. 89; also printed in Smith, St. Clair Papers, ii., 35. * The earlier petition from Kaskaskia carried by Parker is printed ante, p. 381, and the one from Cahokia in vol. ii., 567. The petition referred to here was never sent; at least no record of it is extant.
Page 411
REVIEW OF CONGRESSIONAL ACTION 411 There is such a considerable trade carried on in the Illinois, that a sufficient revenue might be raised by laying a duty upon the goods car- ried into that country, and upon the fur carried out. The traders in St. Louis and St. Genevieve, on the other side of the Mississippi have not less than an hundred traders, who are supplied with goods annually from Michilimakinac and Detroit, and sent down to Kaskaskia and Cahokia, and the Spaniards come over and purchase them. Each trader purchases, on an average, from thirty to forty thousand livres annually, which is six thousand dollars. The traders of St. Louis and St. Genevieve have often told me, if Americans would supply them with goods at Kas- kaskia & Cahokia they would give them the preference, and allow them 125 pr ct advance on the sterling cost. You will easily perceive the revenue that might be raised annually in that new country. I am, Sir, yr hble serv1 Jos Parker Hon. Ar. St. Clair, Près' Congress. Secretary of Congress Reviews Congressional Action, December 28, 1788. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., clxxx., 11.] Office of Secretary of Congress Deer. 28,1788 On the petition of the Inhabitants of Kaskaskies and the neighbour- ing village, dated the 10 Novr. 1784.1 praying Congress to grant them a power of chosing magistrates, who shall hold their offices during good behaviour — 2d. A Judicature to which there shall be an appeal from the Judgment of the Magistrates in certain cases. — 3d. To prevent the abuse arising from Individuals engrossing great quantities of land, with a view of selling them at exorbitant prices — 4th. That in case troops are sent among them, they may not be exposed to the disorder they have heretofore experienced from them, but that the Commanding Officer be obliged to apply to a Magistrate for what he wants — 5th. That the Officer sent among them, may be one who under- stands their language —And 6th. That, in consideration of their losses 1 The memorial from Cahokia, printed in ///. Hist. Collections, ii., 567.
Page 412
413 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS by the overflowing of the Mississippi and the dread of the savages by which they have been several times compelled to abandon their habita- tions, they may be for some years exempt from taxes, and that when they shall be obliged to pay them, they may be allowed to choose from among themselves persons, who taking cognizance of what each Individual possesses, may be able to decide what each ought to pay — The Secretary of Congress reports, That in the Year [blank] the French and Canadian Inhabitants, and other Settlers of the Kaskaskies, St Vincents, and the neighbouring villages stipulated with General Clarke to become Subjects and Citizens of the Commonwealth of Vir- ginia, on condition that their possessions and tides should be confirmed to them, and that they should be protected in the enjoyment of their rights and liberties for which purpose troops should be stationed there to protect them from the encroachments of the british forces at Detroit or elsewhere, unless the events of the war should render it imprac- ticable. That the Legislature of Virginia in their Act of 2d. Jany 17811 resolved that they would yeild [sic] to the Congress of the United States for the benefit of the said States all right, title and claim, which the said Commonwealth had to the lands northwest of the River Ohio on cer- tain conditions — the 3d. of which was, "That the french and Canadian Inhabitants and other settlers at the Kaskaskies, St Vincent, and the neighbouring Villages who have professed themselves citizens of Vir- ginia, should have their possessions and rights confirmed to them, and should be protected in the enjoyment of their rights and liberties, for which purpose troops should be stationed there at the charge of United States to protect them from the encroachments of the British forces at Detroit, or elsewhere, unless the events of the war should render it impracticable." — With respect to this condition Congress agreed on the 13th. Sept. 1783. That the setders before described should have their possessions and titles confirmed to them, and be protected in the enjoyments of their rights and liberties. That in consequence of these previous stipulations of the Delegates of the Commonwealth pursuant to an Act of the legislature of that State, did on the 1st. of March 17842 execute a deed conveying to the United States in Congress assembled all the right of that Commonwealth 1 Journals of Congress, iv., 342. J Ibid , a., 47.
Page 413
REVIEW OF CONGRESSIONAL ACTION 413 to the territory North westward of the Ohio on the terms and conditions contained in the before mentioned Act of Congress of 13th. Sept. 1783 — which deed was accepted and ordered to be recorded and enrolled among the Acts of Congress. The Secretary farther reports — That in November 1784 Mr. Carboneaux1 presented to Congress a memorial in behalf of the sd Settlers and Inhabitants, in consequence of which Congress on the 21st. Feby 1785,3 resolved that one or more Commissioners be appointed to repair to the Kaskaskies and Illinois settlements, and afterwards on the 15th. June 1785,' they passed an Act, whereby the Commissioners for treating with the western Indians were ordered to endeavour to obtain from the Inhabitants of Kaskaskies, St Vincents and others a Statement of their rights to lands within the sd. Country guarantied to them by Congress in their acceptance of the Virginia Cession, with the origin and extent thereof and to administer to the said Inhabitants an Oath of Allegiance in terms prescribed in the said Act — That on the 29th. of the said Month of June4 Congress repealed so much of the Act of the 15th. as required the Commissioners to obtain from the Inhabitants of Kaskaskies St Vincents and others a statement of their rights to lands and to administer an Oath to the said Inhabitants. — That the Act of 21st. Feby. last stands unrepealed, and the ap- pointment of one or more Commissioners to repair to the Kaskaskies, continues an order of the day, and that there is now before Congress a report of a Committee on the powers and instructions to be given to the said Commissioners.5 • On this state of facts the Secretary of Congress submits, That a day be assigned for the consideration of the report of the Committee on the powers and Instructions to be given to the Commissioner or Commissioners to be appointed to proceed to the Kaskaskies and Illinois settlements — 1 See ante, p. 369, for memorial of December 8,1784. 2 Sec ante, p. 370. s Journals of Congress, x., 148. 4 Ibid., x., 154. « See ante, pp. 371, 399.
Page 414
414 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Census of Kaskaskia, 1787. [C. C., I11., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviii., 181.] Liste des habitans français du village des kaskaskias. I Nicholas Janis père1 I5 françois Lachanse 2 françois Janis 16 Joseph Lachanse 3 antoine Janis 17 Michel Lachanse 4 Joseph Charleville3 18 Charles Lachanse 5 J. Bte charleville *9 Benjamin Lachanse 6 Louis Charleville 30 Jerome Dany Père6 7 Jacques devignais8 21 Michel Dany fils 8 Joseph Devignais 22 J. Bte Delisle père7 9 J Bte. Creilly père4 23 J. Bte Delisle fils 10 j. Bte creilly fils 34 André Delisle 11 ... .creilly fils a5 Louis Delisle Pere 12 Niehs. Lachanse père5 26 Louis Delisle, fils 13 Antoine Lachanse 37 Etienne Delisle 14 Gabriel Lachanse 28 St. James Bauvais père8 1 This census was drawn up for the use of Tardiveau. (See post, p. 445.) On Nicolas Janis, see ""^2'rhesè three were all sons of thejean Bte. Charleville who died in 1782. Besides these there were two sisters Genevieve and Pelagie. The family of Chauvin dit Charleville was in Kaskaskia as early as 1737, for on September 29 of that year Jean Chauvin signed a contract of marriage with Agnes LaCroix. The men of the family, Jean Bte., Charles, and François, who were prominent during the Virginia period were sons of Joseph Chauvin who died in 1778, each of whom was elected to the position of justice of peace. Charles was captain of the Kaskaskia company that went to Vincennes. K. MSS.— Mar- riage Contracts; consult also Index of this volume and of Houck's Hist. ol Missouri. * Jacques Devignais married Marianne Seguin dit Laderoute. Their daughter Therese signed marriage contract with Michel Derousse February 11,1787. K. MSS.— Marriage Contracts. * A Joseph Creilly, or Crely, son of Jean Bte. and Marie Agctte (widow), signed marriage contract with Marie Louise Marquis, May 28,1768. A Jean Bte. Creilly emigrated from Kaskaskia to Floris- sant, Mo., in 1787. Houck, Hist. ol Missouri, ii., 67. ,„._... » Nicolas Caillot dit Lachanse: He played an important part in Illinois during this period, as may be seen by consulting the Index. He was twice elected to the magistracy and became a follower of John Dodge during his ascendency. He left Kaskaskia to settle with his sons at New Bourbon. Houck. Hist. ol Missouri, i., 366. • Members of the family of Danis were in Kaskaskia as early as 1725. The descent of these two may be shown as follows: Charles m.-^?), had son Michel, who married Marie Barbe Pillet (mar- riage contract, April 28,17_45); their children Therese m. Alexis Bauvais, a daughter m. Antoine Bien- venu, Charles, Joseph, Michel m. Elizabeth Bienvenu (marriage contract, February 5,1782), Jerome m. Pelagie Doza (marriage contract, February 4, 1782). 7 The full name of the family seems to have been Bienvenu de Lisle. * Bauvais dit St. J erne or St. Gemme: This was one of the wealthiest and most important families in Kaskaskia. The members of the family of this time were descended from Jacques Bauvais who emigrated to Canada in 1653. In 1725 Jean Bte. and Raphael Bauvais came to Kaskaskia. The descendants of the former are shown in the following table drawn from the marriage contracts of ihe K. MSS. Jean Bte. Bauvais, m. Louise LaCroix, 1725. I Raphael m. Catherine Alary both dead in 1786 Charles I Antoine m. Francoise Guielle Vital I claughter I Alexis daughter m. ra. m. J.Bte.Thaumur Therese M. Louis dit Lasource Danis Germain (Mar. Contract Nov. 11, 1786) Jean Bte. Marie Jeanne Marie m. m. Louise Marie Therese René Dupuis m. Boucher de Paul Monbreun de Desruisseaux la Soudray Therese (Mar. Contract m. Jan. 29, 1770) M. Antoine Chenier (Mar. Contract Nov. 14, 1779)
Page 415
CENSUS OF KASKASKIA, 1787 415 29 Raphael Bauvais 49 tomur 30 Vital Bauvais 50 Bazile Alary 31 Barthy. Bauvais 51 J Bte. Alary 32 Jos. Marie Bauvais 52 Louis Lonval Père13 33 Antoine Bauvais 53 Louis Lonval fils 34 Jos. Baugy père9 54 Jos. Lonval 35 Jos. Baugy fils 55 Jos. Lonval 36 Charles Baugy 56 Bazile Lachapelle" 37 J. Bte. desruisseaux10 57 Antoine Lachapelle 38 frs. Desruisseaux 58 J. Bte. Lachapelle 39 Jos. Desruisseaux 59 Jos. Lachapelle 40 Blaize toulouze père" 60 Louis Lachapelle 41 Noël toulouze 61 J. Bte. Lasource tomur 42 frans. toulouze 62 Ch. Robin15 43 Henry toulouze 63 frs. Desrousses18 44 toulouze 64 Philipe Desrousses 45 J. Bte. tomur Pere13 65 Jerome Desrousses 46 J Bte tomur fils 66 Stanislas Levasseur17 47 tomur 67 Nis. Levasseur 48 tomur 68 Victor Levasseur At the time of Clark's occupation of Kaskaskia, Raphael and Charles were residents of New Orleans. The Bauvais family was not counted among those favorable to the American cause. For some reason no representative of the family was elected at the first election of judges, but that was corrected in the second election, after which a member of the family was always in the magistracy. The Bauvais family held on to their possessions in Kaskaskia as long as possible, but finally like their as- sociates they were driven to the Spanish side. Their descendants are living to-dav in Ste. Genevieve. The men of this period always wrote Bauvais, not Beauvais. Marguerite, the wife of Thomas Bent- ley, was probably the daughter of the first Jean Baptiste. 9 The ancestor of the Baugy family came to Canada from France about 1650. Joseph Baugy was his great grandson. He married Marie Plasy or Duplasy at Kaskaskia, 1788. (See below n. 51). He went to Arkansas where the Baugy trading post was soon well known. He left several sons. The eldest, Joseph, was educated at New Orleans, married, in 1805, Marie Bauvais, and was the father of Senator Vital Baugy. Notes by B. Suite. 10 The family name was Trottier dit Desruisseaux. 11 Probably the family of Damours. W Family name Thaumur or Taumer dit Lasource. Consult Index. li Family name Fafard dit Longval, sometimes written Nonval. The family produced several famous interpreters and traders. "Bazile Tanot dit Lachapelle was born in 1741, married, 1767, Marie Elizabeth Choquet, left the island of Montreal after 1770, with his wife and son Bazile and went to Kaskaskia. 18 A Charles Robin, born at St. Thomas, Canada, in 1738, married Marie Anne Roy, died at Kas- kaskia, June 8, 1779- The above is probably his son. 18 A Francois Desrousses dit St. Pierre married Marie Josephte Turpin, and had the following children: Michel, m. Thérèse Deveignat (mar. contract, February 11, 1787); Jean Bte. m. Angélique Rover (mar. contract, August 27,1785); a daughter, m. Joseph Tibault; Joseph, m. Marianne Roy, widow of Antoine Thaumur (mar. contract, July 30,1786). 17 The ancestor of Levasseur came from Rouen to Canada in the middle of the seventeenth cen- tury. Stanislas was born in 1732, married at Quebec, in 1756, Francois Dd'oeil. They were in Quebec as late as 1764. Some time thereafter they came to Kaskaskia. Stanislas was elected justice in February, 1782. He had the following children: Nicolas Simeon, born 1760; Charlotte, bom 1762; Jean Bte., born 1771, and buried at Kaskaskia, December 10,1778; Pierre, was buried in 1776; Noel, born 1757. The son Nicolas married Thérèse Bienvenu, January 18,1784. Notes by Benj. Suite,
Page 416
4i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 69 fs. charleville18 9i Ch. Delisle père 70 Louis charleville 92 Jos. Delisle 71 Jos. charleville 93 Antoe. Pelletier pe[re] 73 charleville 94 Jacque Gossiaud 73 Me. Antaye1' 95 Louis Gossiaud 74 Vital Bauvais Père10 96 J Bte. Lachanse 75 Jos. Bauvais 97 Ante. Buiat Père 76 Pierre Langlois21 98 Ante. Buiat fils 77 Augustin Langlois 99 Louis Buiat fils 78 André Langlois 100 Antoine Buiat 79 Antoine Langlois IOI Aimé Buiat 80 Louis Brazeau père22 10a Louis Buiat Père 81 Jos. Brazeau 103 Alexandre Lalande28 8a Augustin Brazeau 104 Ante. Morin Père27 83 Louis Brazeau 105 Ante. Morin fils 84 Ns. Canada Père23 106 Louis Morin 85 Pascal lasource 107 Jos Morin 86 fs. Canada 108 J. Bte. Morin 87 Me. Danis Père 109 Me. Morin 88 Ante. Bienvenu fils24 IIO Alexis Morin 89 Louis Ladéroute25 11i Ante. Bienvenu Père 90 J. Bte. Ladéroute 113 Henry Bienvenu 18 See above, n. 2. 19See III. Hist. Collections, ii. , 632, n. 99. 20 See above, n. 8. 31 It has been, as yet, impossible to discover the line of succession of the Langlois family from the first member to whom Prairie du Rocher was granted by the French commandant Boisbriant. In a document of December 30, 1740, we learn that the late Etienne Langlois married Marie Catherine Heaudrau, a widow, and had the following children: Marie Louise m. Pierre Messager; Marie Joa- chinem. Louis Populussieur de St. Photes; Toinette, m. Pierre Boucher de MonbreunsieurdeSoudray; Francois; Louis; Girard; Perine; Auguste. These last five were minors. From other sources it is learned that Etienne had two brothers, Auguste, who lived at Kaskaskia, and Louis. What relation the notary Pierre Langlois was to these is not apparent. He was married to Catherine Normand Lahriere, and had two children, Pierre and Marie Louise. The latter signed a marriage contract with Pierre Lefebvre of Vincennes, October 9, 1785. The life of Pierre Langlois is told in the documents published in this volume. He died in 1789, and his widow took oath to the inventory of the property December 14, of that year. JC. AfSS.— Court Record. 22 See ante, p. 19 n. 1. 33 Family name Enau dit Canada. 24 Family name Bienvenu dit Delisle. A François Bienvenu was at Detroit in 1701. One of his sons, Antoine, married at Kaskaskia, in 1726, Françoise Rabut. Their children were Elizabeth, m. Pierre Gclina dit Lacourse (mar. contract, October 31, 1744); and Antoine, m. twice, the second time to Louise Danis. The son of this last Antoine is the Antoine fils above. The father died at Kas- kaskia May 11,1805. There are in the K. MSS. a number of papers relating to a quarrel between the father and son. 28 A Jacques Ladéroute was killed by the Indians at Kaskaskia on November 14,1768. He may have been the father of these two. The name Ladéroute belongs to ten Canadian families. Notes by Benj. Suite. 20 A Jacques Lalande was in Kaskaskia before 1729. 27 Antoine Morin, son of Jacques Morin and Therese Immineur of Parish of St. François, Quebec- signed a contract of marriage, at Ste. Genevieve, with Therese Lachapelle, on May 16, 1768. He was elected justice of peace in September, 1782.
Page 417
CENSUS OF KASKASKIA, 1787 417 «3 Me. Bienvenu 134 Louis Lacroix [14 timothy de Monbrun2' I35 Ante. Pelletier fils35 "5 Jacques Chénier père2" 136 René Soumande39 [16 Jacqs. Chénier fils 137 Me. Soumande ti7 fs. Chénier 138 J Bte. St. pierre37 ti8 Ch. Charleville 139 Provôt [19 Jacques Morancy30 140 Antoine Brisetout C30 Jos. toulouze pére 141 Ns. Brisetout [21 Jos. toulouze fils 142 Gabl. Aubuchon33 122 Alexandre toulouze 143 fs. Lemieux Père39 123 fs. Gagnon 144 fs. Lemieux fils 124 Ante. Bauvais père31 145 Louis Lemieux 25 Ante. Bauvais fils 146 Amable Gagner 26 Jos. Bauvais 147 Jos. Royer 27 Louis Bauvais 148 fs. Gagner 28 Ante. Chénier 149 Louis Gagner 29 fs. Corset32 150 Chs. Dany pere40 30 Jos. Doza Pere33 I5ï chartes Dany fils 31 Alexis Doza 151 Jos. Dany 3a Jos. Doza fils 153 Louis Germain pere41 33 Etienne Pagé34 153 J. Bte. Germain fils » See III. Hist. Collections, ii., n. a, and cxxiv. 29 A Claude Chenier married Marie Louise Brunet. Their children were Marie Louise, m. Joseph Poupart of Cahokia (mar. contract, September 8, 1767); Antoine, m. Therese Bauvais (mar. contract, November 14,1779); Jacques, m. Therese Archange Boucher de Monbreun (mar. contract, February 22, 1784). 30 The family of Bauché dit Morancy has been at Quebec and Isle d'Orleans since the middle of the seventeenth century. M See above, n. 8. K François Corset was elected justice in 1782 and 1787. Although this fact indicates that he was an important man, I have been unable to find more about him. 92 According to a will dated March 4, 1748, among the K. MSS., Pierre Doza and his wife Mar- guerite Gigniar had two children, Noel Joseph and Marguerite. The daughter signed a contract of marriage with J. Bte. Guillon on December 28, 1732. 1 ne son, Noel Joseph, probably the "Joseph pere" of the census, married Josephte Pelletier. Their children were: Joseph, m. Catherine Longval (mar. contract, June a, 1782); Pclagie, m. Jerome Danis (mar. contract, February 4, 1782); a daugh- ter, m. John Williams. M The family of Page- was long settled at Kaskaskia and owned a mill on the east bank of the Kaskaskia River. They probably came from Canada. « See above, n. 19- M The Soumande family has been a family of some importance in Canada. The surmanes of the family are Ca nan ville, La fleur, and Delorme. Benj. Suite thinks that the above member of the family was a René François born at Montreal in 1736. "Thirty different families in Canada have adopted the name of St. Pierre, but see above, n. 16. 28 The ancestors of the Aubuchon family came from Normandy to Canada in 1644. A branch of the family settled in Kaskaskia during the French regime. Gabriel Aubuchon moved to Missouri before the end of the century. Houck, Hist, of Missouri, ii., 68. 99 The Lemieux were an old Canadian family. * See above, n. 6. « See III. Hist. Collections, il, 630, n. 83.
Page 418
4i8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 154 155 156 157 1S8 iS9 160 161 162 163 164 165 166 167 Louis Germain fils Jacq. Labruyère42 fs. Labruyère Jos. St. pierre thibaud père fs. thibaud fils J. Bte. St. pierre pere42 Alexis St. pierre fils Jos. Page" Paul Reaulme père44 Pierre Reaulme Paul Reaulme Reaulme Reaulme 168 Jos. Creilly fils47 169 Alexis Bauvais4' 170 Jerome Bauvais 171 frs. Languedoc4* 172 J. Bte. placis50 173 Jos. Placis 174 Louis Placis 175 Me. St pierre 176 thibaud 177 Pierre toulouze 178 Claude Buiat 179 Pierre Buiat 180 Louis Barrois51 181 J. Bte. Montureuil père52 182 J. Bte. Montureuil fils 183 Montureuil 184 J. Bte. filiss 185 Recollct Levasseur53 a commencer à la rivière a Marie deux lieues au dessous de la rivière des Kaskaskias en suivt. les cotes jusqu'à une lieuë au dessus des Cahokias.48 de laditte riviere a Maria à la wwiw a mautift) co qui fait pin ligues de dittnnire sut diM linnet de ppufuwdou» p* loa hobitonto doo lumliaohiao. 42 Written also Labriere. 43 Sec above, n. 37. 44 See above, n. 34. 48 Reaume is a Canadian and Detroit name. On January 20, 1743, Paul Reaume signed a con- tract of marriage with Marie Louise Lasoude. 40 Translation: Commencing at the river' A Marie," two leagues below the Kaskaskia River and following the bluffs up to a league above (below ?) Cahokia. 47 See above, n. 4. 48 See above, n. 8. 10 A Canadian family. A son, François, was born at Quebec in 1738, and he has not been traced- Perhaps this may be he or his son. *° See ante, p. 18, n. 5, on Plasy. M Antoine Jean Bte. Barrois, surgeon from Parish of St. Nicolas in Berry, married, in Montreal, January 12, 1672, a daughter of Francois Le Ber. He had the following children: Philippe, who lived some time at Detroit and was buried at Kaskaskia, February 16, 1722; Francois, born at La- prairie, 1675, married MarieAnne Sauvage and lived at Detroit; Jean Bte. Bertlor, a royal notary, m. Madeleine Cardinal, was in Detroit 1722-24, was in Kaskaskia in 1732, where he acted as notary until 1754, when hemoved to Nouvelle Chartres, where he died in March, 1757. From the settlement of his estate we learn that he left the following children: Thérèse, m. François Lefevre DuChouquet; Catherine, m. Joseph Duguay Duplasy, their daughter Marie Louise marrying in 1788 Joseph Baugy of Beauport, Canada, (mar. contract, August r7, 1788); Benaventurc, captured by the English in 1760; a daughter, widow of a Laforme, lived in New Orleans; Madeleine, m; 1, Louts Marin, 2, De Portneuf; Celeste, m. in 1757, Michel Lamis (mar. contract in Mo. Hist. Society); Joseph, of age in 1760; Louis, a minor in 1760; François, a minor in 1760. The names of two other sons are: Louis, baptized in Kaskaskia, July 14, 1732, not living in 1760 {Transactions of III. State Hist. Society, 1904, p. 399) and Jacques, m. at Cahokia October 12, 1747, Suzanne Baron, died about 1753 without heirs (Beni. Suite's notes). On the notary Barrois consult, Alvord, "Illinois in the Eighteenth Cen- tury," Bulletin of the 111. State Hist. Library, i., No. 52 Perhaps he belongs to the Canadian family of Montreuil. MSec above, n. 17.
Page 419
CENSUS OF PRAIRIE DU ROCHER, 1787 419 186 Mathurin Bouvet84 187 Rousseau 188 Lamalice Deshêtres65 189 190 Hypolite Laforme58 191 Manégre [Endorsed:] Liste des habitans des Kaskaskias Census of Prairie du Rocher, 1787. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviii., 179.] Etat des habitants du village de la prairie du rocher et leurs enfant malles ceux qui ont signe les mémoires pour les congres" I. Mr barbau père58 S- jaques la sabtonieres 2. Mr Louvieres5* 6 Joseph Mendoce ses fils 7 gerard langlois*0 Pierre louvieres ses fils antoine louvieres etienne langlois francois louvieres francois langlois Noël louvieres charles langlois 3- Mr barbau fils 8. aime Comte 61 ses fils aime Comte son fils jean baptiste barbau Joseph Comte son neveu andré barbeau 9- francois tibau jaques boutiliet[?] orphelin ses fils 4 jaques perrien francois tibau ses beaux fils charles tibau jean pierre allard alexis tibau augustin allard henri tibau jean baptiste allard ses beaux fils « A Dr. Jean Bouvet dit La Chambre came to Canada from France about 1670. A Mathurin Bouvet married near Montreal, Marie Josephte Soumande, about 1770. This may be the above. Although Mathurin Bouvet played an important part during the Virginia period, I have failed to note his name on documents of an earlier date. He lived at first at St. Philippe, but was made civil and criminal judge of Kaskaskia for a short time in 1786. By 1792 he had moved to St. Charles on the Spanish side, where he engaged in the manufacture of salt. He was later burned to death by the Indians. Consult Index of this volume; Houck, Hist. 0} Missouri, ii., 99. M A Louis Deshêtres, son of Antoine and Marie Charlotte Chevalier, was an interpreter on the Illinois River at about this time. M A Canadian name belonging to several families. 57 Translation: Census of the inhabitants of Prairie du Rocher and of the male children, those who have signed the memorials to Congress. m See ante, p. 18, n. 3. w Louvieres or Louviere was elected justice for the village in 1779 and served the full term. See ante, p. 85. He continued to live in the village after 1790 and was appointed to important posts. «o See ante, p. 416, n. ax. 81 Aymé Comte was elected justice of Prairie du Rocher in 1782. He reappeared as judgein 1784, for some unknown reason. See ante, p. 353-
Page 420
420 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 10. ii. 12. toussaint barrel 14. gabriel de cochy" augustin jivaud ses fils jean baptiste givaud louis decochy pierre chevallier gabriel de cochy louis vasseur son neveu ses beaux fils george vittmer andre chevallier ses fils nicolas vittmer Joseph chevallier antoine Cotino louis meterrer orphelin batiste Cotino louis Dorrè Joseph tangue 15. Joseph terrier son beaufrere 16. jean baptists janis6< louis grillet [ ?] dit laronde ses fils louis grillet son fils jean baptist janis antoine domingo ses beaux fils francois tangue antre janis pierre jaquemin orphelin iean baptista jaquemin M Simon toilon Etat des habitants qui n'ont point signe les Mémoires a la prairie du rocher.85 Joseph blay ses fils Joseph blay louis blay antoine blay charles blay ses beaux fils louis vasseur ** ambroise vasseur Joseph vasseur Joseph Cochon Madame veuve duclos ses fils antoine duclos alexandre duclos michel duclos charles chevallier orphelin 3. Joseph De celles 4. francois Simonau ses fils francois simonau antoine simonau 5. jaques degagnier jean baptiste degagnier jean baptiste degagnier son fils laurent degagnier son fils 6. pierre degagnier 79 en tout. 03 According to signature his name was Giovani Baptista Jacomini. 1783. M The only signature of this man that I have seen looks as if the name was Gecochy. probably given correclly hère. 111 Hc was the son of Nicolas Janis (see anlc, p. 18, n. 4), and was bom in 1759. Hc was He was eiected justice in but it isof Missouri. 1., 354 "Translation: List of inhabitants who did not sign the memorials at Prairie du Rocher. MSee ante, p. 415, n. 17.
Page 421
LIST OF AMERICANS IN ILLINOIS, 1787 421 List op Americans in Illinois, September 7, 1787. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviii., 177.] Second list amounting to 97. A list of the Inhabitanc [sic] of the Illinoise Septr. 7th. 1787 1 Mens Names. Ann". 1779 Children 1780 ShadrickBond* William Piggot David Guise Levi Piggot Laton White James Piggot Josiah Ryan8 Joseph Piggot Timothy Belew M€ni?8° William Gratt Nicholas Smith4 John Gratt James Piggot6 John Allison • Jacob Gratt8 Joseph Allison George Hendrick Charles Wood7 Men 1781 Robert Craighton James Moore10 Larkin Reatherfoard8 William Biggs u 1 For another list of Americans, see post, p. 443. This list was made by Tardiveau for use in his petitions to Congress. A comparison of this census with the various lists of settlers in Reynolds' Pioneer History of Illinois (Belleville, 1852) is inevitable. The result is not very favorable to Reynolds, who is often mistaken in his dates and frequently in persons. On none of the lists of Americans do the following names appear: Robert Whitehead (Reynolds, 110), Kidd (p. in), Wm. Musick (p. 114) "the first schoolmaster" John Seeley and the Irish schoolmaster Halfpenny (p. 122), James Andrews, Joseph White, and Samuel McClure, who were killed by the Indians in 1786 (p. 123). This is not conclusive proof that these men were not in Illinois, for other men, who are known to have been in the country are not mentioned, but from this fact, taken in connection with the other numerous mis- takes, it is evident that Reynolds' statements must be accepted with great caution. - Uncle of Governor Bond. In his testimony before the Court in a trial, August, 1781, he said he was about thirty years of age, was a native of Virginia, and a laborer; that he had come to Illinois with Colonel Clark and since his discharge had been working for the inhabitants. (May Allinson, "A Trial Scene in Kaskaskia in 1781," Transactions of 111. State Hist. Society, 1906, p. 267.) He was often elected to the legislature of the Northwest territory and the territory of Indiana ana was at one time justice of the Court of Common Pleas of St. C'air Co. (Reynolds, Pioneer Hist, of Illinois, 90.) Reynolds says he came to Illinois in 1781 (p. 89). 8 In December, 1789, he was living at "Eagle River." III. Hist. Collections, ii., 433. 4 Nicholas Smith was one of the most prominent men at Belief on taine. In 1782 he was elected justice of the peace (see ante, p. 206), and in 1787 he took oath for the same office at Grand Ruisseau before the Cakohia Court. III. Hist. Collections, ii., 307, consult also Index. 8 James Piggott. See biog. note in vol.ii., 190, n. 1. 8 This must be Jacob Groot. See vol. il, Index. 7 Received grant of land at Grand Ruisseau from Cahokia Court on March 2, 1786. See vol. ii., 229, 331. 8 Reynolds says (p. 89) that he came to Illinois in 1781 and was one of Clark's soldiers. 9 Presumably children of John Allison. See vol. ii., 321, 327, 517. 10 James Moore was the leader of the Americans who settled at Bellefontaine. (See ante,p. 296.) Reynolds says (p. 90) that he came from Maryland, and that he was employed by Gabriel Cerré to trade with the Indians in Tennessee. He died in 1788. (See vol. ii., 349.) Several of his children moved to Missouri. Houck, Hist, of Mo., Index. » There is a biographical sketch of William Biggs in Reynolds, Pioneer Hist., 288, et seq.
Page 422
!22 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS John Vaher John Moore George Wavie Benjamin Byrun" Samuel Garrittson,s Benjamin Turner Elisha Vannatson Children 1781 William Moore James Moore Enoch Moore Milton Moore James Garrittson Hardy Ware Samuel Guise Daniel Raper Solomon Guise John Byrun Joseph Byrun Men Anno 1782 John Watts Robert Watts14 Tobias Brashers William Oglesbay Daniel Suits Peter Zipp Children 1782 John Densey Charles Watts Beltashazer Brashers Mens 1783 John Farral ■ James Marshel William Dove Thomas Winn John Suleven w Children 1783 John Suleven Men 1784 Alexander Dennies Elijah Smith Thomas Morgin Men 1785 Mason Lunefoard Robert Reddick William Shaney Ephrim Story Joseph Ogle17 Joseph Worley George Biggs James Henderson Benjamin Ogle Children 1785 Joseph Ogle 12 In his testimony before the Court in a trial, 1781, Benjamin Byrun said that he was twenty- eight ycars old, and was a native of New Castle [Pennsylvania?! and a protestant. He was a tailor by trade and had lived in Kaskaskia since spring. When asked for his passport, he could only show his discharge from the service and an oath of fidelity taken at Fort Pitt. AHinson, "Trial Scene in Kaskaskia in 1781," Transactions of 111. State Hist. Society, 1906, p. 167. » Samuel Garrittson was killed by the Indians in 1788, Reynolds, p. U3. 14 Biog. note on Robert Watts in vol. ii., 188, n. 1; see also p. 597. 15 John Farral was killed by the Indians in 1789. Reynolds, 134. 16 Possibly Captain John Sullivan, one of Clark's officers. 17 The first member of this family, that has been conspicuous in the annals of Illinois, to settle hère.
Page 423
LIST OF AMERICANS IN ILLINOIS, 1787 423 Jacob Ogle John Worley Joseph Worley Men 1786 Isaac West18 John Sloughter w George Attchison M Michel Huff21 Thomas Biggs William Murrey a Lawrence Hurd David Waddle» Samuel Morrison u Isaac Waddle Daniel Finane Barneby Mc. Clannen Robert Seybold Peter Casterland [Endorsement:] Tottle Mens Names William Baley Isaac Chalfin William Chalfin William Howe James Mc. Roberts Henry Mc. Gloughlen John Peters Franses Clark3* Johnson Amberson Children 1786 Alexander Attcheson George Attcheson Michel Attcheson Amos Chalfin Jese Waddle Allexander Waddle David Waddle James Waddle 62 Tottle Childrens Names 35 * See vol. ii., 293. 10One of Clark's soldiers, English, Conquest, ii., 1061. 30 Reynolds calls him one of Clark's soldiers, but his name is not on any of the lists. (See English, Conquest, ii., 1067.) He was in 1795 judge of the Court of Common Pleas and Quarter Sessions in St. Clair Co. May Allinson, "Government of Illinois, 1790-1799," in Transactions of the 111. Hist. Society, 1907, p. 290. 31 Michel Huff came from Monongahela Co., Pa. On the journey to Illinois Mrs. Huff and one of his stepsons were killed by the Indians. Later Huff met the same fate. Reynolds, in. "See ante, p. 7, n. 1. M Reynolds calls him a soldier under Clark, but his name is not on any of Clark's lists. English, Conquest, ii., 1067. 241 have been unable to determine the relation of this Samuel to the five Morrison brothers. One of the younger brothers was named Samuel, but he did not come to Illinois until 1807. Reynolds, •35- 25 Reynolds (p. 122) calls him a school teacher who came to Illinois three years earlier than the date given here. Several references to him will be found in the Cahokia Records Collections, ii.. Index.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 424
CHAPTER XII THE COMING OF COLONEL HARMAR AS TOLD BY A SMALL FACTION OF THE FRENCH, AUGUST, 1787 Father de la Valinière Writes of John Dodge — His Account of Tardiveau and Harmar— A Picture of the Tyranny of Dodge — Madame Bentley Petitions Congress — Langlois Writes Con- cerning Tardiveau's Mission. Father de la Valinière Writes of John Dodge, August 25, 1787. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviii., 19.—A. L. S.] 1st. by duplicata.1 ch. Thomson secrety. of the Hon. Congress. Sir, After the honour of your's dated Aug. 24. 1786 brought here by Mr. Parker, to which we have answered in thanking the honl. Congress, by the same Mr. Parker and Mr. Jones, we have been exposed to many troubles.2 As it is very long that the present country doth gemit under the op- pression We can but receive gladely whatsoever may come us under the auguste name of your honl. assemblée.' Now you may judge by the included papers how great has been and is still our oppression.4 The paper here included ily. sheweth our misery since the begining of our union with America, being a french Petition or complaint that was sent to the governor of Virginia, but the bearer M. M'carty has been killed in his way to the fall.5 1 There is in the same volume of C. C. Pp., p. 9, a paper marked "ad for the duplicata," which contains some interesting variants the most important of which will be noticed in the foot- notes. On the faction of the French party that was responsible for this and the two succeeding documents, see Illinois Hist. Collections, ii., p. 137. 2 Duplicate reads: "to which we have sent our thanksgiving by the same in company with Mr- Jones, we have been exposed to some troubles by the desire that we have for receiving the effect of your promise." 3 Dup.: "name of the united states in Congress." 'Dup.: "our danger, and vexation." 5 In the margin is written: "A Petition against Montgomery Rogers and Dodge." It is printed ante, p. 233. The duplicate omits this marginal note and the name of M'Carty. ^
Page 425
VALINIERE WRITES OF DODGE, AUGUST 25, 1787 425 2ly. follows the copy l of the orders given and signed by a named John Dodge the same mentioned in the above petition who instead of paying provisions for the soldiers, took prisoner (having no authority for it) one lieutenant of county call'd Richard Winston because the said Winston could prove easily that Mongommery, Roger, and Dodge were 3 Robers and thieves.2 In vain we had recourse to some generous men for informing the honorable Congress of our misery, we are still in the poorest condition where one may be in. Mr. la Balm mentioned in the above petition has been killed about the Miami river. The Major le Brun (on account of whom the said Dodge have prophetysed saying be certain he shall never bear the west coat that he asketh) has been also killed, at the back of the fall. But no body can deliver us from so surprising and bold a Rober as Dodge that man who has taken the fine property of the widow Bentley, against whom no justice dare return her her right.3 that man who after having taken also the old fort here where he dwelled till these past day's and which he deffendeth again by his farmer with two great guns, that man who has been bold enough as to send two American men Prisoners at the Spanish side.4 That man who striking many with his sword, drawing the eyes from the head of others That man who by his taking prisoner the cheaf of Magistrature has deprived us from all sort of justice.5 that men who, not only here but also at the Post Vincennes and at the fall by his letters or those of his friends, deceived many per- sons,6 that man, say I, whom we should rather call a Mounster did begin to weaken his authority not long after the coming of Mr. Parker when he brought us our above said honour.7 As we expected every day one governor and regulation from the Hone. 1 Dup.: "The ad and 3d are the copy." These orders are printed ante, pp. 272. 2 In the margin is written: "Betwixt the both orders is the petition of Margte Farkeson Winston's wife having recourse to the justice against Dodge." (Printed ante, p. 273.) Dup. reads: "took prisoner whithout [sic] authority a lieutenant of county called Richard Winston, lest he and the justice could force him to repair the damage he caused and causeth still especially to the Lady Bentley whose state and property he has kept since six years. The said Richard Winston, was authorized to say that three especially, officers, or pretended so, viz. Montgomery Roger and Dodge, was Robers, thieves etc. and he could prove it easily, but Dodge took him prisoner, and forced him to go for justice himself to Virginia where he died, too soon." 8 Dup.: "But we should be delivered from so surprising and bold a Rober. Viz. that badman who has taken the fine property of the widow Bentley (Who cannot obtain any justice against him)." *Dup.: "that man who sent the Capt. la Chance two Americans prisonnersat the Spanish side." 8Dup.adds: "since 5 years, in that village." 6 Dup.: "that man, who not only here did corrupt by his lies all the principal citizens but also at the post Vincennes and at the falls by letters." 7 Dup.: "the above said your honour dated August 24. was here is the fact." See ante, p. 391.
Page 426
426 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Congress we could but receive willingly one named M. Jone1 who came here for finding some Victuals for the service of Genl. Clark and his army.2 The said M Jones made a bargain with two young American Traders, buying some barils of wheat, for tho' he had no money, yet he has been received kindly entertained and everything he wanted, paid or cautioned by an honest man here call'd M. Edgar.3 but the above said Dodge on his hill and fort, excited the both young Americans to refuse the delivrance of the said wheat, saying, I'll deffend you, and furnish you, if necessary, 30 men to support you, wherefore when 20 carts were come to carry the said wheat, they could have nothing. Where upon The said Commissary Mr. Jones returned back to the Post, and brought from thence a party of soldiers with a regular cloth which we thought to have been sent us by the Congress, The officer Mr. Jones seemed a fine gentleman who caused no hurt to anybody, but he entered in the above said fort on the hill occupied by John Dodge, he threatned him to cast him out from it if he continued to be contrary to America, as he was before, he stood there some days with his troops, during which time the wheat has been deliverd peaceably and no body has been hurted. But the said John Dodge being affraid began to write the most abomin- able lyes every where: one of his letters being the duplicate of another which he sent, has been sent back to us, we have it in our hands and we'll shew it's falseness in a due time, there is no doubt, he has sent several of that kind to the fall upon the ohio, where his brother Israel Dodge is living; where was also a certain frenchman called M. Tardiveau, for that frenchman who speaketh easily the English language is come lately here with the Coll. Harmar 4 whom he inspired with sentiments very different from those which we could expect from a gentleman in his place. He deceived him in their way as he was deceived himself he made him stay, live, drink, and dwell only in the houses of the friends of Dodge, he accompanied him every where like his interpreter, but he could not shew I John Rice Jones: Born in Wales, February 11, 1759; educated at Oxford, England; practiced law in London^ February, 1784, came to America and settled in Philadelphia; came West in 1786, and was commissary in Clark's expedition of 1786; 1789, in Kaskaskia; 1801, settled in Vincennes and dealt extensively in land; 1801, attorney-general for territory; 1804-1808, member of council of Indiana territory for Knox Co.; 1808, removed to Kaskaskia; 1810, emigrated to Missouri, finally settling in Potosi, where he engaged in mining operations with Moses Austin; he held important offices in Missouri; February 1, 1824, he died. See Jones, "John Rice Jones," in Chi. Hist.Society's Col- lections, iv., 230. 2 Dup.: "for some troops, which general Clark had brought to the Post Vincennes." This refers to the expedition against the Indians made by the Kentuckians under Clark in 1786. 3 Dup. does not mention the name. 4 Colonel Harmar's account of his journey to Illinois is printed in Smith, SI. Clair Papers, ii., 32.
Page 426
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page 426
42f. IU.i\".S 1m....~1t VL COLLECTIONS Congress we <. i'.u 1'.'t • oi-i here for ùu'L.r^ scwi? \ i- t.i i army.2 T he said M )..tt- Trader? L.'.ying wo.r '•- has «'•-il rect ! • .....I I., . v -. •• • t ! - . . .. Ir.'i: ''•' to h.j- / . fine get.tu-r. abore sri t '. cast hi .' uat before. ho "'. -ty one named M. Jonp1 who r.. '. \:-r ffn':f of 'Gen!. Cla;k an'! 1 a ! .rv;j.in with two youn« Ameri, •.• tor tho' he had no money, yet ! .• . *i-.d frerrthing he wanted, paic! i "V V». blgar.' !,t t the above s I ,rh young A t.. n-aus to re; I'll dtfftn.i y.'U, and fu- » 'is-'r.l' -.t :*-hcn 20 cart ..i. . ,-.•,!'' • Where u: •I hack to t!> !' -• . , ..: a regular dot,' .' -• h iesj, The otVue - Mi. Jones s .-. a rt to anybod;. . 1 he entere; jjiied by John />- -- he threatn- ntuedtobei 'i to America,

the .>y.> ^fcUs^W'^ But the ka:! 1: able lyes ci- which he • shew it'.- f of thn I! liv-v' - • th.-t' . 83Wr?t:iabYit!Vn()L ".during' one o! -i ; .-1 1 -• --' iuri -: to! upon Cm' » 1- also a cert.c w ho 5|>e;''-;i 1 h 1 • 1 ..!1. Ha' , - J t |î< . -C V' . 1 '-. :ia\e it in <r r • f is uo doubt -x- • .-. here his bn,:. . • |'':-< hnnt! < ;'M, I -i-v 1he En^ '.-.h 1 'run he inspire-l w ' L i'il expect from a uTti' [1 'l hiTn tt. -. ••• ririt », ;.• • a, ^.t:.;!'attied h \ .1-, he was deceived h:f:i-c !'-' in the houses of th<''Vc - m'v i ».( his 'uteipreter, but hi. ,' 1 'hn !'•.-' I n law 'ti Lopo in ,*../ -. anil nt- c*nr .-'.-- . m i' arnl <trait - '«y in 11 of IndiuM tertt. irv I-a K~ • '. W t^.T'- *.a.T 11, M-'ca;rd at Oxfn'' - *4. -' * • '<ivr' u:- «*"id m l**e!.idetph!i 1'. ''i .'re* Jt oh *: i74e. n Xj L-wajj; 1 '. i£ci. H \-«e:.-T! - iy; iS/-v,-i'. - Co; :** «ti»* * [ .. K !. '* to, fmiji . srttltn^ tn Pot.e-t. w'iptp I» in rnniii.^ upTa i.'i^ tvi:h *i-m> Vus'i. : 'i * in Mt* ouri; Krbruary I, irtaj, ov <Iiv'J. Sec Jon-^, Jonr. Ki*.< Ji-ne-, in ' • lecc*..«'. IV., 230. 2 Uup: "o. v-'nr t-ew-r^.. whirh ^cp-t;(1 CUrk h.u! brrw:^hi to the Pi^t Yin..<- to the cxpedit'-ni if ittt't ihe In-tuns niu-te hy the K.i ntucciam und<r Clai I- i » Dup. d'** ni.t mention tiie nanie. 4 C-Jonct llarnar's uuouni of to - lourney to Itttnois is priated in Smith
This page contains an image.
Page 426
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page 426
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page 427
VALINIERE WRITES OF DODGE, AUGUST 25, 1787 427 him the truth1 being himself very ignorant of it, and he gave allways an evil idea to^very word proceeding from those whom Dodge thought be his enemies, insomuch the Colonel being asked by the lady and widow Bentley to stop John Dodge who was come from the Spanish side where the fear of justice made him flee, it is not long; The Colonel has refused and prefered to drink day and night with the said Dodge himself. Besides The Col Harmar seemeth to condamn the General Clarks' regiment or rather the good people here for having receiv'd 'em, saying, they had no order to come here, and in the same time the said Col. did not shew us any order himself for doing the same as they did. he saith only for his deffense, Don't you know the uniform of the Congress, but we are not obliged to know it, every body could do the same and we are too far, from the other states, where at the contrary the Clarks Regiment has been once known here when he has taken that country.2 But Mr. Tardiveau [insert] Now the common noise is that Mr. Tardiveau the friend of Dodge is in the Post asking from every American newly established 500 pounds of beaver to obtain from the hon1 Congress an assurance for 500 acres to every male among their children for which they passed him a bill of promise.8 willing to excite the anger of the Colo- nel against the public Register4 here, because he is not friend with John Dodge, told the said Coll that Mr. Langlois would not receive another regulation having that which Mr. Todd brought us from Virginia5 but it was not true, wherefore Mr. Langlois did pray me to accompany him and to be his interpreter; he spoke then so, to the colonel We desire and expect every day one regulation from the honl Congress but now till it may come, having none, we did by a common consent aggree to keep the same brought by Mr. Todd, till the other may come, And Mr Tardiveau would do better to deceive not others as he is deceived himself. After ward the same Mr. Langlois having shewn the above said proofs against John Dodge who was present, the said Dodge, was so much angry that in the presence of the Lieutenant Makidoul6 with several others 1 Dup.: "denying him the truth." 2 Dup.: "but we are not obliged to know that uniform being so far from the other states, and the other that is to say the Clark's regiment who took this country before in the name of the congress of Virginia was very much better known here than he." 'Dup.: From the word "Insert" to "bill of promise" is omitted. Evidently this insertion has been made in the wrong place. *Dup.: inserts, "called Mr. Langlois." 5 Dup.: would have no other regulation but that which formerly Mr. Todd had brought from Virginia.'r • Ensign McDowell. The duplicate omits the name.
Page 428
428 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS in the yard he did cast himself upon the said Mr. Langlois and putting his fingers in his eyes and hair he would have made him blind, if the offi- cer had not cryed against him. Where upon the said langlois and I, have asked the colonel, to stop the said John Dodge, and upon his refusal, I took for witnesses all the person who were present. But Dodge, being assured of the protection of the colonel, triumphed so much that the day following after the depart of the Colonel, he assembled his friends to rejoice on his hill and in his fort, and fyred four time each of his great canons, beating the Drums etc.1 Now I think I have satisfied to my duty for the deffense of the widows, orphans, and innocents against guilty I hope the hon1 congress will be so good as to send us some sober man, who be not easy to be surprised, having no regard, but for the writen proofs to know the truth, and especially avoiding the adulators, and consulting the public Registry etc: as did already that honl. assemblée.' So with all the good people here I will offer willingly my vows and sacrifices for the blessing of the united states forever, being with the utmost respect, Sir, of you and the hone. Congress. Kaska[s]kias Aug. 25 The most humble and respectfull servant 1787.3 Peter Huetde la Valiniere Minister of the gospel, Priest and general Vicar.4 Let me humbly beseech also the honorable congress to grant me the interest of my note, writen on the Register's office January 28. 1786. the principal that is due to me is one thousand seven hundred dollars, bearing interest at six per cent from the 19. August 1782.6 De la Valiniere priest I forgot the most horrid payment occasioned the 14 June 1784. by John Dodge, to a Trader named Daniel Murray8 to whom John Dodge was indebted, instead of paying him his due, he quarelled him, and said to his associate in trade Mr. Timothée Mombrun who was chief justice or lieut of county, saying, that man will kill me give order to take him prisoner. w[hi]ch order being granted. John Dodge himself with the 1 Dup.: "fired his 2 great guns 4 times every one." 2 Duplicate omits: "and consulting the public Registry etc: as did already that honl. assemblée.'' 8 Duplicate omits the date. 4 On Valiniere, Introduction; for Tardiveau's answer, see post, p. 451. 5 This probably refers to a petition to Congress for recompense for losses suffered in various ways. See Amer. Cath. Hist. Researches, New Scr.t ii., No. 3, p. 216. 0 See ante, p. 359, n. 2.
Page 429
INFORMATION CONCERNING ILLINOIS, 1787 429 capt. la chance and a party of men brocke the door where Daniel Murray was dwelling and threatning them to shot his gun if any body would break his door, which he did without wounding any body, but the capn ordered to fire, now the arm of Daniel Murray has been brocken, w[hi]ch caused his death, and so has been paid the debt of John Dodge.1 Some among the Dodge's friends are here in the same case. [Endorsed:] De la Valiniere 25 Augt. 1787. Information Concerning Illinois, 1787. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviii., 13.—A. D.] An abbreviated information of the present Kaska[s]kias Condition and the Caracter of the French Citizen's who are there.2 The French inhabitants that is to say, an handful of hunters, being accustomed to the French Governement instead of commanding the military power that was come to protect them, shewed to them so much slavery and dependency, that the said troops not long after their taking possession of the said country, abused their power, as it appears by the petition addressed to the Governor of Virginia May. 4. 1781." But seing they could not give any information of their unfortunate condition and consequently obtain any redress, they began the most shamefull slavery, by flattering their Tyrant4 and serving him in the most humili- ating manner, he has stroke some with his cane, some other with the flat side of his sword: some have been put in prison by him, some other have had their own eyes almost drawn out of their head by his own hands: yet they serve him now very willingly and expose not only their reputation but also their life to obey to his orders. The affair of Daniel Murray, (that is so clear upon the public Registry) may prove it for instead of employing their justice or Magistracy to order master Dodge to pay what he owed to that Trader They at the contrary accompanied him braking the door of that poor man, and upon the deffending of his house, prop- erty, and life, they fired on him, broke his arm and caused his death, furthermore taking his property they ordered to sell it by auction to pay 1 This last postscript concerning Murray is omitted in the duplicate. For the report of the trial of the case by De Monbreun, see ante, p. 359. 3 This is the same handwriting as the preceding and evidently comes from Valiniere, although the English style shows a hand more skilled in the language. 1 Printed ante, p. 233. 1 John Dodge.
Page 430
43o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS a named wilkough1 (who accorded with Dodge) tho the said Dodge had promised before to pay him on the account of his own debt toward the said Murray. sly. They and especially the capt. la Chance (whose son before had been put in prison by Dodge himself for having presented an humble petition for redress) with a party of men, brought prisoner to the Spanish side two American men, and that only by Dodge's order. 3ly. They refused to hearken the petition of Made. Bentley for returning her all her property, which Mr Dodge has taken and enjoieth it since at least 6 years, viz. land, slaves, house, papers, money and furni- tures of all sort, further more They, that is to say, the principal of the city, after having drank often time with the said Dodge, did offer her, (Mad. Bentley) in his name sometime one negro man, sometime a negro woman, sometime one pair of oxes provided she would give him a renunciation of her right.' But at last seing there is some appearance to receive by and by some redress from the honl. Congress, by the letter brought here by M Parker,' dated Aug. 24. 1786, and a certain officer Mr. Jones, a lieutenant of the Colo. Clark's regiment, who had been invited by the citizens of Post Vincennes to deffend them against the indians being come with a party of soldiers and having taken the old fort (where dwelled Mr. Dodge with two great guns upon a hill that threatneth our village), Tho' he caused him no hurt and left him some days after with a promise only to come again by and by, determined the said Tyrant (Dodge) to pass, with all the property he has robbed, to the Spanish side. Now all the principal Citizens accompanied him with their musket firing several discharges at his honour etc. How be it, the said John Dodge in the name of the principal Citizens, saith he himself, wrote letters everywhere full of lyes, one of which has been sent back here from the Post to a Zealous American named Edgar, whom he diffameth in that letter. Wherefore there is no surprising a thing, if a named Mr. Tardi- veau a french man who was about the fall in the oyo with the Dodge's brother and formerly his great friend has been deceived and has deceived also the Col. Harmar, so much as to prevent him against all those who 1 WikufT, of the firm of Clark and Wikoff. The record of their suit against Murray is printed anU, p. 359. »See^»j<, pp. 431, 433. 3 See ante, p. 391, and pest, p. 449.
Page 431
MADAME BENTLEY'S PETITION, AUGUST 31, 1787 431 could shew him the truth, and especially the Public Register who keeps all above said proofs and many other by the order of the justice, who returned difference sentences upon it that is to say made many suit of law concerning all that. The said M. Tardiveau (after one declaration by the Col. Harmar to all the Americans here for preparing them all to go out from their lands belonging to the Congress) has offer'd to the said Americans settled here at Kaska[s]kias in the number of more than hundred to assure them a title of their land and especially for 400 acres to each male, provided they give him the tenth acre each of the said land, which they granted and passed a bill to assure it. [Endorsed:] Information of the present Kaskaskias and character of french citizens there Madame Bentley Petitions Congress, August 31, 1787. [C. C. Pp., xlviii., 15.—Copy.] Copie d'une Requête déposés au g'rêffe des Kaskakias par Made Bentley contre j. Dodge qu'elle prie d'adresser au très hone Congres, ce 31 Août 1787 La Suppliante Marguerite Beauvais veuve Thomas Bentley, après s'être vue privée de ses biens depuis plus de six ans par un nommé john Dodge, lequel sans montrer aucun dite ou écrit de la part du Sr Th. Bentley, mais assurant faussement avoir fait avec led1 Sr Bentley, un échange, savoir, des biens propres appartinant, tant au Sr Bentley qu'a la suppliante son épouse, en consequence la Susd*6 Margte Beauvais [Translation.] Copy of a petition against J. Dodge, deposited at the office of the clerk of Kaskaskia by Madame Bentley, which she prays to have ad- dressed to the Honorable Congress, August 31, 1787. The suppliant, Marguerite Bauvais, widow of Thomas Bentley, after seeing herself deprived of her possessions for more than six years by one named John Dodge, who has shown no written authority on the part of M. Thomas Bentley, but has falsely asserted that he made with the said M. Bentley an exchange, to wit, of personal property belonging no more to M. Bentley than to the suppliant his wife, and because the above mentioned Marguerite Bauvais, wife of Thomas Bentley, has
This page contains an image.
Page 432
432 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS épouse de Th. Bentley a attendu avec patience jusqu'à ce qu'elle put recevoir des nouvelles de son d* mary de la mort duquel elle n'a pu avoir aucune certitude qu'en ce moment ou elle prend la liberté d'im- plorer votre protection pour obtenir justice. Non seulement la crainte de vous importuner, mais encore plus nat- urellement l'humiliation ou se trouve la supliant vue l'occupation qu'on les intente vous auroit certainement évité cette peine, si lesusd* j. Dodge pour éviter la justice que nous attendons, ne se fut reffugié dans la partie d'Espagne et n'eut emmené avec lui une négresse cette négresse est reve- nue chez sa appartenante a la susdte suppliante avec tout ce qu'il a pu emporter des biens appartenants aud* deffunt Th. Bentley. Ors la suppliante requête qu'il lui soit permis de Demander au susd* j. Dodge (lequel vient de faire afficher ici un papier diffamatoire tant contre elle que contre les personnes charitable lesquells il croit lui rendre quelque service) en vertu de quoi, ime au lieu de partir du testamens qu'il mentionne aujourd 'hui il n'a allégué quun échange probablement faux quand il s'est emparé des susd1 biens de deffunt Icabob Camp et at il [Translation.] patiently waited until she could receive some news of her husband's death of which she has had no certainty until this moment, when she takes the liberty to claim your protection to obtain justice. Not only the fear of importuning you but what is even more natural, the humiliation in which the suppliant finds herself, seeing that the at- tachaient of Dodge's property, which was planned, would have certainly spared you this trouble, if the above mentioned J. Dodge, in order to avoid the court of justice which we are expecting, had not taken refuge on the Spanish side, and, if he had not taken with him a negress — this negress has corne back to her house — belonging to the aforesaid sup- pliant together with ail the possessions belonging to the late Thomas Bentley, which he could take with him. Now the suppliant prays that she be permitted to make her claim upon the aforesaid J. Dodge (who has just caused a defamatory paper1 to be posted here not only against her but also against charitable persons who he thinks are rendering her some service) in virtue of the following: ist. Instead of resting his rights on the will which he mentions to- day, he allèges only an exchange, probably false, at the time that he 1 Printed ante, p. 397. ,
Page 433
MADAME BENTLEY'S PETITION, AUGUST 31, 1787 433 voulu en faire autant chez le Sr P. l'Anglois notaire et Grêffier des Cas? 3nt Pourquoi led* Dodge au lieu d'obéir aux ordres du Lieutenant de Comte en datte de 7 février 1787 pour rendre a la suppliante tous ses droits, ou bien montrer quelque papiers en vertu desquels il les retenoit enfin pour donner caution s'il passoit en peï étranger, il n'a fait ni l'un ni l'autre, mais au contraire a fait partir son bagage et une négresse qu'il a enlevée le soir, offrant d'emmener la mulâtresse qu'il ose encor reclamer, environ 2 heures avant jour. 4nt Pourquoi led' Dodge at'il offert a la suppliante, tantôt un nègre, tantôt une négresse, tantôt une pair de boeufs, mais toujours a condition qu'elle lui donneroit une quittance generalle et qu'elle renoncerait a tous les droits; lui qui ose dire aujourd'hui dans son insolente affiche qu'il ne lui revient qu'une piastre? Apres que led* j. Dodge aura repondu, si néanmoins il le peut a toutes ces 4. demandes, il ne sera pas difficil a lad1 dame veuve Bentley de lui prouver que ce ne sont pas les autres qui se mêlent des affaires d'autres, [Translation.] took possession of the goods of the late Icabod Camp and he wished to do the same thing with M. P. Langlois, notary and clerk of Kaskaskia. 3rd.* Why did the above mentioned Dodge, instead of obeying the orders of the lieutenant of the county, dated February 7, 1787, toreturn to the suppliant ail her rights or else to show some papers in virtue of which he was retaining them, or else to give security in case he were to pass into another country, do neither the one nor the other; but on the contrary about two hours before daybreak he sent across his baggage and a negress, whom he kidnapped that evening, offering at the same time to run off with the mulatto woman whom he still dares to claim? 4th. Why did the said J. Dodge offer the suppliant now a negro, now a negress, now a pair of oxen, but always on condition that she would give him a receipt in gênerai and that she would renounce ail her rights; he who dares to say to-day in his insulting notice that only a single piastre is coming to her? After the said J. Dodge shall have answered ail thèse four complaints, if he can, it will not be difficult for the said widow, Madame Bentley, to prove to him that it is not other people who are meddling with the affairs 1 No. 2, missing.
This page contains an image.
Page 434
434 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS encor moins pour faire des injustices mais bien lui même elle lui fera voir que toute affaire entre son mary et elle ne le regarde en aucune manière que si sond* mary a eu quelque sujet de mécontentement, il a du agir d'une manière juridique et faire un Divorce en forme: or il seroit difficil aud* john Dodge de prouver qu'il en ait fait puisqu'il ne l'a jamais traduit en justice, il est donc probable que sond* mary lui a par- donné les difficultés qu'ils auroient pu avoir ensemble. Que si toutefois dans un moment de vivante sond* mary a pu écrire quelque chose a ce contraire, cela n'étant point juridique ne peut pre- judicier a ses droits et qui que ce soit selon les lois n'a pu et ne peut agir en forme dans un tel cas que lui ajouter a cela que s'il etoit permi a chaque particulier ou a ses procureurs pour la moindre difficulté de déshériter et priver de ses droits sur un manuscrit une épouse ou des enfans, a com- bien d'inconveniens chacun ne seroit-il pas exposé dans toutes les familles? Concluons delà sur quel principe led* jh Dodge a pu sans aucune formalité de justice s'emparer, jouir et enlever furtivement, après [Translation.] of some people and much less doing them injustice, but that he himself is doing so. She will show him that the whole affair between her and her husband concerns him in no way, and that, if her said husband had any cause for discontent, he ought to have acted in a legal manner and brought a divorce in due form. Now it would be difficult for the said J. Dodge to prove that her husband brought a suit for divorce. Since he never brought the matter into court, it is therefore probable that her late husband pardoned her for the misunderstandings that they may have had. That if, nevertheless, in one moment of his lifetime her husband might have written something contrary to this, since such a document is not legal, it cannot prejudice her interests and no one can or could act formally and according to law in such a case. [It should be] added to this[,moreover,] that if it were permitted every individual, or his attorney, on account of the least misunderstanding to disinherit and to deprive of her rights a wife and children by means of a piece of paper, to how many wrongs would not each one in every family be exposed? Our conclusion asks this: By what principle has the said John Dodge been able, without any formality of justice, to take possession,
This page contains an image.
Page 435
MADAME BENTLEY'S PETITION, AUGUST 31, 1787 435 deffense a lui faite en bonne forme, les biens esclave &c. appartenants a ladte veuve suppliante. En conséquence la susdte veuve suppliante, sur la bonté que 1 'hone Congrès a eu de vouloir bien prendre en considération un plan de gouv- ernement sur ce peï; et ne pouvant obtenu ici aucune justice, ose se flatter que par votre authorité led* john Dodge, sera contraint de lui remettre cequ'il a emporté, 2™ les 2o,ooou de Douaire portés par son contract de mariage 3me io.ooo11 également y portés pour son preciput 4me tout ceque led' Sr th. Bentley son mary a reconnu par la quittance portée au greffe avoir reçu du Tuteur deladte dame Bentley, laquelle etoit mineure quand il l'a épouse, si que ladte dame sans attendre les 40 jours que la loi lui accorde pour faire faire invantaire des biens de son deffunt mary, ne voit pas jour a y réussir en conséquence elle préfère de renoncer comme elle renonce effectivement par cette présente a la communauté avec sond* mary s'en tenant a ses droits mentionés cy dessus, pour seureté desquels elle supplie humblement l'hone congrès de vouloir bien [Translation.] to enjoy, and to kidnap by stealth, after he had been forbidden to do so in due form, the possessions, slaves etc., belonging to the said widow who is the suppliant? In conséquence, the aforesaid widow as suppliant, because of the kindness that the honorable Congress has had in wishing to take into considération a plan of government for this country, and because she has been unable to obtain justice here, trusts that by your authority the said J. Dodge will be constrained to return to her that which he has taken from her; 2d. the 20,000 livres of dowry conveyed by her contract of marriage; 3d. 10,000 livres likewise conveyed thereby for her jointure; 4th. ail that which the said M. Thomas Bentley, her husband, acknowl- edged by the receipt, left at the office of the clerk, that he had received from the guardian of the abovementioned Mrs. Bentley, who was not of âge when he (Bentley) married her. Although the said lady had no opportunity of having an inventory of the possessions of her late husband made within the forty days that the law allows her,1 yet she prefers to renounce, as she in truth does renounce by thèse présents, the community of property with her husband, retaining her rights mentioned above, for the security of which she most humbly prays the honorable 1 The meaning of the passage is very obscure, and the above prétends to be nothing more than a possible interprétation.
Page 436
436 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS envoyer ordre a la justice d'ici, de faire arrêter le susd* j. Dodge en cas qu'il paroisse sur cette rive, de peur qu'il ne prenne la fuite de l'espagne, comme il a fait d'ici pour eviter la justice. Le colonel Harmar qui a bu, mangé, et couché avec ce malheureux coquin (bien des raisons peuvent excuser cette expression) m'a refusé cette grace, mais j'espere que votre hone assemblée l'accordera a [last line eut qff] [Endorsed :] Petition of Madme Bentley agt. Jno. Dodge French Petition of Made Bentley against John Dodge who has taken her property and enjoieth it [blank] years. [Translation.] Congress to consent to send orders to the court of justice here, to have the aforesaid J. Dodge arrested, in case he should appear on this shore, for fear he may flee from the Spanish territory as he did from here in order to escape justice. Colonel Harmar, who haseaten, drunk, and slept with this wretched rascal (there are many reasons why this expression can be excused) refused me this favor, but I trust that your worthy Assembly will grant it to [last line cut of}.] Pierre Langlois to Charles Thompson, September 28, 1787. [C. C. Pp., xlviii., 89.—A. L. S.] au KasKasKias le 28e 7bre 1787 M. ch. Thomson Secretair de 1 'hr Congrés. Monsieur, L'honorable Congrés ayant eu la bonté de nous prendre sous sa pro- tection. Nous croyons — qu'il va de notre devoir d'empecher que cette [Translation.] Kaskaskia, Sept 28, 1787. M. Charles Thomson. Secretary of the Honorable Congress. Sir: Since the honourable Congress has had the kindness to take us under its protection, we think that it is our duty to prevent this august assembly "S
This page contains an image.
Page 437
LANGLOIS TO THOMPSON, SEPTEMBER 28, 1787 437 auguste assemblée ne soit mal informé par ceux qui ont été pour la plu- part aussi opposé au bien public qu'attachés a leur bien propre. Nous venons d'apprendre qu'un certain chevalier errant nomé Bar- thelemi tardivau ainsy que son ami John Doge, ne cesse d'inquiéter icy les esprists se faisans passer pour un homme de conséquence, quoi qu'il ait dit hautement que La lêtre que vous nous avez addressée en datte du 24. aoust 1786. n'est pas du Congrès Mais seulement du secré- taire et fait Entendre par La qu'on ne doit pas y faire beaucoup d'atten- tion, cependant, il ne laisse pas, avec son ami Dodge, de persuader, quel- que fois que Le congrès va nous charger d'impôts d'autre fois il inspire à ceux quil peut Le dessein de demander au Congrès 500. arpens de terre gratis pour chaque enfant maie faisant espérer qu'il leur en attiendra Les titres pourvu qu'ils lui endonnent La dixième partie. Ce qu'il y a de plus ridicule, C'est que dans la requête qui se porte de maison en Maison pour mandier des signature de la part de ceux qui ne peuvent déjà pas faire valoir le peu de terre qu'ils ont, ils sont assés effrontés pour faire entendre que Les Extraits de nos registres et autres informa- [Translation.] from being misinformed by those who have been for the most part opposed to the public welfare and attached to theirown personal interests. We have just learned that a certain knight errant, named Barthelemi Tardiveau, as well as his friend, John Dodge, does not cease to disturb the public mind here by passing himself off for a man of conséquence. Although he said publicly that the letter you addressed to us, dated August 24,1786,1 is not from Congress, but only from the secretary, and he makes people believe by that that they need not pay much attention to it; nevertheless, he does not cease, along with his friend Dodge, from persuading people at times that Congress is going to charge taxes on us; and at other times he inspires those whom he is able to reach with the thought of claiming from Congress 500 arpents of land gratis for each maie child, making people believe that he will procure the titles for them, provided they give him the tenth part. What makes this the more ridiculous is, that in the pétition which is being taken from house to house to beg for signatures from those who even now cannot make the little land they own amount to anything, they have the impudence to make people believe that the certificates of registry and other information 1 See anU, p. 391.
This page contains an image.
Page 438
438 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS tions avons envoyés cy devant ne doivent pas être Ecoutés vu, disent-ils, qu'ils ne sont pas signés par Les Magistrats de ce lieu. pour bien Comprendre La foiblesse de leur esprit en cet article, il faut noter. ie quile ne se souviennent pas plus de leur signature de ce tems la, que de celle quils ont donné en leur Requêtte Contre john dodge Le 4e may 1781. puisqu'apres L'avoir reconnu Comme un Coquin, ils lui font aujourdhui L'accueill qu'on fait au plus parfait honnette homme. Nous ne finirions pas si nous voulions donner une Connoissance entierre de leurs fautes — maintenant sur 71. vrai tenanciers ou sedan- taire en ce vilage n'en ayant pu séduire pour présenter La requête en question que 21. n'est-ce pas une chose indigne de la Magistrature et même d'un honête homme de faire paroitre la signature de plus 80. y compris leurs enfans nouveau nés ainsy que des étrangers qui s'en retournent en Canada, ne pouroit-on pas Croire que C'est tout le peuple des KasKasKias qui fait une demande si injuste? [Translation.] we have already sent, ought not to be heeded, inasmuch, they say, as they are not signed by the magistrates of this place. In order to appreciate the feebleness of the people's minds on this heading, it is necessary to note: ist. That they no more remember their signatures of this time than they do those they placed on their pétition against John Dodge, the fourth of May, 17811; for at that time they considered him a rascal, and to-day they receive him as the most honest man. We should never finish were we to give a complète account of their faults. Just now, out of 71 real tenants or settlers in this village, they have been able, for the purpose of presenting the pétition in question, to seduce only twenty-one.2 Is it not an unworthy thing for the magis- trates, as well as honorable men, to make a showing of more than eighty signatures, including in the list the names of new-born babes as well as strangers who are going back to Canada? Would not one be led to believe that it is ail the people of Kaskaskia who are making such an unjust demand? 1 See otite, p. 233. 2 On the paper in question, (see post, p. 440) there are fifty signatures of Frenchmen, including ail the prominent citizens. The name of Pierre Langlois is the only one of importance that is con- spicuous by its absence.
This page contains an image.
Page 439
LANGLOIS TO THOMPSON, SEPTEMBER 28, 1787 439 mais non: nous savons que les terres sont Les vrais fonds de L'état. Le sieu tardiveau vien au moment dacheter soit défaut de son amis john Dodge, une place qui a servi de fort dont Les terrasse sont toute faite, depuis que Le Roy de france lavoit établi pour La defense de la ville des KasKasKias, cest un manege entre sieu doge et M tardiveau, qui fait L'homme de Consequence enver Le Congrès et j'ai l'honneur destre. Monssire avec un profon Respecte Votre humble obéis* serv* Pre Langlois [Endorsed:] Letter 28 Septr 1787 P. Langlois with Translation respect- ing Kaskaskies Read Jany 22d 1788. Feby 5th 1787—Referred — Mr Wadsworth Mr Irvine Mr White [Translation.] But it is not so: we know that the lands are the real property of the state. M. Tardiveau has just bought, in the absence of his friend John Dodge, a place which has served as a fort1 and the embankments of which were all made, when the king of France established it for the defence of the village of Kaskaskia. This is an intrigue between M. Dodge and M. Tardiveau, who is acting as a man of importance with Congress. I have the honor to be, sir, with a profound respect, Your very humble and obedient servant, Pierre Langlois. 1 This was a fort on the bluffs above the village, which is called to-day incorrectly Fort Gage.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 440
CHAPTER XIII BARTHELEMI TARDIVEAU APPEALS TO THE CONTINENTAL CONGRESS, AUGUST, 1787, TO SEPTEMBER 17, 1788 The Contracts Made — The Case of the American and French Stated — Flint and Parker Petition for Land — Tardiveau Defends Himself — Persuasive Arguments — An Unfavorable Re- port — The Delay of the New Governor Will be Fatal — George Morgan Forms a Land Company — A More Favorable Report — Tardiveau not Satisfied — Congress Favors Morgan's Plan, but Makes Concessions to the French and Americans — Morgan Makes Further Demands — Alterations in the Bill of June 20 — Tardi- veau's Last Memorial — Some Lost Letters. Contract Between the French Inhabitants and Tardiveau, August 27, 1787 [M. C, T. MSS.— A. D. S.] Sachent tous par ces présentes que les habitans français du village des KasKasKias, La prairie du rocher, et leurs dépendances ayans appointé Barthélémy Tardiveau Ecuyer leur agent auprès du Congres, a l'effet de demander et obtenir pour eux la confirmation de leurs anciens droits, et en outre d'autres concessions de terres dans ce pays des Ill- inois, Nous Susdits habitans du village des KasKasKias, La prairie du rocher et leurs dépendances, promettons et nous obligeons jointement [Translation.] Know all men by these presents that the French inhabitants of the villages of Kaskaskia and Prairie du Rocher, and their dependencies, have appointed Barthelemi Tardiveau, Esq., their agent at Congress for the purpose of claiming and obtaining for them the confirmation of their ancient rights and also other grants of land in this country of the Il- linois; and that we the aforesaid inhabitants of the villages of Kaskas- kia and Prairie du Rocher, and their dependencies, promise and bind ourselves, jointly and severally, as well in our names as in behalf of our 440
Page 441
A CONTRACT, AUGUST 27, 1787 441 et Séparément, tant pour nous que pour nos enfants maies ou autres personnes que nous représentons, de céder, quitter, et abandonner en toute propriété audit Barthélémy Tardiveau, ses héritiers ou ayans-cause, la dixième partie de tous les terrains qu'il fera confirmer ou concéder en notre faveur, pour lui tenir lieu de ses peines et soins, fraix de voyages ou autres; a la condition que, S'il n'obtient rien, il n'aura rien a répéter vers nous pour ses dits fraix ou peines et Soins. Il est entendu que ledit Barthélémy Tardiveau ne pourra pas prendre la dixième des terres qui lui est accordée pour Son payment, sur les terrains déjà occupés ou qui appartiendront aux particuliers; mais que ledit dixième lui sera donné par les habitants dans un ou deux emplacements, faisant partie de la concession générale qu'il pourra obtenir; pourvu néanmoins que ledit ou lesdits deux emplacements soient a-peu-près égaux en quantité de terroir et de Situation au reste des terres ainsi obtenues. En foi dequoi Nous les Magistrats, et autres habitants du village des Kas- KasKias La prairie du rocher, et leurs dépendances avons signé le présent concordat et à icelui apposé le sceau de notre Cour, fait unani- mement aux KasKasKias le 27e jour d'Août l'an mil Sept cent quat- trevingt Sept. [Translation.] maie children and other persons whom we may represent, to cède, leave, and abandon in full propriety, to the said Barthelemi Tardiveau, his heirs or assigns, the tenth part of ail the lands which he shall cause to be confirmed or be conceded in our favor, as a compensation for his trouble and pain, traveling expenses and other expenses; on condition that, if he does not obtain anything, he shall have no right to demand anything from us for his said expenses, troubles, and cares. It is under- stood that the said Barthelemi Tardiveau shall not be able to take the tenth part of the lands, which is granted him for his pay, from the tracts already occupied or which shall belong to individuals, but that the said tenth part shall be given him by the inhabitants in one or two tracts within the gênerai concession which he shall obtain; provided, never- theless, that the said or the two said tracts be about equal in area, and in situation similar to the rest of the land thus obtained. In witness whereof we the magistrates and other inhabitants of the villages of Kas- kaskia and Prairie du Rocher, and their dependencies, have signed the présent agreement and placed thereon the seal of the Court. Done unanimously at Kaskaskia, August 27, 1787.1 1 For a similar contract made by the inhabiunts of Caholtia.scc ///. Hisl. Collections, ii. 591.
This page contains an image.
Page 442
442 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Janis J. S. G. Bauvais Vitale Bauvais Antoine Bauvais Blaise Barutel josepht tibaux Michel Danise Claude Lemieux Louis jervai Cham- berlan antoine Lachanse antoine pelthier PERRE P Chevallier françois tibot jaques perrier louis pillestè Baptiste janis Torton jacque Cheynie LaChanse L Brasaux josepht dosa Nicolas Canada Jean Bapt. Tomur Bapt. Felisse josepht devoux antoine peltier Jacques Gaussio gabrielle Lachanse Barbau Barbau fils Louis Dorré joseph terrier antoine Domingo joseph mendosa Antoine Atino ane buyat thimothe demonbrun fransoi Langdo antoine Cheyne Charleville Charle Delille Bte Lachance philipe devoux Bapt. delhxe fr. corset Louis deldlle At. Louvier G Decochy Aymé Comte Gerard Langlois Lasa blanier J. L. Atino Janis J. ST G. Bauvais Vitale Bauvais Antoine Bauvais Blaise Barutel Joseph Tu1aut Michel Danis Claude Lemieux Louis Gervais Cham- berlain Antoine Lachanse Antoine Pelletier, Sr. P. Chevallier François Tibault Jacques Perrier Louis Pilleste Baptiste Janis [Translation.] Torton Jacques Chenier LaChanse L. Brazeaux Joseph Dosa Nicolas Canada Jean Bapt. Thaumur Bapt. Felisse Joseph Devoux Antoine Pelletier Jacques Gaussiaux Gabrielle Lachanse Barbau Barbau, Jr. Louis Dorré Joseph Terrier Antoine Domingo Joseph Mendosa Antoine Atino Ant. Buyat Timothe de Mon- BREUN François Langdau Antoine Chenier Charleville Charles Delisle Bapt. Lachanse Philipe Devoux Bapt. Delisle Fr. Corset Louis Delisle At. Louvhcre G. de Cochy Aymé Comte Gerard Langlois Lasa Blanier J. L. Atino
Page 443
A CONTRACT, AUGUST 27, 1787 443 Nous Magistrats des KasKasKias avons signé le present concordat et a icelui apposé nos sceaux, afin que foi y Soit ajouté; aux KasKasKia le 27e jour d'août 1787 Antoine Bauvais (seal) Nicolas Caillot Lachanse (seal) Vitale Bauvais (seal) fr corset (seal) J S G. Bauvais (seal) L Brazaux (seal) [Translation.] We, the magistrates of Kaskaskias, have signed the present agree- ment and attached our seal thereunto, so that it may be made binding. Kaskaskia, August 27, 1787. Antoine Bauvais (seal) Nicolas Caillot Lachanse (seal) Vitale Bauvais (seal) Fr. Corset (seal) J. S. G. Bauvais (seal) L. Brazaux (seal) Contract Between the Americans and Tardiveau, August 27,1787. [M. C, T. MSS.— A. D. S.] Know all men that we, whose names are hereunto subscribed, hav- ing appointed you Bartholomew Tardiveau Esq our agent at Congress to the effect of petitioning and obtaining for us grants of lands in the Illinois country, do promise and bind ourselves, as well in our name as in behalf of our male children or other persons whom we may represent, jointly and severally to pay you, your heirs, executors, or assigns, the tenth part of all the lands that you shall or may so obtain for us; as a compensation for your pains, travelling expenses, and costs of attendance upon condition that, if you do not succeed in obtaining such gratuitous grants of lands, We shall not pay you anything for your said trouble. The tenth part of the lands obtained, which shall be your reward, is not to be divided from every particular tract, but laid off in tracts of the same extent with the rest, and you are to have an equal chance in drawing your share by the fate of a lottery. Done at KasKasKia this 27th day of August in the year of our Lord One thousand seven hundred and Eighty seven. We except from the lands given you in payment all & every improvement made by any one of us the day and year as above. John Anderson John Vallis Salvenes Casselman John Barten Learken Reather- Benjamin Byrun Ebenezer Severns ford George Waire
This page contains an image.
Page 444
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS David Guise Samuel Stephenson Wm. Smith josiah ryan Henry Smith Elijah Smith Joseph Stevenson Jimmy ORR John Porter Thos. Green Henry Green Christopher Smith John Cook MOSES B1GGER Thomas Hermon Hugh Mc D Chis- holm1 William Dury Clemment Dury Beff Dury James Scott Robert Watts2 James Watts Nicholas Smith James Moore John Leeper Benj. Davis John Moore George Atchison Michael Huff John Sloughter Thomas Clark Laurance Hurd James Henderson isaac Chalfin Peter Casterland Isaac Waddle Joseph Worley Samuel Worley Henry Levens James Bryent Able Barker Nathaniel Hull Ephraim Story Henry Golden John Ferrell Danlel Shultze Petter Zip Laurence Kenen Thomas Marrs Charles Ohara Samuel Kinked William Cheney William Oglesberry Elisha Vannatson Alexander Dinnis Thomas Morgan John Clark W. Cook Josiah Rundell Seth Rundell Joseph Cubidge James Curry Thomas Harmon Jacob Mores Iseuel Harmon John Doyle Robert Cochran John Porter Archibald MacNabb James MacNabb John Dodge George Biggs John Tailor Jos. Ogle Wm. Brown David Waddell Jessey Waddell Shadrach Bond Benjamin Turner John Marshel Henry Mclaughlin William Howe James McRoberts John Demsy William Dove Samuel Phyle Garet- SON Robert Seybold Jacob Groots George Wilkinson Charles Hood Robert Creighton Daniel Finane Barnaby Mcion Isaac C West Garland Kerr Charles Gill William Balky Robert Owen Layton White George Hendrick Johnson Amerson James Piggott Joseph Mason John Sulevan Phillips David Rog- ERS 1 Sec Index of III. Hist. Collections, ii. » Ibid, Index.
This page contains an image.
Page 444
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page 444
, V. toI,: , \\\.K1: . •. I . . s .. I.: - ï <* K . . I: i: riHT O'1' t:/ADlMHMA '-in P.XWnAY.inb iO :iMUi?.DA-i ,JAHV.l<l>IAT H/3JMHTM/H HIT// TU/.MT/OJ 411 I>.\\ ii> 1'- Wm. - 1 I
This page contains an image.
Page 444


S, - / r Z*~±t r o -r. -k x&m "M* .....JL-.. / f. ▼ -—;

. "?&t~ïL ...... .

Page 444
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page 445
A MEMORIAL, AUGUST 27, 1787 445 Thos. Biggs James Lemen1 Henry Foster Benjamin Ogle Samuel Borks Tho Hughes Wm. Biggs John Pemplin Tobias Brashers William Robins James Cincaid David Hagan Livig Thal James Willey Eusebius Bushnell Ezra Bushnell Benj. Rogers Thomas Win John Watts Robert Redrick John Peters Mason Luneford Samuel Morrison John Cochran Memorial in Favor of American Settlers by Barthelemi Tardiveau,2 August 27, 1787. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia., and Ky., xlv., 135.—A. D. S.] To the Honorable the Congress of the United States of North- America The Petition of the American inhabitants of the Illinois humble sheweth That, some time before the epocka that terminated a glorious war and secured indépendance to the sons of America, Your Petitioners, exhausted by military services and necessary contributions to the support of the Continental armies and other public charges, having nothing left but liberty and spirits that could neither be borne down under the weight of poverty nor deterred by difficulties, determined to seek an asylum into some of the rich countries which the fate of war had subjected to the American empire. The fame of the fruitfulness of the Illinois lands had reached our ears: thither we directed our wandering course, unmindful of a long and perilous navigation, of the inclemency of the seasons, of the savage fury of innumerable Indian tribes through whom we had to fight 1 James Lemen was a friend of Thomas Jefferson, and an ardent anti-slavery advocate. He came to Illinois in 1786, and settled at New Design. He was one of the leaders of the opposition to all attempts to legalize slavery in the Northwest. To promote the cause he was instrumental in estab- lishing the Bethel Baptist Church near Collinsville, which was dedicated to the cause he represented. An interesting account of him, written by his grandson, will appear in the Transactions of the 111. State Hist. Society, 1908. 2 These memorials of Barthelemi Tardiveau are not of much value as historical sources for con- ditions in Illinois, but do show, of course, his activities at Congress. The writer had never lived in Illinois and his only visit, as far as is known, was the one made with Colonel Harmar during the sum- mer of 1787. His information was drawn from the copies of the various documents furnished him by the French. These are published in this volume under the press mark "M. C, T. MSS." The history of this collection and biographical notice of Tardiveau may be found in III. Risl. Collections, ii., pp. 103, n.p.and 15a. Since writing the biographical notice, I have learned that Tardiveau died at New Madrid on, or a few days before, February 23. 1801. From the inventory of his property, he evidently lived well. Particularly interesting is the list of books in his library. The number of papers left by the deceased was very large, for those that were sent to Pierre Menard fM. C, T. MSS.) formed but a fraction ofthe whole. As far as is known the rest have been lost. New Madrid Archives (Mo. Hist. Society), viii., 246; Houck, Hist, of Missouri, ii., 144.
This page contains an image.
Page 446
/ 446 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONSour way. Invited to settle here by the ancient inhabitants, allured by the fertility of the soil, and above all encouraged by the hope that our settlements, made under the sanction of the State of Virginia, would be sacred and inattackable, we began to cultivate our lands with that un- wearied activity that the love of happiness inspires, but which is only fostered up by the certainty of enjoying property undisturbed. When Virginia ceded this country to Congress, by a Deed subscribed by their Delegates in March 1784, they stipulated in our behalf that the settlers who has professed themselves citizens of that state should have their possessions and claims confirmed to them; which was agreed to by Congress. Under these circumstances, Your Petitioners humbly con- ceive that the Proclamations of the Honorable the Congress, forbidding people to settle on the public lands on the North-Western side of the Ohio, are not in any sense applicable to them.1 We did not come hither in defiance to the laws of our country, but under the protection of the state of Virginia then Sovereign of this territory: we did not settle on the public unappropriated lands of Congress,but on those that were the prop- erty of Virginia, which she has since confirmed, and Congress them- selves warranted to us. We claim yet another title which, in our humble opinion, is not of less weight nor less respectable. An opinion has always prevailed in these countries that the french settlers have Charters for extensive tracts of territory; and within the compass as well as upon the faith of those charters we have settled ourselves. Such are the grounds on which we stand; but notwithstanding those titles which we have hitherto looked upon as sacred, a discouraging rumor is spread among us, which owes its birth to the Proclamations of Congress lately come to our knowledge, that all the American settlers on this side the Ohio are to be turned off their lands by the first of September next. This unex- pected piece of intelligence, we confess, did at first alarm not a little Your Petitioners; but after recollecting ourselves, trusting in the sacred- ness of the rights which we derive from the state of Virginia, and con- fiding in the justice of the Honorable the Congress, we are emboldened to hope that you will be pleased to confirm our possesssions by a solemn Deed, and further to take into your gracious consideration the peculiar circumstances of our hitherto precarious situation. When we began our settlements in this country, we found ourselves surrounded by a great number of Indian tribes whose hostile dispositions 1 Consult Smith, St. Clair Paptrs, ii., 3 el seq., 32. -
This page contains an image.
Page 447
A MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER 15, 1787 447 towards the Americans did not permit us to extend our culture and define properly the lands which we meant to occupy. Penned up in forts and small garrisons, we have been obliged to raise our subsistance out of a few fields tilled in common; and, after a severe struggle of many years, the greater number among us have not yet been able to ascertain and secure their possessions. In this difficult predicament, Your Peti- tioners humbly intreat that the Honorable the Congress be pleased to ascertain their unsettled situation, and confirm to them a Grant of five hundred acres of land for every male inhabitant, without any discrimina- tion of age, or else whatever quantity your wisdom may think proper. Should this appear to be too great a favour, We beg leave to observe to your Honorable body that this part of the country is almost entirely destitute of wood, and that this circumstance makes it necessary to have a larger extent of ground to answer the various purposes of husbandry. With a respectful confidence that the Honorable the Congress will not overlook our grounded expectations as claimants under the french Charters, our rights as settlers under the state of Virginia, and our suffer- ings as a wandering family, Your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray for the honor welfare and glory of the United-States of North- America. By order and in behalf of the American inhabitants of the Illinois Bartholomew Tardiveau Agent. Kaskaskia August the 27th 1787. [Endorsed:] No. 7 Memorial on Behalf of the French Inhabitants by Barthelemi Tardiveau, September 15, 1787. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviii., 119.— A. D. S.] To the Honorable the Congress of the United-States of North- America The Humble Petition of the french inhabitants of Kaskaskia, Caho- kia, Prairie du Rocher, and village St. Philipp Sheweth That the people of this country of the Illinois conceive themselves to be on the eve of total destruction, unless the justice, humanity, and benevolence of the Honorable the Congress hasten to rescue them from / _ J
This page contains an image.
Page 448
448 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS impending ruin, by timely taking into their gracious consideration the wretched state of this district. Placed at an immense distance from the seat of the foederal government of America, Your Petitioners have always lived in a dangerous Security concerning the lands which they were wont to consider as their own; and it is but of late that they have been awakened to fear and anxiety. We hear from all quarters that the Wabash and Illinois countries are offered for sale, and that large tracts of these territories have already been purchased.1 In a few months, perhaps, the whole will be disposed of; and Your Petitioners, whose ancestors made the first settlements here, and who have been faithfully attached to the United-States from the beginning of the late glorious Revolution, will find themselves contracted within the narrow bounds of the very inconsiderable improvements they have made in the vicinity of their villages. Soon, the industrious Americans will convert our forests into flourish- ing plantations: their furrows will reach to the fences'of our gardens: our peltry-trade, already much decayed, must be entirely annihilated by the rapid march of husbandry, the retreat of the Indian nations, and the flight of the wild game. This accelerated progress of tillage, we know, is infinitely more beneficial to mankind than the present unim- proved state of an extensive and rich country; and we do not wish to check, but to be permitted to partake with our neighbours and friends, the advantages of encouraged activity and industry. As original settlers, as faithful friends to the cause of indépendance, as an unhappy people who have lost their all by a system of oppression which we have fully dis- played in our Memorial, We beg, and humbly hope that the Honorable the Congress may be graciously pleased to Grant to every male inhabi- tant of these villages of Kaskaskia Cahokia, Prairie du Rocher, and St. Philipp, without any discrimination of age, a tract of five hundred acres of land, Gratis and for ever, in the vicinity of their respective villages. Full of the most respectful confidence in the equity and gener- osity of the Honorable the Congress, Your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray for the welfare, honor, and glory of the United-States of North-America. Kaskaskia September 15th 1787. By order and in behalf of the french inhabitants of the Illinois Bartholomew Tardiveau Agent. [Endorsed:] No 2 Sept. 15. 1787 1 See post, p. 44Q. , -
This page contains an image.
Page 449
INHABITANTS IN ILLINOIS, 1787 449 Number of Inhabitants in Illinois, 1787. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviu., 165.— A. D.] Enumeration of the Male inhabitants, french and Americans, of Poste Vincennes and the Illinois Poste Vincennes \' 1 Americans 103 I ... 1 french 101 Kaskaskia { y Americans uncertain I have two lists of the Americans in the Illinois, which are neither of them exact, and do not agree in the numbers and names. Prairie du Rocher french 79 Village St. Philipp Cahokia french 239 1132 Supposed number of the Americans in the different districts of Illinois 137 idem of the french of village St. Philipp 11 Total 12801 Petition for Land by Flint and Parker, October 18, 1787. [Reprinted from the Journal of Congress, xii., 150.*] The subscribers, for themselves and associates, with great humility, propose to the United States, to contract for the purchase of the two following tracts of land, viz. A tract of country, beginning at the junction of the little Wabash river, and running due west, sixty miles, thence due north, thirty miles, or to such distance, as a due east course will intersect the Wabash river, at the mouth of the White river, and continuing the same course, forty miles due east of the Wabash, thence due south, to the river Ohio, thence down the same, along the different courses thereof, to the mouth of Wabash, thence up the Wabash to the place of beginning at the mouth of the aforesaid little Wabash, so as to include two million of acres. 1 See census printed, ante, pp. 414 et seq. * For sufficiently obvious reasons I have reprinted from the Journals of Congress three documents relating to the subject of this chapter.
This page contains an image.
Page 450
450 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Also a tract of country beginning at Cape Au Gras, on the east bank of the Mississippi, and running due north sixty miles, thence due east fifty miles, or until this course intersects the Illinois river; thence due south sixty-five miles, or to such distance as a due west course will reach the Mississippi, at the south side of the mouth of Wood river; thence up the different courses of the Mississippi, including all the islands near the eastern side of it, to the place of beginning at the aforesaid cape of Au Gras, so as to include one million of acres. The terms of payment to be the same as agreed to by Congress on the application of John C. Symmes, of the 29th of August, 1787,1 with this exception, that in consideration of the proposers undertaking for themselves and associates, to make the necessary advances for the pur- chase of the Indian right of the said described tracts in the name and behalf, and under the authority and regulations of the United States, they shall have an allowance in the said contract of four complete town- ships, in full compensation of all their trouble and expenses on this account; and likewise that the payment of the first proportionate instal- ment shall only take place at the expiration of nine months after the purchase of the Indian right is effected, and notified to the United States in Congress. (Signed) Royal Flint, I for themselves Jos. Parker,1 ( and associates. New York, October 18, 1787. The board of treasury, to whom was referred the above proposal of Royal Flint and Joseph Parker, relative to the purchase of certain tracts of the western territory, report, That the said proposal is founded on the same principles as have been agreed to by Congress on the contracts of Messrs. Cutler and Sar- gent,' and Mr. John C. Symmes, with these exceptions, viz. That the proposers offer on their part, and on their own advance, (to be here- after compensated) to extinguish the Indian claim to the tracts which they propose to purchase; and that the proportionate instalments on the respective tracts should only be paid at nine months after the noti- fication of the said Indian purchase being completed. 1 See Amer. Slate Papers, Public Lands, i., 127. Although Flint and Parker entered into contract for these lands, no further steps were taken. lbii„ 20, 25. » On Joseph Parker see III. Hist. Collections, ii., cxzx.; also this volume, ante, pp. 381, 410; Smith, St. Clair Papers, ii., 3s. > For the Ohio Co.

This page contains an image.
Page 451
TARDIVEAU'S ANSWER, FEBRUARY 9, 1788 451 On the matter in reference, the board are of opinion, that if Congress should agree to the sale of the tracts described in the memorial, that it would be proper that the United States should extinguish the Indian claims to the said described tracts, should they exist. That it would be further proper that the first proportionate pay- ments on the respective tracts, should be made whenever the several contracts for the same should be completed, as in the case of other con- tracts; and that nothing in the said grants should affect any claims of individuals, which have been secured to them by the act of cession of the state of Virginia, or any act of Congress. October 22, 1787 Resolved, That Congress agree to the above report, and that it, together with the proposal of Royal Flint and Joseph Parker, be referred back to the board of treasury to take order. Barthelemi Tardiveau Answers his Accuser, February 9, 1788. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviii., 75.—A. D. S.] Sir, I take the liberty to address your Excellency on a Subject, which, tho' personal to myself, in the first instance, is so Closely connected with the interests of the people whom I have the honor to represent, that I think myself Justifiable in troubling your Excellency upon this occasion.1 The French and American Inhabitants of Post St. Vincent and the Illinois Country having unanimously chosen me for their Agent to Con- gress, I conceive it to be my duty not to enter upon the business on which I have been Delegated, untill I can previously convince that honorable Body that my Constituents have sent a Man, if not of abilities, at least of a fair & unblemish'd character. I have been so generally known in different parts of this Continent, for ten years past that I have resided in America without experiencing any personal reflections, that my feel- ings are wounded at finding myself, for the first time, under the necessity of vindicating my Character from a base assassination. Having been very little concern'd in the passions and pursuits of Mankind, I have always sought and, untill this day, found my Security against envy and malice in an upright conscience and under the Shield of the obscurity in 1 The copy, here reprinted, has been taken from the Amer. Catholic Hist. Researches, New Scries, ii., n. 3, p. 332.
Page 452
452 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS which, from inclination as well as from principle I have hitherto chosen to wrap myself up. But who can expect to furnish his career & flatter himself to escape to the end the Sting of calumny? Gentlemen, whose esteem it would be my greatest pride to deserve, have been pleas'd to inform me that Congress have received letters from Kaskaskia,1 in which some pains have been taken to represent me in a very disadvantageous light. Who the writers may be I neither wish nor care to know. The dark assassin I despise. But, Sir, after a tolerably long race " run" in the Paths of honor and integrity; after spending my whole life-time, not in the Pursuits of Pleasure or Interest, but in the acquisition of those Silent and obscure virtues which secure the esteem of all good men; to find myself Suddenly traduced by an invisible enemy; and much more, to be ignorant of the charges brought against my char- acter, this Sir, is truly a melancholy Situation, especially for one who has more Sensibility than intrigue and has never been hackeny'd in the ways of the world. Being therefore, reduced to the necessity of defending myself at random against attacks in the Dark, I can only take notice of two partic- ulars which the Gentlemen above mentioned have been generous enough to communicate to me. The unknown writer (unknown to me I mean) Asserts that I have made use of undue influence to procure a few Signatures to the Powers given me by the People in the Illinois Country, and that I have taken illiberal advantages of them in regard to the pay to be allowed me for my Services.2 Concerning this latter part of the accusation; will any Gentleman think that it was criminal in me to Stipulate a compensation for my expenses and the Sacrifice of my time and business? But, Sir, that there may not remain the shadow of a Suspicion that the People were either threaten'd or decoyed into any Compact with me, which might be dis- agreeable to themselves; and on the contrary, to put it beyond the Possibility of a Doubt that it was an Act of their free will and unanimous consent, I am willing to deposit into the hands of Congress the Contracts pass'd between us, and to depend altogether upon the Generosity and Gratitude of my Countrymen for my Salary. In the mean while let not any Interest of mine be prejudicial to those of my constituents. 1 See communications from Valinièrc and Langlois. ante, pp. 424, 436. 2 Sec contracts. ante, pp. 440, 443.
This page contains an image.
Page 453
TARDIVEAU'S ANSWER, FEBRUARY 9, 1788 453 If the Idea of emoluments being promis'd me were capable of retarding the effect of their Petitions, let that new Sacrifice be added to those I have already had the happiness to make to the well being of mankind. With respect to the former part of the charge I hope it will suffi- ciently appear, by the Credentials I shall have the honor to present to Congress, that the People were all unanimous in freely choosing me for their Agent; a few only at Kaskaskia excepted, who were under the influence of more than human Power. Give me leave, Sir, to lay before your Excellency Sundry other Papers which I expect will clearly shew what sort of a man he is whom I have good reasons to Suspect to be at the bottom of this mystery of Iniquity.1 His motives I perfectly well understand. A Religious Despot, who wishes to bear all before him in the name of the Deity, cou'd not but hate the only man, perhaps, in that whole Country who, he knew, wou'd never Stoop to kiss with rever- ential awe the Sacred Shackles in which he keeps all the rest of those unfortunate inhabitants.2 As to his Attempts at being ludicrous on my occasion, as that is but a weak screan from the Stings of conscience, I do from "my" Soul pity him. Would to God he were allways inclin'd to be merry, and that his passions were never of a Darker complexion! I shall not, Sir, pursue any farther this Justification of myself. The noble pride of a mind, far above the level of such creatures as this man and two or three of his vile adherents makes me already feel degraded in my own opinion, by the necessity I have been under of descending to vindicate myself against them. However, they shall not even be gratified in their expectations of raising in my breast the faintest emotion of resentment or anger: The only Sentiment they may expect from me is the utmost contempt. With the Greatest respect I have the honor to be Sir, Your Excel- lency's Most Obedient & Most Humble Servant B: Tardiveau. New York, Feby 9th 1788. His Excellency the President of Congress. [Endorsed:] Rec'd Feb. 12, 1788. Feb. 13 Referred. Mr. Wadsworth Mr. Irvine Mr. White 1 Tbis refers to the papers printed post, p. 548 et scq. 2 Judging from the translations of the ecclesiastical terms in the documents presented to Con- gress by Tardiveau, he was not a Catholic, since he shows ignorance of the Catholic nomenclature. See post, pp. 570, 574-

\
Page 454
454 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Memorial by Barthelemi Tardiveau, February 28, 1788. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviii., 209.— A. D. S.] To the Honorable the Congress of the United States of North America — The French inhabitants of Post Vincennes, Kaskaskia, Laprairie, Durocher, Cahokia and Village of St Phillip in the Illinois — Country, Humbly beg leave To submit to your consideration a summary account of their dis- tresses under the various changes which they have undergone, since they have become Subjects of the United States. Your Memorialists are deeply concerned in finding themselves under the necessity of recalling to their minds, and displaying to your view; a long series of misfortunes, borne by them with unparalleled patience, and of the most oppressive measures and wanton tyranny exercised without necessity, as well as without provocation, over an unresisting people whose submission to their Governors, even beyond the limits prescribed by the dictates of nature and the laws of Society, has always been remarkable, and indeed sometimes noted as Servility. When, soon after the beginning of the last war, the State of Virginia sent a Body of Troops to take possession of the Illinois and Wabash Countries, they met with a hearty welcome from the inhabitants who, having at a former period passed without their consent under a foreign yoke, remembered still that they were born Frenchmen, and rejoiced in the Opportunity of becoming one people with a Nation with whom their nearest relations at home were then connected by the bands of Friendship and common interest, This was term'd a conquest*, but it was an undisputed conquest of the hearts; and ours had anticipated the event before its birth. We do not wish to hurt the feelings of any of our fellow creatures; but the transactions that have taken place in our country could not be understood, should they not be represented in their native colours, at the risk of giving-offence to the pride of individuals, the Illinois Regi- ment, at their arrival among us, were in the most shabby and wretched state, very little short of absolute nakedness; upon the pledged faith of the United States, all the stores throughout the Country were freely opened to them, succours of every kind they wanted; we supplied them with alacrity, and, for a number of Years, gave away our provisions, our
This page contains an image.
Page 455
A MEMORIAL, FEBRUARY 28, 1788 455 Peltries, our Store Goods, untill we had nothing left to give. Officers and Soldiers rioted in abundance and unaccustomed luxury. The Merchandize, for the most part unfitt for their uses, were nevertheless bought off on Credit and soon exhausted: they best can tell what pur- poses they have been applied too, Our furrs were said to be wanted for the Continental Manufactories; and from Ignorance we parted with them on that plea, and thought we gained at least credit for the share we bore in the success of the revolution. As long as we had any thing to sell, no one Article could come amiss: whole Cargoes of Dry-Goods; Batteaux loads of Taffia, wine, and liquors, Peltries, Houses, Farms, all in short, found a ready Market. The days of delusion, however, could not be of long continuance, the goods we had sold (to the Public as we thought) were to be paid for to the Merchant, at New Orleans, Michilimakinac and Detroit: The Peltries, which are our currency, had passed into Other hands; and, in lieu of them, we had Book Ac- counts standing against the State, which are unsettled to this day; Bills on the Treasury, which, since, were returned protested, as being drawn by those who had no right so to do; and a paper-money which we were made to believe was equal to Gold and Silver, at a time when, as we afterwards discovered, it was depriciated in the States from forty to sixty for One. Endless would be the enumeration of property, squandered away, and, as it were, wantonly spoiled with, what became of such quantities of Merchandize; how they could disappear so suddenly, and in a short time leave the purchasers as ragged as ever, are matters beyond the reach of our comprehension; but that was none of our business; we expected to be paid for them. One instance only we shall mention; and that, a triffling one in comparison to others. Sixty Thousand Weight of flour had been received for the use of the Garrison at Kas- kaskia, then consisting of thirty nine Men; and, three Months after, an appeal was made upon the inhabitants for a quantity of that Article which was wanted immediately for the relief of the Troops; The Mag- istrates, in behalf of the People, wrote a very submissive letter to the Commanding Officer, expressing their concern at their inability to furnish more supplies, as they had Exhausted their Stores, for the support of the Army, and their Own families were destitute of bread. His answer was short, but pointed and energetic. Send the flour demanded, said he, or prepare yourselves for battle, for J <ha\] "-arch

This page contains an image.
Page 456
456 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS at the head of my men with charged Bayonets,1 from that time forward, the once happy district of Illinois exhibited a scene of misery, distress, and wretchedness: Our relentless Masters spurned at our proffered Love; and appeared more fond of striking awe than gaining our Affec- tions and Confidence. They themselves have repeatedly declared that there was not on Earth a People more easily governed than the inhab- itants of this Country. But, as if our passiveness had been for them an object of contempt, they seemed to be determined to try how far that docility, which they construed into a want of Spirit, could be strained. Ours was the task of hewing and carting their fire-wood to the Barracks; Ours the drudgery of raising vegetables which we did not eat; poultry for their Kitchen, Cattle for the diversion of their marksmen. Congress will not believe that our plow Oxen have been slain in the Streets and at our doors, in a vein of sportive defiance, and purely with a view to exasperate us into some unguarded expressions from which they might think themselves justified in their unexampled tyranny. Congress will not believe that those atrocities were committed by the Soldiery before the Eyes of their Officers, without the excuse or even the pretence of want, for, frequently, they did not take away any of the meat, and that we were threatened to be sent to prison if we dared to mutter a single word of discontent, much less, perhaps, would Congress be inclined to believe that, after these and a thousand parallel instances of cruelty and Oppression which we pass over in silence, our attachment to the American government has remained Unshaken and Unimpaired. In that respect, however, we are happy in the honorable testimony of the distinguished Officer whom Congress have sent at last to diffuse among us a ray of comfort and the dawn of better days. Besides the constant supplies of Merchandize and provisions which we have unweariedly furnished to the troops, we have, in repeated in- stances, raised contributions among ourselves, in order to make presents to the Indian parties who, from time to time, assembled in our Neigh- bourhood, with a determination to go and Carry war into the American settlements, thereby prevailing upon their Chiefs to lay aside their intended expiditions and return home peaceably. Often too, we have endangered our lives, and hazarded the total destruction of our settle- ments, when, unable to assuage by gentle means the fury of the savages bent upon annihilating all the Americans living in or near our Villages, 1 See the correspondence between Montgomery and the Magistrates, ante, pp. 140, 150.
This page contains an image.
Page 457
A MEMORIAL, FEBRUARY 28, 1788 457 we have been obliged to oppose them Openly. On the other hand, on account of our attachment to, and connection with, the United States, our navigation on the Mississippi has been cramped, and admittance into New-Orleans denied our Merchants, which has reduced our trade almost to nothing, from so many concurrent causes, these districts, formerly so flourishing and happy, are now sunk into a state of decay which forcibly strikes the attention, and must excite the pity, of every beholder whose heart is not indifferent to the rise and fall of human Societies. May our Posterity never know, may the sad remembrance be erazed from our own minds that the rapid decline of these Colonies is not to be traced farther back than to the epocka that submitted them to a Nation, from whom all our calamities have not been able to wean our Affections. If our unlimitted Submision to the Authority of the United States could be called in Question, which it has never been, even by those who have put it to the severest trial, your memorialists beg that it may be remembered how often our credulity has been imposed upon by the inordinate desire of dominion under all the shapes that self-created power could assume, and that, nevertheless, we have unalterably paid the most implicit obedience to all the mandates which, we thought originated from our Superiors, without so much as questioning the authority of those who pretended to bear them, from 1778 untill last year we have been taught to look upon ourselves as subjects of the State of Virginia, during that period, we have been successively, but always despotically govern'd by the Commander in chief of the Illinois Regi- ment; then by the Lieutenant-Colonel; and finally by some one or other of his petty-officers, long since the State of Virginia had ceded to Congress her rights to our territory; long even before that cession, her troops had deserted our Country, which they had rendered unfit to support them; and yet an Officer, whose Commission was expired, continued, from a distance of three or four hundred miles, to sway with a nod, and without the assistance of a single Soldier, or the faint shadow of any form of civil government, the extensive Settlements at Post Vin- cennes and the Illinois; merely because the idea was held up to us that he was invested with full powers from the Common-wealth.1 Last year an attempt was made to raise a Regiment in these districts, and it was cantoned upon the inhabitants. Officers were taken from among the 1 George Rogers Clark.
This page contains an image.
Page 458
458 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS dregs of Mankind — such as they were, however, they must live and be cloathed; private property was, consequently, siezed [sic] upon; supplies in the hands of Merchants were taken by main force; provis- ions had been demanded of the inhabitants, in the name of Congress, and that name always respected by us obtained immediately every thing we had to spare. Store goods, to the amount of Four thousand pounds Sterling, were plundered by a mock Court Martial, because the owners, tho' settled among us for a number of Years, had the misfortune to have been born Spaniards. Citizens have been turned out of their houses, and women in Child-bed disturbed and insulted by a Guard in the next room to theirs, who would not suffer the Slaves to come near their Mistress and bring her milk for the new born infant — if any one among us, less passive than the rest, or tormented beyond the powers of patience was daring enough to signify a desire to know by what Authority they acted, abusive language and dreadful threats were all the answer he received, and the most mild, submissive, unresisting people that ever existed, were stigmatized with the appellations of seditious, Rebels and Tories.1 Had all these grievances been heaped upon us by those alone who bore at least the apparent badges of delegated power, our willing docility might not, perhaps, have its full merit with Congress, as so much submissiveness might be atributed to an habit of being governed by military rulers. But how many have come among us, who were not invested with any ostensible, or even so much as pretended, Authority; and who, finding us like a flock without a Shepherd, have assumed the Crook, and who have directed and controuled us at their Option with- out resistance. Every man from the United States has passed himself upon us for what he pleased, and as easily as he pleased for, to be candid, these settlements, tho made at an early aera, have rather retrogaded towards the primitive state of human Society than proceeded forward to the improvements of civilized life, Our manners have all the simplicity of the first Ages of Mankind; knowledge has neither refined nor cor- rupted them, even the use of letters is almost totally unknown among us; and we govern ourselves by a moral sense of right and wrong more than by the coercive power of positive laws. This unadvanced stage of Sociability has afforded to many an opportunity of availing themselves of our good-nature, easiness of disposition, want of learning, and unex- 1 Evidently Tardiveau felt the necessity of divorcing the cause of his clients from that of Clark, who had made himself unpopular with Congress by his illegal expedition against the Indians in 1786.
This page contains an image.
Page 459
A MEMORIAL, FEBRUARY 28, 1788 459 perience of the World, Such advantages have been taken of our illiterate state, That a simple report of a Committee of Congress, recommending the necessity of taking into consideration the situation of the Illinois Country, has been by some designing persons palmed upon us for a frame of Government actually established, which they explained to us as suited to their purposes, meetings of the inhabitants, convened after our usual forms, and not having any political object, to which we are utter strangers, but merely for establishing our courts of Justice on such a footing as might in some degree secure life, peace, and property, have been peremptorily forbidden and disolved by people who had no public Charector, but said they had orders from Congress which they would shew when they thought proper, and that no assembly should be held without their consent.1 Gentlemen better acquainted than we are with the reciprocal obligations of the social compact, or who have not had an Opportunity of viewing a small federal family like ours, thrown by itself in a corner of the world, unimproved by communication, and, as it were, dropped Naked and uninformed from the hands of Nature, will perhaps be at a loss to know which ought to be most wondered at, the impudence of those political Sycophants in a Country under the protection of the United States, or our tameness and passive obedience upon all such occassions. Your Memorialists, afraid of tiring the attention of the Honorable the Congress, will not spin out any farther the long tale of their suffer- ings under an arbitray and illiegal power, a total want of civil govern- ment, and the most distressing uncertainty whether they should ever be taken notice of as a people or no. We heartily forgive the Authors of our misfortunes; and although they have precipitated us from a state of affluence and happiness, into an abyss of misery and poverty, this narrative is not intended to hurt them in any shape whatever. May the memory of the injuries they have done to this unfortunate Country be buried in eternal oblivion. In thus displaying the disagreeable retro- spect of their past miseries, your Memorialists have only proposed to themselves to interest your feelings at the same time that they have, by their respective petitions, applied to your equity for a grant of land in their own Country, and as, during a period of nine years, property 1 "The simple report" is printed ante, p. 391. The charges are probably aimed at Joseph Parker, but the documents that have been preserved, do not show any such action on his part as charged. If anyone did prohibit an assembly of the people in the spring of 1787, it is more likely to have been John Dodge, against whom Tardiveau makes no accusation. The fact is that the assembly was held and the justices were elected.
This page contains an image.
Page 460
4<5o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS to a considerable amount has been obtained from them, supposed to be for the use of the Public, for which no payment or compensation has ever been made, and which, at a moderate computation, they think cannot be less than One Hundred and fifty Thousand Dollars for Post Vincennes and two hundred Thousand for the different districts of the Illinois, altho few are in possession of sufficient vouchers, others have sent away their Continental bills and drafts, or have parted with them for a triffle, your Memorialists entertain a respectfull Confidence that the Honorable the Congress will be graciously pleased to grant them such an overplus of land, above the five hundred acres they have petitioned for, as you may deem a sufficient compensation for their losses; part of which to be given to those who shall be able to produce satisfactory accounts of the sums they have advanced to the public; and the remain- der to be applied by the Community to uses of General benifit, such as building Court-Houses and places of Worship, founding schools for the better education of their children, and such other usefull purposes. Your Memorialists are not ignorant that Congress have in all Occurrences manifested their intention of doing us Justice in regard to our Possessions: but as we apprehend that they have never been suffi- ciently informed of our peculiar circumstances, we beg leave to enter into some details from which it will appear that the resolves of Congress passed in our behalf, if literally executed, will amount almost to nothing. When we settled ourselves on the banks of the Wabash and Missis- sipie, Trade with the Indians first was and has ever since continued to be our sole object, the Culture of Lands attracted our attention no farther than was necessary for the bare subsistance of ourselves and families. In this, our private inclinations were perfectly consonant with the polit- ical systems of our Masters: hence the Crown granted but very incon- siderable tracts of Land, and hence also we were still more indifferent about obtaining than she was parsimonious in giving them. A Common for our Cattle and a few Acres for grain answerd all the purposes of home consumption, and we had no idea of exporting produce. By far the greatest number among us, entirely addicted to their Indian trade, found it inconvenient or thought it too troublesome to raise even the small portion of bread they required, and the few who had a turn for husbandry were fully sufficient to supply the wants of our little commu- nities. From this order of things two consequences have flown naturally, the importance of which we begin now to be sensible of: the one, that
This page contains an image.
Page 461
A MEMORIAL, FEBRUARY 28, 1788 461 hardly any of us have secured to themselves a competent quantity of Land whilst we could obtain them from the Kings of France or England: the other, that altho' there have certainly been Charters of tolerably extensive Territories granted to these respective districts, which were from time to time to be apportioned to individuals, the documents and records that ought to prove the existence of those Charters are most of them perished; partly by the little attention our forefathers paid them and the neglect of our Recorders; partly because they had come out in the name of some Lord Proprietor or other who carried them over to France, or of Religious Societies who exist here no more, and finally, thro' the injuries of time, unavoidable in infant Colonies like ours where few had learning enough to peruse, none a strong interest in preserving them from the worms and mould or other accidents.1 After this ingenuous and candid explanation, your Memorialists find themselves inclined, from the respectfull and dignified oppinion they have formed of the Honorable the Congress, to entertain the most liberal confidence that, the more thay have thrown themselves into your power, the more generous treatment they will meet with from your Equity, the appropriated lands which we have possessed individually time out of mind could not by any Law of Nations have been taken from us; and we conceive that the Laws of Congress, which secure our rights and priviledges, are not confined to that narrow compass, but mean a general comfirmation of all the terriories [sic] formerly conceded to us as communities by our Kings, whether our claims be supported by authentick Charters or merely by oral tradition. If the acts of your Honorable Body convey a meaning of that generous latitude, your Memorialists feel a noble pride in having it in their power to shew you their disinterestedness, and are exalted in their own oppinion by the idea of a combat of liberality with you. Some of our Charters, that especially of Post Vincennes, are of such extent as to be almost equall to any of the United States. So much territory in our hands might occa- sion, betwixt your councils and us difficulties which we wish to prevent. That circumstance, we are sensible, might in a great measure obstruct 1 M. Tardiveau is certainly ingenious in presenting the claims. The truth is, however, that no large grants to the communities, except the commons, were ever made or promised by the French or English government. (See post, p. 493, n. 1.) It should also be noted that the statement, so often made, that the French were very careless in the preservation of their legal papers, is incorrect. These Illinois French, like the French Canadians, were very careful to preserve papers of all kinds. Had it not been for the carelessness of the American custodians, the number of papers preserved in the K. USS., and C. MSS., would be far greater. At times I am inclined to think there has been de- struction of papers by interested parties in order to cover up their knavery. Consult Alvord "The Old Kaskaskia Records," Publication of the Chi. Hist. Society, 1006.
Page 462
462 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS your wise plans for settling this Country, and in many ways be preju- dicial to its general prosperity, to these great and important considera- tions we cheerfully sacrifice all views of private Interest. We solemnly and unconditionally surrender to the Honorable the Congress of the United States all our Charters, excepting only that in behalf of the Church of Cahokia; confiding at the same time that our respective Petitions praying for a gift of five Hundred acres of Land to every male inhabittant of these districts, besides what Congress may be pleased to grant us as a compensation for the property we have lost with the Public, shall not be rejected. It would be cruel to think that, because we have formerly contented ourselves with a few acres of ground, we ought and may now rest satisfied with as little. Those times are no more when the Value of Lands was unknown to us, and we could live in affluence without the assistance of our Soil. Trade has left our Shores: The Indian nations have disappeared from our Neighbourhood: Our connections with Detroit, Michilimackinac, and New Orleans are cut off. abundance has fled this once happy Clime: distress is at our doors, Poverty and want have taught us the necessity of tilling the fields; and we have learnt from the Industrious Americans settled here what Valuable treasures are hid for us in the bosom of the Earth. By order and in behalf of the french inhabitants of Poste Vincennes, Kaskaskia, Cahokia, La prairie du rocher, and village St. Philipp Bartholomew Tardiveau, Agent. New-york february the 28th 1788. [Endorsed:] No. 3. 28 Feby. 1788 Memorial by Barthelemi Tardiveau, February 28, 1788. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviii., 123.— A. D. S.] To the Honorable the Congress of the United-States of North- America. The French inhabitants of Poste Vincennes on the Wabash; Kas- kaskia, Cahokia, Prairie du rocher, and village St. Philipp in the Illinois country, impressed with the most respectful confidence that their respec- tive Petitions, praying for a gift of five hundred acres of land to every male inhabitant, will be favorably regarded by the Honorable the Con- gress, beg leave further to elucidate their situation and the objects of their demands.
Page 463
A MEMORIAL, FEBRUARY 28, 1788 463 The inhabitants of Poste Vincennes possess, Since the epocka of their first settlement, a Common pasture-ground for their cattle, under one fence, of about two miles in depth and eight miles in front, two thirds of which are ponds and impracticable morasses. A few among them took up, under the authority of their former governors, small tracts in the woods of between eight and twelve acres in superficies, where they used to make their sugar, and which, from that circumstance, they call their sugar-camps. All the farming lands which they have formerly obtained, besides their Common, do not amount to four, or at most, five thousand acres. Since the conquest made of that country by the State of Virginia, the Court has granted to every American adventurer four hundred acres, subject to such regulations as might be made here- after by Congress. Not half a dozen of the french have availed them- selves of that opportunity of obtaining lands. Their Charter, or the cession made them by the Pianquicha Indians in the year 1768 begins at Pointe coupée twelve leagues above the Poste by water, down to the mouth of White river twelve leagues below said Poste; and is to extend forty leagues to the Eastward and thirty to the Westward which contains about eight millions of acres.1 All the bottom from the mouth of the Kaskaskia river to Prairie du rocher, and from the hills along that river to the Mississipi has been long since apportioned by government to the inhabitants of these two villages, and contains from eighteen to twenty thousand acres; and, as the number of their male inhabitants is two hundred and seventy, this gives seventy-four acres to every one of them including their Common which is very extensive. The Deputy County-Lieutenant of this dis- trict, in conformity to the directions of Colonel Todd appointed by the state of Virginia County-Lieutenant, has granted to some few Americans and french tracts of Eighty, one hundred and sixty, and three hundred acres, subject to be hereafter controuled by Congress. The Jesuits had at Kaskaskia a grant from the King of france, of four square leagues. The village of Cahokia is included within a grant of four square leagues made in the year 17422 by Messr. De Boisbriant and Desursins Commandants to the Missionaries of the order of St. Sulpice. In 1768 the Bishop of Quebec and these fathers ceded to the inhabitants of Cahokia the usufruit of this grant. Within its bounds they have 1 On this claim, see post, p. 493, n. I. 2 Date of grant to the Seminary of Foreign Afissions was 172a. The date given in the text is that of the confirmation of the grant of the commons of Kaskaskia.
This page contains an image.
Page 464
464 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS the few improvements they have made; and some concessions have been granted by their court to the Americans settled at Grand- ruisseau, two leagues and a half from the village.1 The remainder of the Americans live on the intermediate space between village St. Philipp and the boundaries of the Cahokia Grant. from these premises it will appear why the inhabitants of Cahokia did not join with the other districts in giving up their Charter, because it is not immediately vested in them. The inhabitants of Poste Vincennes and the several districts of the Illinois, in consequence of the above statement, presume with diffidence to pray, That the five hundred acres of land, for which they have petitioned the Honorable the Congress, may be granted to them, exclusive of the small tracts they are already possessed of in virtue of concessions to them made, previous to the country being taken possession of by the state of Virginia. That it be ordered that all the grants made by the County-Lieuten- ant or his deputy, and by our respective courts, since we became sub- jects of Virginia, shall be confirmed to the respective Grantees; provided that so much as has been so conceded to them shall be part of what may be granted by Congress. That, in consideration of the poverty of the inhabitants, the fees of the Surveyors, employed in laying off the different tracts that may be granted to these districts, be paid by Congress. That, as an alleviation of our distresses and loses during these ten last years, the lands of the french inhabitants of these districts may be exempted from taxation for so long as it will please Congress to order it. That the lands to be granted to the french and American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes, on the Eastern side of the Wabash, begin at the upper opening of the false channel vulgarly called Le faux chenal, thence going up the Wabash, so that the depth from this river shall be one third of the length along said river, and include the whole quantity. That the boundaries of the lands to be granted to the french and American inhabitants of the different districts of the Illinois be from the mouth of the Rivière à Marie, up and along the Mississippi to the upper limit of the Cahokia Charter, along said limit to a North- and South-line that shall intersect an East- and West-line from the mouth of the Rivière à Marie, so as to include the whole quantity. 1 Consult III. Hist. Collections, ii., 587.
Page 465
REPORT ON MEMORIAL, MARCH 6, 1788 465 And finally, that the grants to the french be distinguish'd and sepa- rate from those to be made to the American inhabitants. New york february 28th 1788. By order and in behalf of the french inhabitants of Poste Vincennes and the Illinois Bartholomew Tardiveau Agent. [Endorsed:] No 4 Feby. 28. 1788 No. 4. Committee's Report on Târdiveau's Memorials, March 6, 1788. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xxx., 497.—A. D. S.] Mr Wadsworth Mr Irvin Mr White The Committee to whom was refered the Pitetions [sic] of the French and American Inhabitants of Post Vincents and the Illinois — by their Agent Mr Tardieu — beg leave to report — that the Petitions are not accompanied by any documents which justify the claims of the Peti- tioners to Lands under antient grants, and your Committee are of opinion the prayer of the Petitioners be not granted — they further re- port that the State of Virginia in their Cession of the Lands North west of the River Ohio Stipulated "That the French and Canadian inhab- itants, and other settlers of the Kaskasskias, St Vincents and the neigh- boring Villages who have professed themselves cittizens of Virginia, shall have their Possessions and titles confirmed to them and be pro- tected in the enjoyments of their rights and liberties" And your Com- mittee are of Opinion — that the Governor of the Western Territory be directed to obtain, as soon as may be, from the Petitioness [sic] "a Statement of their rights to lands within the sd Country guaranteed to them by Congress, in their acceptance of the Virginia Cession, with the origin and extent thereof." and report the same to Congress with a plan for secureing to the Petitioners the peacable, and quiet possession of of [sic] their just rights [Endorsed:] No. 5. Report of Mr Wadsworth Mr Irvin Mr White On address of Inhabitants of post S* Vincents entd. read 6 March 1788
Page 466
466 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS March 27th. 1788 recommitted with Petition Ma[r]ch 18th. 1788 from the same Inhabitants by Mr Tardiveau Agent Mr Wadsworth Mr Irvine Mr White — Memorial by Barthelemi Tardiveau, March 18, 1788. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviu., 231.— A. D. S.] To The Honorable the Congress of the United-States of North- America The Memorial of the french and American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes and the Illinois country Humbly Sheweth After the several Petitions and Addresses which we have had the honour to present to Your Honorable Body, we cannot wait but with the most respectful confidence the issue of your determination upon them. Our demands are so moderate, they will altogether amount to such a trifling quantity of land, and the principles on which we rest them are so well acknowledged, that to entertain any fear lest they should not be granted, would betray in us a want of a proper sense of your justice and humanity. We have no apprehensions on that score; but are afraid that even your good-will towards us may be defeated by a measure which your wisdom may think proper to adopt; but which, we conceive, will in its consequences marr your benevolent intentions, and deprive us of their benefit as effectually as if you had disdained our Petitions. Your Memorialists beg leave to take notice that, although their Agent has received no Official information concerning the business, yet some circumstances lead us to presume that the determination of it will perhaps be deferred, untill the Honorable the Congress have re- ceived a fuller account respecting our country, from His Excellency our Governor. Should this be the case, Your Memorialists, conceiving themselves on the verge of destruction, take the liberty of submitting to your more mature consideration the almost unavoidable consequences that will result from that system. The departure of His Excellency the Governor of the North-Western country, from this City, may be delayed some considerable time: * the treaty he proposes to hold with the Indians will detain him two or three 1 Refers to the recommendation of the committee on March 6. See ante, p. 465.
Page 467
A MEMORIAL, MARCH 18, 1788 467 months: by that time, our rivers will be low, which will not permit him to arrive at Poste Vincennes but late in the Summer: He must spend there several months to establish and organize the new government, and acquire the Knowledge which Congress might wish to receive from him: his journey from thence to the Illinois, the necessary diplomatic and civil arrangements there, and the same inquiries to be made as at Poste Vincennes; all these matters can not be compleated before the Winter; and it is more than probable that the necessary instruction shall not arrive before the Spring of the next year. At that juncture, there will be a new Congress, who shall be strangers to the business, and before whom it shall have to be laid again. Their attention, then, will very likely be engrossed by the organization of the new Constitu- tion; and, if the interests of the comparatively insignificant inhabitants of the Westward are not dropt altogether, they will at least suffer a delay which their situation for ten years past renders very oppressive, and will be felt the more severely, as they shall find themselves disappointed of the hopes they had been encouraged to conceive. In the meantime, they shall be afraid of making improvements on lands which they are not sure to hold; and every kind of industry will remain at a stand for one or two years longer. We can not think that Congress may be in- different to the distresses of so many good and valuable members of the community. Another danger of the most allarming nature will inevitably result to Your Memorialists from a delay which, in our humble opinions, can produce no kind of good. Large tracts of land, almost in our neighbor- hood, have already been sold; and there is every degree of probability that before a twelve-month, that is to say, before Congress may receive any information from His Excellency our Governor respecting our situation, many other sales shall be made, which very likely will take in the very lands that we expected to obtain, and leave us without any hopes of relief or subsistance. Add to this the uneasiness, anxiety, and discouragement, that a protracted uncertainty must naturally create in the minds of people who have never yet received a kind look from the government under which they live. Since the year 1778, they have been constantly harrassed, oppressed, and plundered. Weary of their sufferings, they had given up all future prospect of better days, and dis- piritedly bowed down their heads under the weight of calamity; when last summer, a respectable character, sympathyzing with their mis-
Page 468
468 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS fortunes, encouraged them to hope that their Petitions would find in Congress a ready disposition to alleviate their misery. Delayed com- miseration will appear to them under the shape of a denial of it. Your Memorialists conceive that nothing can suggest the propriety of such a measure, but a desire of knowing who is intitled to a gift of land, or who is not. The french flatter themselves that their claims meet with the full approbation of Congress; and as to the Americans all those who settled in these districts before the first of March 1784 are most undoubtedly under the protection of the stipulation made by the State of Virginia in behalf of all who had professed themselves citizens of that state previous to the cession made by it to Congress. If so, we humbly apprehend that Congress might, by granting a tract of hundred acres to every American who came under that description, the number of whom may easily be ascertained hereafter as effectually provided against unjust claims and demands as they can at any future period whatever. A Resolve of this kind, bearing the characters of equity and benevolence, would quiet the minds of the inhabitants; impress them with a due sense of attachment and gratitude, and en- courage them to pursue with alacrity their useful employments. The love of the subjects is always desirable to a wise and humane govern- ment; but we beg leave to add that the affections of the inhabitants of these districts are more peculiarly so, as their influence with the Indians may be of use to the United-States. New-york March 18th 1788 Bartholomew Tardiveau Agent for the french and American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes and the Illinois — [Endorsed:] Petition — French and American Inhabitants — St Vin- cennes and Illinois — by Bartholomew Tardiveau Read March 18th. 1788 March 27th 1788 Referred — Mr Wadsworth Mr Irvine Mr White —
Page 469
MORGAN'S PETITION, MAY i, 1788 469 George Morgan Petitions for Land, May 1, 1788. [C. C. Pp., xli., 6, 496.—A. D. S.] To the honourable, The United States of America in Congress assembled, The Memorial of William Newbold, Cleayton Newbold & Joseph Newbold of Springfield, John Cox of Bloomsbury Joseph Bloomfield of Burlington, Joel Gibbs of Mansfield Daniel Vardon of White-hill, all of Burlington County — George Morgan of Prospect, Isaac Smith, Samuel W. Stockton, David Brearley & Aaron Dunham of Trenton, Richard Stockton of Morven, Frederic Frelinghuysen & Henry Vandike of Sommerset County & Evist Van Wickle of Spotswood Middlesex County, all of the State of New Jersey & William Edgar of the City of New York, by their Agent George Morgan duly authorised & ap- pointed for the Purpose, Respectfully sheweth, That they for themselves & their Associates are desirous to contract for & to purchase from the United States of America, Two Million Acres of Land situate & bounded as follows — Beginning at the River au Vase where the Line of the Army Lands extended due West from the Mouth of the little Wabash River shall strike the said River au Vase, thence due North until a due East Line extended from the Missisippi River at the Mouth of Wood River shall intersect the same, thence due West to the Missisippi River at the Mouth of Wood River aforesaid, thence down the Missisippi River along the Boundary Line of the United States of America to the Mouth of the River au Vase, thence up the said River au Vase along the several Courses thereof to the Place of Beginning — (saving & reserving to the Inhabitants of Kaskaskias, Prairie du Rocher, Fort Chartres, St. Phillips & Kahokia, & all others having just Claims, their respective Rights within the said Boundaries, to be determined as Congress shall direct) for which your Memorial- ists by their said Agent will engage to pay on similar Terms granted by Congress to other Companies, or on such other Terms as their Agent may deem more advantageous to their Interest. It is the Intention of your Memorialists to divide the said Territory into two hundred equal Shares at least, & to include that Number of Share holders, of respectable Characters only, all on equal Terms with Ourselves & to encourage no Emigration for the Settlement thereof
This page contains an image.
Page 470
470 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS but of Families well affected to the United States & of good moral Character, being sensible that it is necessary to the Interest of America to cultivate Harmony & Peace, not only with the Subjects of his Catholic Majesty, but the neighbouring Indian Nations with whom we conceive a considerable Trade may be opened, highly to the Interest of America. Your Memorialists are of Opinion that this is the natural Channel for o/ioths of the rich Fur Trade which is at present carried to Canada as Returns may be made to these States in twelve Months which require three & often four Years to be made to Montreal, from the difficulties of the Navigation & the Numerous Portages by the lake of the Woods to the most Northern Sources of the Missisippi, from whence the richest Furs are derived. Your Memorialists, sensible that Good Government is indispen- sibly necessary to the Prosperity of every Country, have further author- ized & directed their Agent to pray of Congress to set off & erect into an Independent State all the Lands contained within the following Boundaries —Vizt. Beginning at the Confluence of the Ohio & Missis- ippi Rivers, thence up the said Ohio River, along the several Courses thereof to the River Wabash, thence up the said River Wabash along the several Courses thereof to the old Muscouton Fort above St. Vincents, thence due West to the Missisippi River thence down the said Missis- ippi River along the Boundary Line of the United States of America to the Ohio River at the Place of Beginning — Or — such other Boun- daries as Congress may be pleased to prescribe; reserving to Congress the absolute Right of Sale & Disposition of all the Vacant Lands con- tained within the same — And your Memorialists further respectfully pray that they & their Associates may carry with them & enjoy the Constitution & form of Government now established in the State of Massachusetts Bay, with Right to Representation in Congress on pro- ducing satisfactory Proof that the Number of free Inhabitants amount to Thirty Thousand. May ist, 1788. [Here follow the names 0} the persons mentioned at the beginning.] By their Agent George Morgan [Endorsed:] No. 90. George Morgan for purchase 2 Mill Acres W terry Read 13 May, 1788 May 14 Referred to the board of treasury to report Acted on June 20th, 1788
This page contains an image.
Page 471
SOME PROPOSALS, MAY 15, 1788 471 The Proposals of George Morgan and Associates, May 15,1788. [C. C. Pp., xli., 6, 500.—Copy.] Proposals of the New Jersey Society for the purchase of two Million Acres of Land agreeable to their Memorial to Congress referred to the honble. Treasury Board. New York May 15th, 1788. First On similar terms in all respects to those granted to Messrs. Flint & Parker. Or, Second We will pay the whole purchase Money down in one entire payment within one Month after completeing the Survey of the boun- daries by the Geographer of the United States or his Deputies, and ascer- taining the quantity at half a dollar p Acre in public Securities — the United States to extinguish the Indian Claims. Or, Third We will pay the whole Purchase Money down as aforesaid, at One third of a dollar p. Acre taking upon ourselves to extinguish the just Claims of all the Indian Nations residing thereon. And, In Order to expedite the completion of the Surveys we will make every necessary Advance of Money to the Geographer General to enable him to execute the same — to be deducted out of the purchase Money. (signed) George Morgan Agent for the New Jersey Society. [Endorsed:] Proposals of Geo. Morgan & associates for purchase of Land Report of a Congressional Committee on Illinois Lands, no date.1 [M. C, T. MSS.— Printed.] THE COMMITTEE, consisting of Mr. WADSWORTH, Mr. IRWINE and Mr. WHITE, to whom was referred the Petition of ths French and American inhabitants of Post St. Vincent's and the Illinois, by their Agent, Mr. TARDIVEAU, beg leave to report, That as there is much uncertainty about the possessions of the inhabitants of the country upon the Wabash and Mississippi rivers, and the quantities of land that they may be entitled respectively to hold and enjoy, by rights acquired before they became subjects of the United States; in order to 1 The date of this report has not been found, but it is the report of the same committee to whom was referred, on March 27, the memorial of March 18; and the following memorial of Tardiveau {post, p. 475), is evidently an answer to it, so that the date must have been after March 18, and was before May 19, the date of Tardiveau's answer.
This page contains an image.
Page 472
47a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS quiet their minds, to maintain them on their just rights, and extend to them the liberality of the United States, they submit the following resolutions, viz. RESOLVED, That the Governor of the Western Territory shall cause to be surveyed and laid out, as soon as may be, a Tract of Land upon the Wabash River, bounded in the following manner, to wit: Beginning at the place where the River a Maries falls into the Wabash; and running thence east eight miles; thence north to the southern boundary line ot a tract of land lately agreed for by the Board of Treas- ury, with Messrs. Flint and Parker;1 thence with that line to the Wabash, and across the same twenty miles; thence due north, so far as to meet a due west line drawn from the point of beginning.— Also, one other Tract of Land upon the Mississippi, bounded in the following manner, viz. Beginning at the mouth of the Wood River, and running with the southern boundary line of a tract of land, lately agreed for by the Board of Treasury, with Messrs. Flint and Parker, to the Kaskaskia River; thence southerly until it meets the Mississippi at the mouth of the River au Vase; thence with that river to the place of beginning, and including all the islands in that river near to the eastern bank of the same; which two Tracts of Land will contain and circumscribe all the settlements made by the ancient French inhabitants except such as may have been within the tract agreed for with Flint and Parker upon the Illinois River, and the rights of each as may have been settled thereon, and provided for by the agreement with them. RESOLVED, That the Governor of the Western Territory shall cause, as soon as may be, due enquiry to be made into the claims to lands of the inhabitants of the country upon the Wabash and Mississippi Rivers; and where it shall be ascertained, either by records that have been preserved in the country or by authentic writings in the possession of the parties claiming, which may not have been recorded, that lands may have been granted to any of the said inhabitants by the French government, or conceded to them by the military officers in command there from time to time — or by the Intendant or other civil officer of that Crown, who may have been entrusted with the distribution of lands; he shall, provided the quantity expressed in such grant does not exceed four hundred acres, on the application of the said inhabitants respec- tively, or of their heirs or legal representatives, cause the same to be ■ See ante, p. 450.
This page contains an image.
Page 473
A REPORT ON ILLINOIS LANDS 473 surveyed and laid out, agreeably to the descriptions in the said writings and records contained at their own proper costs and charges; and shall grant letters patent, under the seal of the government, and counter- signed by the Secretary, confirming the same to the said parties, and to their heirs and assigns for ever; to the inhabitants of the country upon the Wabash the lands to be laid out in the tract upon the Wabash, and to the inhabitants of the Mississippi in the tract upon the Mississippi. And whereas it may be, that persons may have acquired equitable titles to lands under some peculiar customs established and recognized in the ancient French Colonies where no actual grants have passed in that case: RESOLVED, That the Governor of the Western Territory, wherever it shall be made satisfactorily to appear by any of the inhabi- tants of the countries upon the Wabash and Mississippi Rivers, or by the heirs or legal representatives of any persons who have heretofore been inhabitants of the same, that they or their predecessors respectively had acquired equitable or customary rights to lands, shall cause to be surveyed for each on their applying for the same, and at their proper costs and charges, four hundred acres of land, within either of the before described tracts of land, in that upon the Wabash for the inhabitants upon the Wabash, upon the Mississippi for those upon the Missis- sippi; and issue letters patent under the seal of the government, granting the same to the individuals and to their heirs and assigns for ever. And whereas the country upon the Wabash and Mississippi Rivers, was, by the Treaty of Paris, 1763, ceded to the Crown of Great-Britain, and grants of land may have been made to individuals inhabiting there, by the officers of that Crown: RESOLVED, that the Governor of the Western Territory shall cause like enquiries to be made, as in the cases of the ancient French inhabitants, and order the lands to be surveyed and laid out for them respectively, within the bounds of the before described tracts of land; and, under the same limitations and restric- tions, issue letters patent confirming the same to them and their heirs and assigns respectively for ever. And whereas from the conquest of the country upon the Wabash and Mississippi Rivers, until the cession made by the State of Virginia to the United States, the same was under the dominion of that State, and many persons may have removed during that period into the said country, and have acquired legal or equitable titles to lands under the laws or customs of Virginia: RESOLVED, That the Governor of the
This page contains an image.
Page 474
474 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Western Territory shall cause due enquiry to be made into the same, and, upon the same being ascertained, to order the lands to be surveyed and laid out for the persons claiming the same, their heirs or legal repre- sentatives, within either of the before described tracts of land, and issue letters patent confirming them to them, and their heirs and assigns for ever, under and subject to the same regulations, limitations and restric- tions, as are prescribed in the case of the French and English inhab- itants. And whereas it may be that within the boundaries of the before de- scribed tracts of land upon the Wabash and Mississippi Rivers, after all the claims of the inhabitants, whether legal or equitable, to any quantity of land not exceeding four hundred acres for each, shall have been satis- fied, there may yet remain an overplus: RESOLVED, That the Gov- ernor of the Western Territory may, and he is hereby empowered and directed, upon application, to order the same to be surveyed and laid out for any person or persons, in quantities not exceeding four hundred acres for each applicant; and to issue letters patent, granting and con- firming the same to the said applicants respectively, and to their heirs and assigns for ever, they paying for the same at the rate of [blank] per acre, any thing in the powers to the Board of Treasury to dispose of Western Territory notwithstanding; out of which powers the before described tracts of land upon the Wabash and Mississippi Rivers are hereby espresly excepted. RESOLVED, That where the claims to lands of the inhabitants of the country upon the Wabash and Mississippi rivers, whether legal or equitable, do not amount to four hundred acres for each; the Governor of the Western Territory may, and he is hereby empowered, at the request of the parties, to grant to the parties a quantity in addition, that shall make up four hundred acres for each inhabitant; and provided, that in all cases where the claim exceeds that quantity he shall report the same, with all the circumstances attending it, to Congress, for their decision: And to the end that the business may be conducted with safety and pro- priety, as well for the United States as for the individuals interested, RESOLVED, That the Governor shall erect an office, where all persons claiming lands under grants from the crown of France, the government of Great-Britain, or the state of Virginia, shall present the same, or authentic copies of the records, where the same may have been preserved, and from which warrants of survey shall issue to the surveyors to be
This page contains an image.
Page 475
A MEMORIAL, MAY 19, 1788 475 appointed to lay out the same, which surveyors, before they enter upon the execution of their office, shall take an oath or affirmation of fidelity to the United States, and for the due and faithful execution of their offices respectively, before they enter on the same, which warrants, together with plots of the tracts of land, shall be returned to and filed in the said office, before any patent shall issue; and in all cases where equitable titles shall have been ascertained, the Governor shall certify the same, under his hand and seal, to the party, which certificate shall be recorded in the said office, and warrants of survey issued thereupon, and return of the war- rants, together with the plots of the land, be returned and filed before any patent for the same shall issue; And the Secretary of the Govern- ment shall make return once in every three months to the Secretary of Congress of all warrants issued by the Governor in pursuance of the foregoing resolutions. Memorial by Barthelemi Tardiveau, May 19, 1788. [C. C. Pp., xlviii., 227.—A. L. S.1] To the Honorable the Congress of the United States of North America The Memorial of the French and American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes and the Illinois Humbly Sheweth A Report of the Committee appointed to examine the several Peti- tions and Memorials presented to Congress by our Agent, having acci- dentally been communicated, its dispositions have struck us with amaze- ment and consternation. We wish not to tire the patience of the Honor- able the Congress, and shall briefly discuss the different Resolves of that Report. The second Resolve saith, that where it shall be ascertained either by records or by authentic writings that lands may have been granted by the officers of the French crown to the inhabitants, the Governor of the Western territory shall cause the same to be survey'd and laid out at their own proper costs and charges, and grant letters patent, Provided the quantity expressed in such grants does not exceed four hundred acres. Your Memorialists have already informed the Honorable the Con1 There is a fair copy of this memorial made by Tardiveau in the M. C, T. MSS. This is an answer to the committee's report printed ante, p. 471 el seq.
This page contains an image.
Page 476
476 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS gress by their Memorial of March last No. 3 l that our public Records have partly perished by fires, or thro' the neglect of the officers entrusted with the keeping of them. And shall property lawfully obtained from their then sovereign, and possessed by the inhabitants for fifty or Sixty years, be wrested from them by the United-States of America, because accidents may have deprived them of the titles by which they claim the inheritance of their ancestors? No, Sir; we can not entertain that opinion: the idea of it is repugnant to the respect we have for the Honor- able the Congress: but yet the Resolve, as it runs, carries with it that doctrine. It further saith, that the lands possessed by the French inhab- itants shall be survey'd and laid out at their own proper costs and charges. Those lands have already been survey'd and laid out at their own proper costs and charges; but it seems that the minds of the people must be disquieted by a new Survey; and the expences attending it added to the other distresses, vexation, and violence they have experienced for ten years past. The Resolve does not stop here: it ordains that the Gov- ernor shall grant letters patent for such lands, — Provided the quantity expressed in such grants does not exceed four hundred acres! By what rule of right, or by what principle of law, your Committee were led to conceive that any power whatever on earth could deprive individuals of their property, we cannot possibly guess. It appears to us, simple and illiterate as we are, that, had any one among us obtained from the King of France or of England, while they held this country, six or eight or ten hundred acres of land, it is not to be taken from us by a Report of a Com- mittee, or by any authority whatsoever short of absolute despotism. The lands we now possess, together with all our rights and liberties, have been stipulated for and confirmed in all the transactions between Con- gress and the State of Virginia for the cession of the Western territory, Videlicet; by the acts of the legislature of that State, of January the 2d, 1781 and October the 20th 1783, and by the Deed of cession executed by their Delegates in Congress, March the 1st 1784. Our present posses- sions, therefore, can neither be subject to the controul and limitations prescribed by your Committee, should they exceed four hundred acres for each grant; neither do they need a new confirmation. We have, thro' our Agent, Petitioned the Honorable the Congress for a Gift of five Hundred acres in addition to what we now possess Gratis to every male inhabitant of these districts without any discrimination of age. 1 The date of the Memorial was February 28. See ante, p. 461.
This page contains an image.
Page 477
A MEMORIAL, MAY 19, 1788 477 This last circumstance has not been attended to by your Committee, and they have moreover shifted the ground of the main bus'ness. In sup- port of our Petition, we have pleaded our hopes as ancient settlers and as Strenuous friends to the American Revolution; our wrongs as a much injured people by the military forces of Virginia; and our dépendance on the justice, humanity, and benevolence of Congress. Our griev- ances and expectations are set forth at large in our Memorial of March last No. 3. Fortunately for us, as we find, there is not one of the French inhabitants of these districts who did ever obtain or demand from their King the quantity of four hundred acres, beyond which Grants are to be invalid; but still the disposition of this Resolve, as it supposes that to be the case, is subversive of all notions of justice and of the right of prop- erty. We beg leave to ask if this be quieting the minds of the people, maintaining them on their just rights, and extending to them the liberal- ity of the United States, as set forth in the preamble to the Report? From the complexion of the different Resolves that follow, and thro' the whole of which runs a mysterious obscurity, it appears that those who have legal or equitable titles to lands, acquired either under the King of France, the King of England, or under the laws and customs of Virginia, shall receive letters patent for a grant of four hundred acres from the Governor of the Western territory; but there is no provision made for those who have never yet obtained a foot of land, and who are the majority of the French inhabitants: for, by the tenor of the Report, they do not seem to come under the description of those who have equit- able claims. The Sixth Resolve, indeed, provides that, after all the claims of the inhabitants, whether legal or equitable, shall have been satisfied, the Governor of the Western territory may grant four hundred acres to each applicant they paying for the same at the rate of [blank] per acre. But your Memorialists observe, with submission, that they have not employer'd their Agent, nor desir'd your Committee, to pur- chase lands for them, or enter into any arrangement in their behalf on that footing. And even should this be thought a favour, it is, in regard to them, nugatory, as they live at such an immense distance, have not the least correspondence with these States, are entirely unacquainted with paper-speculations, and have not of course any means of availing them- selves of the opportunities of which others know so well how to profit by, of purchasing public securities at a low rate, and therewith acquiring large tracts of land almost for nothing. Your Memorialists, therefore,
This page contains an image.
Page 478
478 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS must either pay four hundred hard Dollars for four hundred acres of land, which their poverty renders utterly impossible, or remain as they are without property. How can this be looked upon as an act of benevo- lence, when we know full well that gentlemen will no doubt step in between Congress and us, offer to purchase the country we inhabit for depreciated certificates, and retail it to us at a much lower rate than we can buy it for from Congress if the Report of your Committee is adopted. The preamble to the Report saith, that there is much uncertainty about the possessions of the inhabitants of Poste Vincennes and the Illinois; and we apprehend that it is this uncertainty which occasions some doubts in the minds of several Gentlemen in Congress, lest by granting five Hundred acres to every male individual, over and above what they already hold, too much should be given, as it might be that they already possessed very large quantities of land. These doubts can easily be removed, and the proportion of the country, given away by Con- gress, ascertained with precision. The whole number of the male inhab- itants of Poste Vincennes, French and Americans, is six hundred and twenty three; and those at the Illinois are six hundred and fifty seven. If then, Congress should not think proper to grant each of them five hundred acres exclusive of their present possessions which Congress may think are extensive, by granting them each six hundred acres in- cluding their ancient possessions, every possibility of mistake or deception will be done away; the minds of the people will then indeed be quieted, and the liberality of the United-States will have been extended to them at the trifling cost of seven hundred and sixty eight thousand acres of land including the ancient rights of the inhabitants; in lieu of which, the people of Poste Vincennes have given up to Congress a charter given to them by the Indians many years before the Revolution, and of course indefeasible by the United-States; which Charter contains Nine Mil- lions six hundred and seventy six thousand eight hundred acres. We conceive that this last consideration alone ought to be of some weight with Congress. Your Memorialists are so fully convinced of the justice and benev- olence of the Honorable the Congress, that they think it unnecessary to detain your attentions any longer on this Subject; and, as in duty bound, will ever pray for the honor, glory and welfare of the United- States of North-America.
This page contains an image.
Page 479
REPORT OF COMMITTEE, JUNE 20, 1788 479 By order and in behalf of the french and American inhabitants of Post-Vincennes and the Illinois B: Tardiveau Agent. New-york May 19th 1788 Report of Committee of Congress, June 20, 1788. [M. C, T. MSS.'— Printed.] By the United States in Congress Assembled June 20, 1788 The Committee consisting of Mr. Williamson, Mr. Dane, Mr. Carrington, Mr. Kearney, and Mr. Wingate, to whom was referred the Memorial of George Morgan 2 and his associates, respecting a tract of land in the Illinois country on the Mississippi having reported thereon, and their report being amended as follows: "That there are sundry French settlements on the river Mississippi within the tract which Mr. Morgan and his associates propose to purchase. Near the mouth of the river Kaskaskias, there is a village which appears to have con- tained eighty families from the beginning of the late revolution. There are twelve families in a small village at la Prarie du Rochers, and near fifty families at the Kahokia village. There are also four or five families at fort Chartres and at St. Philips, which is five miles farther up the river. The heads of families in those villages appear each of them to have had a certain quantity of arable land allotted to them, and a pro- portionate quantity of meadow and of woodland or pasture. Your Committee are of the opinion, that from any general sale which may be made of the lands on the Mississippi, there should at least be a reserve of so much land as may satisfy all the just claims of the antient settlers on that river, and that they should be confirmed in the possession of such lands as they may have had at the beginning of the late revolution, which may have been allotted to them according to the laws or usages of the governments under which they have respec- tively settled. And whereas an additional quantity of land may be necessary for the support of those people whenever the settlement shall increase, and the Indian trade, by which they have chiefly subsisted shall become less profitable, your Committee are of the opinion, that such allowance should also be made them within the reserved limits. Your Committee observe that in the contract which is already made 1 This document has been printed in Journals of Congress, xiii., 30. 3 See ante, p. 469.
This page contains an image.
Page 480
4&> ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS for the sale of a tract of land in the western country, the purchasers are to be charged with surveying three lots which are reserved for the benefit of the United States. They conceive that future contractors may be relieved from this expence; but they would propose that every agree- ment hereafter to be made shall be equally binding on the contracting parties, whereupon they submit the following resolves: That the Board of Treasury be authorized to contract with any person or persons for a grant of a tract of land which shall be bounded as follows:— Beginning on the river au Vase in the parallel of latitude of the mouth of Little Wabash river, thence running due north to the parallel of latitude which passes through the mouth of Wood river, thence west to the Mississippi at the mouth of Wood river, thence down the river Mississippi to the mouth of the river au Vase, thence up the said river to the place of beginning, under the exceptions and reservations herein after mentioned. That the purchaser or purchasers shall oblige themselves to lay off the tract at their own expence into townships or fractional townships, and to divide the same into lots according to the land ordinance of the 20th of May, 1785, complete returns of which are to be made to the Board of Treasury. The lot No. 16, in each township, or fractional part of a township to be given perpetually for the purposes contained in the said ordinance; and the lot No. 29, in each township, or fractional part of a township, to be given perpetually for the purposes of religion, and that each of the several townships shall be thus laid off before the original purchaser or purchasers shall have disposed of the same, or made any settlement therein. The price to be not less than two thirds of a dollar per acre for the contents of the said tract, except the reserva- tions and gifts herein mentioned payable in specie, loan-office certifi- cates reduced to specie value, or certificates of liquidated debts of the United States, the principal only of the said certificates to be received in payment; and the Board of Treasury for such interest as may be due on the certificates rendered in payment as aforesaid prior to the first day of January, 1787, shall issue indents for interest to the possessors, which shall be receivable in payment as other indents for interest of the exist- ing requisitions of Congress. And for such interest as may be due on the said certificates between that period and the time of payment, the said Board shall issue indents, the payment of which to be provided for hereafter.
This page contains an image.
Page 481
REPORT OF COMMITTEE, JUNE 20, 1788 481 That part of the purchase money, not less than one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, shall be paid down upon closing of the contract, and the remainder of the purchase money whenever the Indian claim shall have been extinguished, and the boundary line of the tract run by the geographer of the United States, or his assistant, the contents of the land which is to be sold ascertained and a plot of the same returned to the office of the Treasury Board, on which payment a grant shall be made, and the purchaser or purchasers shall have the right of entry and occupancy. That separate tracts shall be reserved for satisfying the claims of theantient settlers which shall be included within the following boundary, viz. A straight line to be extended from the mouth of the little river Marie below the river Kaskaskies, to the old French fort on the east side of the said river Kaskaskies, and opposite the Kaskaskies village, thence north three miles, thence west across the Kaskaskies river to the ridge of rocks and high land that extends from the Kaskaskias to the Illinois rivers, then along the west side or foot of the said ridge of rocks and high land to the parallel that runs two miles north of the church at Kahokia, thence west to the river Mississippi, thence down the said river to the mouth of the river Marie. That measures be immediately taken for confirming in their pos- sessions and titles, the French and Canadian inhabitants, and other settlers on those lands, who on or before the year 1783 had professed themselves citizens of the United States, or any of them, and for laying off the several tracts which they rightfully claim within the described limits, and for laying off for the benefit of said inhabitants three addition- al tracts adjoining the several villages, Kaskaskies, la Prarie du Rochers, and Kahokia, in the form of a parallelogram, extending from the river Mississippi eastward to the ridge of rocks before described, and of such extent as shall contain four hundred acres for each of the families now living at either of the villages of Kaskaskies, la Prarie du Rochers, Kahokias, fort Chartres or St. Phillips. The additional reserved tract adjoining the village of Kaskaskies shall be for the heads of families in that village, the tract adjoining la Prairie du Rochers for the heads of families in that village, and the tract adjoining Kahokia for the heads of families in that village, as also for those at fort Chartres and St. Philips. Such additional donations of four hundred acres each, to be distributed by lot, and immediate possession given: Provided
Page 482
48a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS nevertheless, that no person thus obtaining possession of such dona- tion lands shall have power to alienate the same, until he or she, or his or her heirs have resided at least three years from the time of such distribution within that district; at the end of which period every such resident shall obtain a title to the reserved lot; and all lots not thus conveyed to residents, shall revert to the United States. That whenever the French and Canadian Inhabitants, or other settlers aforesaid, shall have been confirmed in their possessions and titles, and the amount of the same ascertained, and the three additional parallelograms for future donations, and a tract of land one mile square on the Mississippi, extending as far above as below fort Chartres, and including the said fort, the buildings and improvements adjoining the same, shall be laid off; the whole remainder of the soil within the re- served limits above described, shall be considered as appertaining to the general purchase, and shall be conveyed accordingly. That measures be immediately taken to extinguish the Indian claim, if any such claim exists to the land bordering on the Mississippi from the mouth of the Ohio to a determined station on the Mississippi, that shall be sixty or eighty miles north from the mouth of the Illinois river, and extending from the Mississippi as far eastward as may be. That the Governor of the western territory be instructed to repair to the French settlements on the Mississippi, at and above the Kaskas- kies; — That he examine the titles and possessions of the settlers as above described, in order to determine what quantity of land they may severally claim, which shall be laid off for them at their own expence, and that he take an account of the several heads of families living within the reserved limits, in order that he may determine the quantity of land that is to be laid off in the several parallelograms, which shall be laid off accordingly by the Geographer of the United States, or his assistant, at the expence of the United States. That the Geographer of the United States be instructed to take the latitude of the mouth of the river au Vase, and the mouth of Wood river, and of the north-east and south-eastern angle of the tract, and that in executing all other large surveys, he take the latitude of three or four of the chief corners." Resolved, That Congress agree to the said Report.1 1 This was passed and became the basis of future negotiations. The actual settlement of the grant to the Illinois people was not finished until years after. Consult Index of Amer. State Papers, Public Lands, vols. i. and ii. For the alterations in the bill, made August 28,_ 1788, see post, p. 490, and for that made March 3, 1701, Sen. Jour. 3d. Sess., 1st Cong. (Washington, 1820), p. 30». There is an account of these landgrants written by E.G.Mason in Chicago Hist. Society's Collections, It., 192.
Page 483
A MEMORIAL, JUNE 25, 1788 483 Memorial of George Morgan, June 25, 1788. [C. C. Pp., xli., 6, 510.—A. L. s.] To the United States in Congress assembled The Memorial of George Morgan, Agent of the New Jersey Land Society, Respectfully sheweth, That your Memorialist hath not yet made Proposals to the Treasury Board, for the Land described in the late Ordinance of Congress, on Account of its not authorising the Board, to give the Right of immediate Entry & Occupancy. This being an indispensible Stipulation in be- half of the New Jersey Land Society, your Memorialist wishes to give Congress ample satisfaction, of the Propriety of granting this Indulgence in the present Instance. Your Memorialist therefore respectfully prays to be heard by a Committee, or that the Treasury Board may be directed to give the Right of Entry & Occupancy required, on being satisfied as to the Propriety of the Measure. If Congress shall be pleased to grant this Proposition, your Memo- rialist further begs leave to pray, (in case Messrs. Flint & Parker have relinquished, or shall relinquish their Application for Lands North of Wood River) that the New Jersey Land Societys Northern Boundary may then be the Parallel of the Latitude of the Mouth of the first Brook or Rivulet which empties into the Missisippi River, above Cape au Grés: The Boundaries of the whole Tract applied for, in behalf of the New Jersey Land Society, will then be as follow: Beginning at the River Vase, in the Parallel of the Mouth of little Wabash River; thence, North, to the Parallel of the Mouth of the first Rivulet or Brook, emptying into the Missisippi River, above Cape au Grés; thence, West, to the Mouth of the said Rivulet or Brook; thence down the said Missisippi River, along the Boundary Line of the United States, to the River Vase; thence up the River Vase to the Place of Beginning. On Congress granting these Indulgences, Your Memorialist, in be- half of the New Jersey Land Society, is ready to close a Contract with the Treasury Board, for the above described Lands, under all the other Reservations & Conditions mentioned in the late Ordinance: The first Payment of one hundred & fifty thousand Dollars to be made on the first day of next. George Morgan New York June 25th, 1788
This page contains an image.
Page 484
484 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS N. B. It is to be understood that the Society do not solicit the right of entry or occupancy before the Indian Claim if any such exists shall have been extinguished by the United States or their Officer or Agent. George Morgan. Objections by George Morgan, no date. [C. C. Pp., xli.,6,si4.] Reasons why it will not suit the New Jersey Society to make the proposed Purchase, in Case they are not allowed to include the Vacant Lands bordering on the Missisippi River Northward & from 5 to 7 Miles in breadth. First. The extreme unhealthyness of this Country arises from these Lands being unimproved; the richest parts of them being Swamps & Ponds; which, being stagnant, corrupt the Air & produce malignant Distempers from June 'till November: The Indolence of the present Inhabitants will never remove this Evil, nor will any prudent Men ever make a Settlement in this Country without having it in their Power to drain these Lakes & Marshes for their own Advantage. Second. As the first Settlers on the high Lands must depend on these low grounds for Meadow, the Society do not wish to be in this Predica- ment, without obtaining a Grant of the low vacant Lands from Congress. Third. Although there are more than two hundred thousand Acres of this low swamp & Meadow Lands in one Body, 80 miles in Length & 5 or 6 broad, the French Inhabitants have no Grants or Claims for more than thirty thousand Acres, of which they have never cultivated more than six thousand. Fourth. Whether Congress grant this Body of Low Lands, or not, to the present french Inhabitants it is believed that o/ioths of them will go and settle with their Countrymen on the West Side of the Missisippi River, to which they have more Inducements than One: And on this Principle it has been proposed by their own Agent here, to form a Com- pany to purchase all their Rights immediately on obtaining the Grant from Congress; as it is his Opinion they will sell for a much less Price than Congress will grant for, to the New Jersey Society. For these Reasons, the New Jersey Society flatter themselves that Congress will be pleased to direct the Treasury Board to agree with their Agent for the Lands they have applied for on the Terms proposed in
This page contains an image.
Page 485
A MEMORIAL, JULY 8, 1788 485 their 1st, 2d or 3d Proposition: "saving & reserving to the present french Inhabitants & others, all their just and legal Claims." And moreover reserving (should Congress think proper) to the said Inhabi- tants a Right to become Shareholders, on equal Terms with the said Society to any Number of Shares of two hundredth Parts, not exceeding Provided they or any Person in their behalf shall within Years from this date, subscribe to the Terms of Payment agreed to be made by the Society, & to their Agreement for an equal Distribution of the Lands: In which Case the Society shall have Credit for the Amount of the Shares so subscribed for, & on failure of such Subscription, or on Nonperformance of the Terms, the said New Jersey Society shall be entitled to the whole Tract on the Terms & Conditions above mentioned. George Morgan, Agent— To the Honble. Committee of Congress on the Memorial of the New Jersey Society & their Application for 2,000,000 Acres of Land. [Endorsed:] Mr. Morgan's Objection to excluding the low Ground on the Missisippi from his Purchase. Memorial by Barthelemi Tardiveau, July 8, 1788. [M. C, T. MSS.—A. L. S.1] To the Honorable The Congress of the United-States of North- America The Memorial of the french inhabitants of the Illinois Humbly She wet h That they have seen in the public prints of this City a Report of a Committee, which has been agreed to by Congress, for disposing of a certain tract of territory therein described to George Morgan and his associates.2 Your Memorialists observe with a due sense of gratitude that in this Ordinance there is a reserve made in their behalf, with an intention not only to secure to them their ancient rights and possessions, but further to grant to each head of a family the additional quantity of four hundred acres. We have been given to understand that the Honorable the Con- gress would have treated us with much more liberality, and granted us 1 The fair copy, of which this is the original, is in C. C. Pp., xli., 175. sSee ante, p. 479 tt uq.

This page contains an image.
Page 486
486 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS the full quantity of five hundred acres to every male inhabitant which we have demanded by our several Petitions and Memorials, had it not been for theTtirarfollowing reasons: ttW; Ulal UUr AffllU Had UlU nilti- funuui! tu glvu uffyiiu' tu the Hutiuiable tlie Cuugtesy by yuuiu expittisluusj 111 tl Ml'ilturlul uf May tile ly'*1.' seiuudly, first, that it has been asserted that hT^ ourTSW Agent, was endeavouring to form a company for pur- chasing the lands that might be granted to the inhabitants of these districts; and lastly, secondly, that it has been denied that the said inhabitants had Suffer'd any losses by the troops of Virginia. respect to the first article, Your Memorialists beg leav, observe that)*rf>4heconduct of their Agent has been any wav>«!?cept ion- able, he alone ought>»s4uffer for his imprudence^^Mflîatever he may have said, the principles, eïthia^of justice^prlîenevolence, by which Congress might have been before înJtM^çed to listen to our Petitions, cannot be weaken'd by thefa>*lf^if any naSS^gncommitted) of one man. The resentmen^f^ongress may fall upon ntrft"«iQgly; but the interests of awjiarepeople, we hunbly apprehend, ought nof^Wb^uffer from tb>^Srrnth of an individual, which, we are confident, wasn? lit to create uneasiness. The second With respect to the first article, that charge is peremp- torily denied by our Agent; and he thinks that it ought to have been openly supported and himself confronted with the man or men to whom he is suppos'd to have made a proposal of that Kind. But, should it even be the case; had he attempted, and succeeded in making up an association that was able to purchase not only the lands which we expected to obtain from Congress, but also those we already possess, our farms, cattle, negroes, and any other kind of property; how could these his manoeuvers affect our just or equitable claims? if Congress thought, before that assertion, that we were entitled, either by right, or by the merit of our attachment and hopes, to a gift of land; did that right or that merit become nul, the moment a man had formed the pro- ject of acquiring lawfully a property which we would certainly have had the pow'r to dispose of? the right of buying and selling have not ceased to be a right of the citizen. Let this be as it will, our Agent positively affirms that he has never endeavoured, directly or indirectly, to form any company for that purpose. The assertion that the inhabitants of the Illinois have lost no prop- 1 Printed ante, p. 475.

1
This page contains an image.
Page 487
A MEMORIAL, JULY 8, 1788 487 erty by the troops of Virginia is indeed astonishing; but new as it is it has, it seems, been powerful enough to defeat the good intentions of Congress towards us. Were the plains we inhabit situated in China or Japan, the veil of doubt might perhaps, at this distance, be cast upon the injuries we have suffer'd but we are a part of the United-States; but thousands of Americans have been among us & born witness to our wrongs; but they stand recorded and may be ascertain'd by the Gov- ernor of the Western territory. Our Agent has now in his possession a number of bills drawn on the treasurer of Virginia by the Command- ing officer of the troops of that State, unpaid to this day; which bills, amounting to Sixteen thousand Dollars, are but a trifling part of the advances made by us to those troops, belong to four only of our citizens, and serve at least to prove that some property has been obtained from us for nothing. Your Memorialists still hope that the Honorable the Congress will condescend to reexamine the facts; and more expecially that which is so universally Known throughout the whole Western country, namely that the inhabitants of the Illinois have advanc'd to the troops of Vir- ginia, furrs, peltries, merchandise, provisions, cash, to a very consider- able amount, for which they have never receiv'd any compensation; and that, in consequence of such inquiry, they may be treated with that liberality which they expect from the Honorable the Congress. Independent of the above considerations, Your Memorialists beg leave to remark that, for want of a sufficient knowledge of our country, the Honorable the Congress, notwithstanding the good intention which has induced them to grant an addition of four hundred acres to each head of a family in these districts, have in fact granted nothing at all; in particular to the inhabitants of Kaskaskia. The parallelogram allotted them is to be included within a tract defined between the Missis- sippi and a line drawn from the mouth of the River à Marie to the old french fort, thence North three miles, thence West to the foot of the ledge of rocks, then along the same to the territory of la prairie du Roch- er, and to the Mississipi. This description contains no lands but what are already & have been long since possess'd by the ancient inhabitants, a few narrow strips excepted, further, the line so drawn to the old fort, thence three miles North, & so forth, leaves to the Eastward of it and within the purchase of George Morgan & his associates several tracts and plantations, the property of the ancient french inhabitants, and a
This page contains an image.
Page 488
488 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS number of grants made by the County-lieutenant of the Illinois in behalf of the State of Virginia to Sundry Americans, previous to the year 1783. The condition annex'd to the Grant intended to be made us by Con- gress, that we shall remain three years in the country or lose the benefit of it, was indeed a very desirable one for those who wish to make settle- ments in our neighborhood, and are perhaps apprehensive that they would not easily succeed in it, should we remove our habitations and cease to protect them from the Indians; but we cannot well reconcile it in our minds with the laws of the land. When grants of lands are made to the citizens, it is very just that they should be obliged to make improvements on the same within a given time: but, whether the improvement & Settlement be made by the original Grantee, or by his Agent, assignee, or purchaser from him, appears to have been indifferent to all the Legislatures of these States, and is perfectly So in the eyes of reason. In this particular, again, Your Memorialists find themselves in a Situation perhaps unexperienced before by any body of men living under a regular government. There is an Ordinance of Congress, an Ex post facto law, of April 1787,1 which declares that Slavery Shall not take place in the Western territory. Many of the inhabitants of these districts have Slaves, and Some have no other property but Slaves. If they wish to preserve their property, they must transport themselves to the Spanish Side of the Mississipi; but if they do, they Shall lose the lands granted them by Congress. One law tells them: leave the country, or ye Shall forfeit your negroes: the other Saith; Stay in the country, or your lands shall be taken from ye. Your Memorialists content themselves with Stating the facts; and relying entirely upon the wisdom & justice of the Honorable the Con- gress, they, as in duty bound, will ever pray for the honor, glory, & welfare of the United-States of North-America July 8th 1788 By order & in behalf of the french inhabitants of the Illinois B: Tardiveau Agent. 1 "Ordinance of 178;," paued July 13, 1787.
This page contains an image.
Page 489
A MEMORIAL, AUGUST 8, 1788 489 Royal Flint to President of Congress, August 8,1788. [C. C. Pp., xli., 3, 370.— A. L. S.] New York August 8, 1788 Sir, Your Excellency will receive inclosed a memorial praying that I may be heard before the honorable committee which reported on the appli- cation of George Morgan for the purchase of a tract of western territory. I have the honor to be, [etc.] Royal Flint. His Excellency the President of Congress Memorial of Royal Flint, August 8, 1788 [C. C. Pp., xli., 3, 366.—A. L. S.] To the Honorable the Congress of the United States. The memorial of Royal Flint for himself & associates most respect- fully sheweth, That your memorialist has been informed, that the report of your honorable committee, on the application of George Morgan, for the purchase of a tract of western territory, mry tend to create some doubt in the construction of certain reports & resolves relative to proposals submitted to the Honorcble Congress, by your memorialist & Joseph Parker, the 18th of October last.1 Your memorialist therefore humbly prays that he may be heard before the said Committee & mentions his reasons for an amendment to their report previous to its being passed into an act, and your memo- rialist as in duty bound shall every pray. Royal Flint for himself & associates. New York —August 8, 1788 [Endorsement:] Memorial of Royal Flint Read 11. Aug. 1788 Referred to Mr Williamson Mr. Otis Mr. Baldwin 1 Printed ante, p. 449.
This page contains an image.
Page 490
490 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Report of Committee on Sale of Land to Morgan and the Illinois Grants, August 28, 1788. [Reprinted from Journals oj Congress, xiii., 90.] On the report of a committee, consisting of Mr. Williamson, Mr. Otis and Mr. Baldwin, to whom was recommitted a report on the me- morial of George Morgan, and sundry other papers. Resolved, That the board of treasury be, and they hereby are authorized in contracting with George Morgan and his associates, or with any other person or persons, for the sale of a tract of land on the Mississippi, which is described in the act of June 20th last,1 to vary in the following particulars from the terms proposed in the said act, viz. A payment of 200,000 dollars shall be made on closing the contract, the remainder of the price to be paid in seven equal payments, the first of which shall be paid whenever the Indian title, if any such there is, shall be extinguished, and a survey of the tract returned to the treasury- office. The other six payments to be made half-yearly, with interest from the time in which the survey is returned. On making the first payment, entries shall be permitted on so much land as that sum is equal to, at the limited price. On making the second payment, a deed shall issue for so much land as may then be paid for, and other deeds if required shall issue on making the several payments: Provided that it is previously stipulated on what part the first deed shall be laid, and that every subsequent deed shall be for a regular tract, as nearly as may be of an equal width, extending from the Mississippi to the eastern boundary of the general purchase, and that the several deed be for tracts in contact with one another. That in case of failure in any one of the payments stipulated for, the contract shall be considered as for- feited in all the parts thereof, which shall then remain to be carried into effect.2 That instead of the three parallelograms to be reserved according to the act of the 20th June last, for donations to the ancient settlers on the west side of a certain ridge of rocks, there shall be reserved an equal quantity of land for the same use, to be laid out in three squares on the east side of the said ridge of rocks, and as near as may be to the 1 Printed ante, p. 479. a Morgan and his associates refused to enter into this contract. _ (Sec following document.) Mor- gan became interested in, and must have been at this time negotiating for a settlement on the Spanish side of the Mississippi (New Madrid). See ante, p. 3, n. 1.

Page 491
A MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER 17, 1788 491 improvements belonging to the village of Kaskaskies, la Prarie du Rochers, and Kahokia.1 That in case there are any improvements belonging to the ancient French settlers without the general reserved limits, the same shall also be considered as reserved for them in the sale now proposed to be made. Memorial by Barthelemi Tardiveau, September 17, 1788. [C. C. Pp., 111., Kaskaskia and Ky., xlviii., 233.—A. L. S.] To the Honorable the Congress of the United-States of North- America. The Memorial of the French and American inhabitants of the Illinois and Poste Vincennes Humbly Sheweth That an unexpected alteration of circumstances having made it necessary for them once more to call on your attention, they flatter them- selves that this new application, though late, will not appear unreason- able. The Resolve passed by Your Honorable body for selling a certain tract of land in the Illinois country to George Morgan and his associates has provided that the possessions claimed by the inhabitants and in- cluded within the bounds of his purchase should be respectively reserv'd to the claimants; and likewise that a parallelogram containing four hundred acres for every head of a family at Kaskaskia should be run off within the said bounds, and as near the village as possible. No particular Resolve or Ordinance having been passed by the Honorable the Congress in behalf of the inhabitants of these districts, but what was a modification and an appendage of that in favour of G. Morgan and his associates, and that Company having thought fit to decline ratifying the purchase intended by them to be made of a large propor- tion of our territory, Your Memorialists apprehend that the partial Superstructure of the reservations made for them tumbles to the ground along with the main fabrick.' If so, there is still room left for un- certainty; there is still room left for hope. We say hope, for Your Memorialists think, with all due deference, that the quantities of lands granted them by Your Honorable Body, especially when shackled with 'This was repealed by Act of March 3, t7qi. and the governor of the territory was instructed to lay out the tracts in accordance with Act of June 30, 1788. Ante, p. 479; Sen. Jour., 3d Sess.. id Cong., 303. 71 have been unable to find any action by Congress on this petition and probably no action was considered necessary.
This page contains an image.
Page 492
49» ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS ihc conditions annex'd to the possession of them, are rather inadequate to what they conceived themselves entitled to by their loses. It is need- less, and would be very disagreable for Your Memorialists, in this late stage of the business to run over again the long list of the injuries they have suffer'd, and on which they have sufficiently dwelt in former Me- morials. The purport of this is merely, since our fate seems as yet to be undecided to obtain from the Honorable the Congress suitable amendments in those parts of their Resolve which, upon reexamination, may be found disproportionate to the merits of our pleas, and a final determination of our destiny on our own bottom. In this inquiry, we trust that the Honorable the Congress will be pleas'd to keep in mind the following circumstances; That we have lost a very considerable property, either extorted from us by main force, or obtain'd by delusive engagements which acquired with us their sacredness from the respect we had for the faith of the United-States; That we have chearfully and in many instances sacrificed the shatter'd remains of our pristine wealth for diverting war-parties of Indians from their intended excursions into the infant settlements of our neighbours; That the Charter formerly given by the French King to the Jesuits at Kaskaskia and which was of four leagues square or ninety two thousand one hundred and sixty acres in superficies,1 far exceed the extent of the parallelogram reserved for the heads only of families, the number of these being but small in proportion to that of the males in the respective districts of the Illinois; That this grant having been made to the Jesuits in order to enable them to teach us and our children, and otherwise discharge their duties as Ministers of the church, since we are now obliged to maintain our priests out of the produce of our own industry, that same Charter, which was forfeited to the Jesuits in consequence of their expulsion from all the dominions of the King of France, ought, if not in a legal, at least in an equitable point of view, to appertain to the inhabitants of Kaskaskia; That, had four hundred acres been granted to all the males in this vil- lage without exception, the whole extent of the Donation would even then have fallen short of that of the Charter by Sixteen thouzand acres, the number of French males at Kaskaskia being One hundred and 1 Captain Pittman, who was in Kaskaskia shortly after the sale of the Jesuit lands by the French commandant, writes: "The Jesuit plantation consisted of two hundred and forty arpents of cultivated land, a very good stock of cattle, and a brewery." Philip Pittman, Present State of the European Settlements on the Mississippi (ed. by F. H. Hodder), p. 85; see also Thwaites, Jesuit Relations, Ixx., n. 46, lxxi., p. 39.

This page contains an image.
Page 493
A MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER 17, 1788 493 Ninety one only; That a similar reasoning may be made with regard to the inhabitants of Prairie du rocher, Cahokia, and more forcibly with respect to those of Poste Vincennes who, having given up a Charter of upwards of Nine millions of acres,1 will not receive, in compensation for that and all their losses, much above Sixty thouzand acres, the num- ber of the heads of families these not exceeding One hundred and fifty, though the whole number of males amount to Six hundred and twenty three French and Americans; And finally, that three hundred and twelve thouzand acres for the French and Americans at Poste Vin- cennes, and three hundred and twenty eight thouzand for all the French and Americans in the four different districts of the Illinois, would have fully satisfied the expectations and eased the minds of the inhabitants of those ancient settlements. Your Memorialists hope that the Honorable the Congress will at least be pleas'd to extend their liberality to all those males who have attain'd the age at which they are obliged by law to step forth in the defence of the community. Above all, Your Memorialists humbly beg that the Honorable the Congress may please to abrogate that part of their Resolve which binds them to a three years residence in the country in order to be entitled to the property of the lands granted them; to repeal or modify that article of the Ordinance of Congress of last year which respects the slavery of Negroes in the Western territory, so far as it operates as an Ex post facto law; and lastly, to determine on the merits of our many Petitions and Memorials, independent of any bar- gain made or to be made with individuals, by which we might be left at their mercy more than we are satisfied it is the intention of Congress that we should. Your Memorialists, as in duty bound, will ever pray for the glory and welfare of the United-States By order and in behalf of the French and American inhabitants of the Illinois and Poste Vincennes B: Tardiveau agent. New york Sepr. 17th 1788. [Endorsed:] Memorial Mr Tardiveau Agent 1 This claim is set forth in a memorial, dated November 20, 1793, and printed in Amer. State Papers, Pub. Lands, I., 32. The claim is, that the Piankeshaw Indians gave the Inhabitants the land in 1742. The deed was never produced, because, according to the claim, a notary ran off with the records. The story is very suspicious, for according to the French viewpoint all land discovered by the French belonged to the royal domain, and a title to any land could only be obtained by a grant from the king. For a view favorable to the claim of the people of Vincennes, see Dunn, J. P., Indiana, 99 el sea.
This page contains an image.
Page 494
494 ILLLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS — Inhabitants of Illinois and St. Vincents — Read Sepr. 17th. 1788 Referred to Mr Clark Mr Williamson Mr Madison Reported — Sept. 1788 — Some Lost Letters Concerning Tardiveau's Mission. [Reprinted from Doherty, D. J., "Kaskaskia the Ancient," in U. S. Cath. Hist. Mag., iv., pp. 40-45.1] "The Gentlemen who watched the interests of these inhabitants before Congress was Mons. B. Tardiveau. I have read his letters to Mons. James Beauvais of Kaskaskias, dated New York, 1788. Mons. Tardiveau's object was to obtain for each inhabitant five hundred arpents of land, but he had to endure a great deal of delay and hindrance from the committee which had the matter in hand, from the absence of members of Congress, and especially from the counter lobbying of Col. Morgan, who, according to these letters, seems to have been a huge land grabber. Finally the committee reported in favor of four hundred arpents to each male inhabitant. But Mr. Tardiveau states that he had shown to the president and other members that the additional hundred arpents which he sought was merely "une bagatelle pour le Congrés," and he hoped to obtain the full five hundred. — The intrigues of Col. Morgan are interesting. He had many private inter- views with Mr. Tardiveau in which he stated: First, that it was certain congress would grant nothing; second, that he (Morgan) with two hun- dred other persons of means was about to purchase two million arpents of land in Illinois; third, that Mons. Tardiveau ought to cease prose- cuting his mission and ought to join the company which would sell the land at reasonable rates to the inhabitants. Mr. Tardiveau refused. His enemies then said that he was going to form a society to buy the land as soon as granted — that besides the French settlers were going across the river to the Spanish territory, and that, anyhow, they had never lost anything by the troops of Clark. Mons. Tardiveau was in despair. He says sadly: "Le Col. Morgan avait trouvé le secret de les interesser trop fortement; il leur a fait faire tout ce qu'il a voulu. Tout 1 This paper was read before the Missouri Hist. Society, February 15, 1872, and reported in the St. Louis Republican, February 19, and afterwards reprinted in above. This is only an extract. 1
This page contains an image.
Page 495
LETTERS CONCERNING TARDIVEAU'S MISSION 495 a été unique dans cette affaire, et j'ai de bonnes raisons pour croire que plusieurs des membres du Congress y sont intéressés."l He hoped that the new confédération and the new congress would be more just.3 1 Translation: "Col. Morgan had found the secret of interesting them toostrongly; bemadethem do everything he wanted. Ail has been unique in this affair, and I hâve good reasons to believe that several members of Congress are interested in it." J Unfortunately the letters of the Bauvais family have been lost.
This page contains an image.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 496
CHAPTER XIV THE CLIMAX OF ANARCHY, AUGUST, 1787 TO MARCH 5, 1790 Justice by Arbitration — The Letters of Major Hamtramck — The Emigration to the Spanish Bank — The Hostility of the Indians — A New Court at Vincennes — The Question of Slavery in the Northwest — A Petition for Help from Kaskaskia — John Edgar Describes Conditions — John Rice Jones Writes of the Anarchy. The End of a Suit at Law, May 2, 1788. [K. MSS.— D. S.] Nous Jurés Nommé Par La Cour Des KasKasKia dépendance des Ill- inois En vertu d'une sentence En datte Du huit du Courant m[ois] a l'effet de nous assembler pour terminer Le[s] Contestations & différents qui subsistent entre Le sr Jonh [sic] edgard negt demeurant En Ce lieu au Nom & Comme demandeur Pour les héritiers Crely En Vertu des pou- voirs & vante qui nous ont été exhibé d'une part & Le sr Nicolas La- hanse dit Cayott aussy demeurant Cy devant Dans Cette dépendance d'autre part, Cest a sçavoir qu[e] Corne le sr Jonh edgard En vertu De ses deme[nde] Pour être reintégré au nom Corne dessus & [MS. lorn] En possession Des biens De la veuve Crely & notament Dune habitation [Translation.] We, the arbiters named by the Court of Kaskaskia, dependency of the Illinois, in virtue of a decree, dated the 8th of the present month, to summon us to terminate the disputes and disagreements which exist between Mr. John Edgar, merchant living in this place, in the name of and as plaintiff for the heirs of M. Crely by reason of his power of attorney and bill of sale, which have been shown us, on the one part, and M. Nicolas Caillot dit Lachanse, also formerly a resident of this dependency, on the other part, let it be known that M. John Edgar in virtue of his petition to be reinstated in the above named title and [put] in possession of the property of the widow Crely and especially of a 496
Page 497
END OF A SUIT AT LAW, MAY 2, 1788 497 terre maison Circonstances & dépendances qui lui seroit échu Dans Le partage qu'elle auroit fait avec ses Enfans Le Vingt quatre aoust mil sept Cent soixante deux suivant L'invantaire de ce Même Jour Par Le quel elle reconoit Conjointement avec ses Enfans quil c'etoit p[our] sa part & portion une somme de Vingt c[MS. lorn] mille huit cent trente huit livres dix sols En argent y Compris son douaire & preciput Dont elle reconoit Dêtre mise En possession & que depuis la moment & pendent quelle é[toit] En Jouissance du dit bien, La ditte dame Crely a tombé En démence & Inhabile D'aliéner ses biens Ainsy quil nous La par [MS. torn] par Les pièces mises sous nos yeux & Encore par L'Iregularité D'une vante faite Par La ditte dame Crely En datte Deux mars mil sept Cent soixante quatorze ou il paroit que Le sr Lachance N'auroit point signé L'acceptation de la ditte vante faitte par La ditte dame En sa faveur pour une somme de quatre mille Livres En argent ainsy quil nous a été Exposé par La requette En demande En datte de Ce Jour par Le sr Jonh edgard a l'encontre du sr nicolas Caillot Dit Lachance, qui na point Comparu a La Cour ce Jourdhuy pour présenter ses de- fences & après avoir pris Connoissance & Demandé a l'huissier toul- [Translation.] dwelling house, grounds, and other appurtenances which became her portion at the division which was made with her children on August 24, 1762, according to the inventory made on the same day by which she recognized conjointly with her children that there was [as] her part and portion a sum of twenty- [five] thousand eight hundred and thirty- eight livres ten sols in money, her dowry and jointure therein included, and she recognized that she had been put in possession thereof; and [that it is further known] that from the moment and during the time that the said property has been in her possession, the said Madame Crely has been out of her mind and incapable of alienating her property. It has also [been shown] us by the documents before us and also by the irregularity of a sale made by the said Madame Celry, dated March 2, 1774, wherein it appears that M. Lachanse has never signed the accept- ance of the said sale made by the said Madame Crely in his favor for the sum of four thousand livres in money, as has been shown us also by the prayer in the pétition of M. John Edgar, of this day's date, in op- position to M. Nicolas Caillot dit Lachanse who has not appeared before the Court to-day to présent his défense. After we have taken
Page 498
498 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS ouze si La signification avoit été faite au dit sr Lachance de Com- paroitre Cejourdhuy, & a quoi II nous auroit repondu que oui, Vu lexamen des pices & titres & notament La demande faite par Le sr Edgar par requette qui Nous a été lue & Interpreté Par autorité De la Cour Ce jourdhuy En sa presence Nous Jurés Comme Dessus avons opiné & opinions que pour faire droit suivant Notre ame & conscience & après avoir examiné La nulité de L'acte de vante faitte par la dame Crely veuve de Jean Baptiste Crely pour par Le dit sr nicolas Caillot dit Lachance n'avoir pas accepté la ditte vante conformement a la Coutume de paris & Encore après avoir avon mis En Consideration que si semblable acte pouvoit avoir Lieu & sortir son plein & Entier Effet, Il paroit que la ditte dame étoit En demence, avoit L'esprit aliené, lors De la transaction & possession De l'acte de vante En faveur Du dit nicolas Caillot dit Lachance par la ditte veuve Crely Ce qui est demontré par une requette presenté par gabriel aubuchon Mari En seconde noce De la ditte veuve Crely aux fins De reclamer pour la ditte [Translation.] cognizance thereof and inquired of the huissier Toulouze if notice was served on the said M. Lachanse to appear to-day and we have received answer that it was, we have examined the documents and titles, especially the prayer made by M. John Edgar in his petition which, by the author- ity of the Court, has to-day been read and interpreted in his presence to us, and we the above mentioned arbiters, in order that we may do right according to our soul and conscience, after having examined the act of sale made by Madame Crely, widow of Jean Baptiste Crely, which is made null and void because the said bill of sale was not accepted by the said Nicolas Caillot dit Lachanse in conformity with the Coutume de Paris and, furthermore, after having [considered everything],1 have taken into consideration [the harm] if similar instruments could be drawn and have their full and entire effect, and have decided and do decide that it is apparent that the said lady was out of her mind and mentally deranged at the time of the transaction and [of giving the] possession of the act of sale in favor of the said Nicolas Caillot dit Lachanse by the said widow Crely. This is shown by a petition presented by Gabriel Aubuchon, the second husband of the said widow Crely, for the purpose of asking assistance — this was presented to M. de Rocheblave com- 1 The original copyist has evidently omitted something here.
Page 499
END OF A SUIT AT LAW, MAY 2, 1788 499 veu[ve] & pardevant mr de rocheblave Commandant Des KasKasKia pour lors, & Encore par les protestations postérieures faittes par Les només Baptiste Crely & françoise Crely Enfans légitimes De la ditte veuve Crely par laquelle II paroit visiblement que cette veuve ne Jouis- soit par de son Bon sens, Joignant ces Deux Causes a l'absence Du sr Nicolas Caillot dit Lachance pour debarre sa cause & Done[.wr] Les raisons quil auroit a produire pour sa defence & Justification, nous l'av[ons] Condamné par défaut D'aparition & Encore par L'Iregularité De l'acte De vante, dont l'original est sous nos yeux a la restitution d'une terre habitation maison Circontances & Dépendances situé sur la cotau [?] de pierre de l'autre bord de la rivière Kas, Conformément au titre de propriété & de Concession accordé Le Vingt quatre de may de l'an mil sept cent quarante Cinq, & Encore D'un autre morceau de terre attenant a icelui accordé Le dix de may mil sept cent quarante six par les Commandant & Comissaire des KasKasKia De ce tems, Le tout pour être remis & restitué ainsi quil est dit Cy devant aux Dits héritiers Crely & notament audit sr Jonh edgar Leur représentant En vertu Des pouvoirs & titres a nom exhibé avec Les Interests a raison de [Translation.] mandant of Kaskaskia at that time — and further by later protesta- tions made by the named Baptiste Crely and Françoise Crely, legiti- mate children, by which it was quite apparent that the widow was not in her right mind. Joining to thèse two causes the failure of M. Nic- olas Caillot dit Lachanse to défend his case and to give the arguments which he might be able to produce in his défense and justification, we have condemned him, in default of his appearance and further on ac- count of the irregularity of the act of sale, of which the original is before our eyes, to make restitution of a dwelling-house, grounds, and other appurtenances situated on the ledge of rocks on the other side of the River Kaskaskia, conforming to the title of the property and concession granted May 24, 1745, and also to make restitution of another pièce of land ad joining this, granted May 10, 1746, by the commandant and commissioner of Kaskaskia at that time. The whole is to be returned and restored, as is heretofore said, to the heirs Crely and especially to the said M. John Edgar, their représentative by power of attorney and titles as shown, with interest at 5 per cent, from the time of the death of the said widow Crely up to the day and moment he is put in possession,
This page contains an image.
Page 500
500 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Cinq pour Cent Depuis la mort Ce la Ditte veuve Crely Jusqua ce Jour & moment De mise En possession sur le prix de quatre mille Livres qu'il paroit que la Ditte terre & habitation avoit été soit disant vendue audit sr Lachance En par ce dernier payant également tout Les fraix que la présente procédure peut avoir occasioné soit au dit sr Jonh edgar ou touts autres que besoin auroit été, car ainsy avons opiné pour être notre présente Décision homologué & Confirmé Par La Cour après avoir fait droit & avons touts signé Le Deux De may de Ian mil sept cent quatre vingt huit, La moitié Des Jurés soussigné De nation française & l'autre moitié américain qui avon été Interprété Du Contenu En la présente Décision Pour être Conformé a notre unanime opinion & Comme nous Jurés assemblés n'avons rien dit touchant le surplus Du bien De la ditte veuve Crely Montant a la somme de Vingt Cinq mille huit Cent trente huit livres six sols quil paroit que La ditte dame a reçue Lors Du partage fait Entre elle & ses Enfans Nous opin[ions] Egalement que le dit sr nicolas Lachance Doit remetre & restituer tout Le bien De la ditte dame Dont il soit mis En possession Lors de sa mort qui est arive Dans La maison Du dit Lachance, En par lui payant également L'in- terest De la somme dont II peut être question aux dits Crely ou ses [ Translation.] on the sum of 4,000 livres which it appears was the sum given by the said M. Lachanse in the soi-disant sale; this latter shall likewise pay ail the expenses that the présent case can have occasioned M. John Edgar and ail other costs that have been necessary; for we have so decided, so that our présent décision may be legalized and confirmed by the Court, after having done justice; and we hâve ail signed the 2d of May, in the year 1788. One half of the undersigned arbiters were French, the other half Americans to whom has been interpreted the contents of the présent décision, in order to have it conform to our unanimous opinion. And as we, the arbiters assembled, have said nothing concerning the surplus property of the widow Crely, amounting to the sum of 25,838 livres 6 sols, which it appears that the said lady received at the time of the division made between herself and her children, we décide equally that the said Nicolas Lachanse must likewise return and restore ail the property of the said lady into the possession of which he was put at her death, which occurred in the house of the said Lachanse; and he must likewise pay the interest on the sum [concerning the amount]
This page contains an image.
Page 501
END OF A SUIT AT LAW, MAY 2, 1788 representant a raison de Cinq pour Cent depuis La mort De la ditte veuve Crely Jusqu'au moment Du parfait & Entier payement avec touts fraix qui ont put être faits pour y parvenir & avon Come dessus signé a[près] lecture prise & Interpretation faitte du Contenu pour être Egalement la presente q[MS. torn] Confirmé par la Cour le même jour & an que dessus & attend a que Dans Le Corp de Jurés assembles ici present quil s'en trouve Deux qui ne scavent pas signer Dont l'un se nome Baptiste Gendron & l'autre michel antaya, Ils Declarent lun & lautre presence de temoins avoir faits Leur marques ordinaire Dan1 McElduff Louis Lat[?] James Willey P Richard Archibald MacNabb B Richard John Clark William Bai le y Levi Theel levasseur marque De + michel antaya marque de + Jn Bte Gendron [Translation.] of which there can be a question, to the said Crely [heirs] or their repre- sentative, at the rate of five per cent from the time of the death of the said widow Crely until the moment of the perfect and full payment, together with all costs that may have been made; [and we have thus determined] after the reading and interpretation of the contents were made, so that the present may be likewise confirmed by the Court. The same year and day as the above. And it should be noticed that among the arbiters here assembled there are two who cannot sign their names, one of whom is Baptiste Gendron, and the other Michel Antaya; in the presence of witnesses they both declare they have made their marks. Daniel McElduff. James Willey. Archibald MacNabb. John Clark. William Bailey. Levi Theel. Levasseur. Louis Lat[ ?] P. Richard. B. Richard. Mark Michel + Antaya. of Mark Jn. Bte. + Gendron. of
This page contains an image.
Page 502
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Pour temoins Des marques ordinaire Sam Bradley Thos Hughes Vu par La Cours du District des Kas La presente opinion Du Corps de Jurés assemblée Par notre autorité nous Lavons Omologé et omolo- gons pour sortir son Plain Et Entier Effet et en tout cas d être Con- traint par toutte voix de droit Donné a la Cour tenante Vendredy deux du present mois. KasKasKias Le 2 may 1788 antolne Bauvais presidans [Translation.] Witnesses for the customary marks, Sam Bradley. Thos. Hughes. The Court of the District of Kaskaskia having seen the present de- cision of the arbiters assembled by our authority, we have confirmed and do confirm it so that it may have its full and entire effect and that coercion by every way of justice may be used in every case. Done in the session of the Court, Friday, 2d of the present month. Kaskaskia, May 2, 1788. Antoine Bauvais, President. Major John Hamtramck1 to General Josiah Harmar, March 28, 1789. [Draper MSS., 2W17-20.— Copy*]. Fort Knox at Post Vincennes, Feb.3 28th 1789. Dear General, Capt. Bradford arrived at Fort Knox on the 26th, with his company in perfect order without any accident. Capt. Bradford delivered me your letter of the 15th February. The last I had the honor to write you was in January — since which nothing of consequence has happened . . . I am very glad the grand treaty was concluded without accident, for I have been informed this winter by some Indians that the Nations 1 After Genera! Harmar's departure from Vincennes. Major Hamtramck was placed in command of that village. * The copies of all Hamtramck's letters, here printed, were made by Dr. L. C. Draper from the Harmar collection. The omissions are due to the copyist. 8 Dr. L. C. Draper notes that this should be March according to letter by Hamtramck written in April.
This page contains an image.
Page 503
HAMTRAMCK TO HARMAR, MARCH 28, 1789 503 had directions from the English not to agree to anything unless the north side of the Ohio was made their boundary, and that if it was refused to compel us by immediately attacking our garrisons and settlements. Another treaty is called by the English at la Roche du Bout in the Spring; (this information I do not give for certain). . . . I am fearful that the Governor will not find many people in the Illinois, as they are daily going on the Spanish side. I believe that all our Americans of Post Vincennes will go to Morgan — a number of them are already gone to see him. I am told that Mr Morgan has taken unwarrantable measures to invite the people of the Illinois to come to him, saying that the Governor would never come in that country, & that their negroes were all free the moment the government should be established — for which all the remaining good inhabitants propose to go to him. I cannot give you this for certain; I will know better in a short time, & inform you. I shall again inform myself of the certainty of the Kickapoos defeat- ing our boats. Some of the Petowatomies, who sent me a message offering to come under the protection of the United States, have been at war in Ken- tucky, headed by one of their Chiefs, La Grande Coiiete;* this party was overtaken on their return by a body of militia, & killed the Chief & wounded four of his warriors. This information I had by a letter I received from Jean Baptiste Constans of Weeya. . . . I enclose a number of papers which I got from one Dolman who lives with the Shawanese; he tells me that he had been with you last summer. Wm Simmons, a young man, is prisoner at Detroit; John White, a young man, at the Miami; M™ Brian at the Delaware Town; and one Charles Heart, of Wheeling, is at the Miami Town. . . . La Grosse Tête, a Pyankeshaw Chief, who killed a man & young boy at Sullivan's Station last year, is now in confinement. Last sum- mer I sent you the deposition relative to this affair. Two reasons have induced me to take him prisoner — first, that the first Chief of that nation is a man of reason & good Indian, to whom I can represent the conduct of some of his chiefs & demand of him satisfaction for the blood of those people that this prisoner has murdered; & will give so much solemnity to the affair as to make the nation believe that his par* Grand Court? L. C. Draper's note.
This page contains an image.
Page 504
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS don will be the last act of lenity of the United States, if they do not change their conduct. Another reason was, that I had nothing to fear from their resentment, for they are very inconsiderable in numbers, & I am sure the whole nation will be with me in a few days crying for mercy — but after all I wish I could hang the rascal. Since writing the above, I have received a letter from a Frenchman respecting the Petowatomies; he tells me that he can bring seven villages. I shall amuse him until I am able to accept of them; for the present it is out of the question, for, for those people amunition is wanted (that I have not), as well as provision, presents, &c. Some Frenchmen from the Weeya arrived the 27th; they tell me for certain, that the Weeya Indians, as well as some of other villages, are gone to war, & that some are for this place. . . . Mr Henry, of this village, has made his exit. Major John Hamtramck to John Wyllys, May 27, 1789. [Draper MSS., 2W39-43.— Copy.1] Fort Knox, at Post Vincennes, May 27th 1789. Dear Wyllys, A number of events compel me to send an express to the Falls. I informed you in my last that by every information I had obtained, I had reason to suppose that the Indians of the Wabash and Miami were badly disposed. They have (to my mortification) not disappointed me; for, for some days past, they have killed a number of people. The discrimination of the French & English is done with; the negroes are the only ones who have a chance of their lives — I suppose, because they sell well. On the 16th instant a Frenchman, who lived on the other side of the river, was killed in the night; his wife & two children were scalped & wounded — the woman & one child are still alive. On the 24th. four French pirogues were defeated 7 leagues from here; 4 men were killed, 3 mortally wounded; one is prisoner, & the remainder made their escape to the village. The first was done by the Indians of La Riviere a I'Augille; & the other by the Weeyas. Henry Richards, for whom you was a god-father, is also killed; & a number of others have been made prisoners. I shall send to the Indian towns & try to stop their carnage. 1 Enclosed by Major Wyllys to General Harmar.
Page 505
HAMTRAMCK TO WYLLYS, MAY 27, 1789 505 But now to the point. Yesterday a Frenchman, in whom, from his general character, I must put confidence, informed me that he had that day gone to the woods, & that four Indians came to him, & finding him to be one of their parents, told him "we will not hurt you, but you must tell our parents in the village (meaning a number of French families with whom they were related), that we are sorry for their situation, for the Indians from above are coming at the latter end of this moon (this is the commencement) to strike on the village." This news, my friend, may, or may not, be true. I have found by experience that many Indian news have proved to be false; also others have been true. I think, however, that an officer should always prepare for the worse, & I shall do it. I am no ways concerned for the garrison, provided I have provision. I would therefore beg of you to send me a supply immediately; & it must arrive in 16, 18 or 20 days from this; for if it cannot be here at that time my opinion (with submission to yours) would be not to send any till you heard from me — for, if the place should be invaded before it arrives, & that it should be coming up, it would inevitably fall in the hands of the Indians. But on the other hand, if nothing should happen, we can get supplies from the village, such as it is. But the most important question to us must remain undetermined, if the provision should not come in time, & that we should be attacked. Time does not permit me to write to the General. I never had so much business as I have had this day, but I mean that you will send him this immediately or an extract of it. Inform the troops at the Miami to keep a good lookout. I cannot send a report of the provision to the General, for there is none. The bargain made between Mr Sullivan, the Express & Capt. John Mills, the commissary, is that Sullivan shall return whenever you despatch him, which I hope will not exceed a day after he is arrived. I am in hopes that when the Governor arrives, he will give another face to the affairs of this country, for their situation is deplorable. A chain of three block-houses & cannon, might secure the village; but this cannot be done without more troops. A number of circumstances give a probability to the affair in ques- tion, which is, that the communication betwixt the Miamis & the Village has been stopped for a long time; & a Merchant from this place who had been taken prisoner, made his escape from the Weeya, & he
This page contains an image.
Page 506
So6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTION'S informs me that for certain the Indians were preparing for some capital stroke. I would have the boats not overloaded, to enable them to ascend the Wabash with ease. I know that M' Suliivan does not stand in good light in the eyes of your officers, but let his private character be what it will, in this moment he is a very serviceable man to me; &, indeed, the only one I could get, & beg for political reasons he may be treated with attention. The intelligence of this letter, the bearer knows nothing of — neither does any body in this place. I wish, for particular reasons, that you will not mention it to be public until he is gone. Major John Hamtramck to General Josiah Harmar, July 29,1789. [Draper MSS., 2W60-73.— Copy.] Fort Knox, at Post Vincennes, July 29th 1789 ... In my last I informed you that I had sent to the Wabash Indians an invitation to cease their carnages, since which a number of them have come down from the Weeya; they spoke to me with a submission rarely to be seen with Indians; they gave me thousands of protestations of their repentance, & they went back assuring me that all their parties at war would be called in. They told me that if their young men refused to live amicably with us, that they would leave them & come under the protection of the United States. In fact the French tell me that they never had heard the Indians speak in so humiliating a manner. I suppose that their poverty obliges them to make friends with us. The garrison is very sickly — forty nine men are this day sick with the intermitting fever, & what chagrins me most is, that we have not an ounce of Bark, & the sick obliged to live on salt provision for the want of hospital stores. The knowledge I have of our sickly climate as well from observation as from personal experience, obliges me to represent the deficiency in our supplies of medicines; and Doctor Elliot informs me, that a great part of the little he has received has been of a very bad quality. This I know, that he gives 8 or 10 grains of tartar emetic, when 2 or 3 ought to perform the operation; and I am well persuaded that every man who composes this garrison can take a pound of Bark during the sickly season. . . . [Prior to Lt. Armstrong's arrival, there was "not an ounce of pro-
Page 507
HAMTRAMCK TO HARMAR, JULY 29, 1789 507 vision in store" at the garrison, & an attack on the village was expected in a few days &c.]' . . . The time for which the Magistrates of Post Vincennes were to Serve Expired last April; and as I expected the Governor in June or July, I advised the people to wait for his Excellency's arrival; but if it should happen that the Governor could not come this summer, I beg you would be so good as to inform him of this, & that he would be pleased to send me some directions.2 Of late I have not heard of much hostilities being done by the Savages. I believe that it will be pretty safe for his Excellency to come into this country. The following is a copy of the latest advices from New Orleans, which you may not perhaps have been informed of. It is copied from Mr Peysona, who is the Commandant of St. Genevieve, so that I conceive there is no doubt of its authenticity, & I have translated it into English. Extract of the latest advices from the Governor General of Louisiana to the Commandant of the Posts on the Mississippi. The King has permitted to the inhabitants living on the American side to settle themselves in this Province (vagabonds excepted); those who will accept of this offer will have liberty to continue in their religion, but they will not have the privilege of exercising it in public; therefore all churches shall be Catholic & served by priest from Ireland. What- ever emigrants may bring with them of commodities or other effects to them appertaining, will be free from all taxes of entrance. The inhabitants of Fort Pitt, Post Vincennes, of Kentucky, of Cum- berland, of Kaskaskia, Cahokia, & of other settlements, altho' not settled on the territories of Spain, will have liberty to send all their commodities & productions to New Orleans by paying only 15 pr cent, of entrance. I think that this event will be a very great obstruction to Morgan's settlement, as the duty not being more than 15 pr cent, I cannot think that any Americans will be foolish enough to sell their liberty to be governed by despots at so low a price. . . . P. S. — I am this moment informed that the people of Kentucky are going on an expedition against the Wabash Indians; from every cir1 Evidently a summary of part of the letter made by Dr. Draper. » This refers to a court which was inaugurated by Hamtramck in 1788. In a letter to General Harmar, April 3, 1788, after telling of the abuses of the court which had been established by John Todd, he writes: "In consequence of which I have dissolved the old court, ordered new magistrates to be elected, and established a few regulations for them to go by, a copy of which I have the honor to enclose. My code of laws will, no doubt, make you laugh, but I hope you will consider that I am neither a lawyer or a legislator." Draper MSS., 1 W 385.
This page contains an image.
Page 508
So8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS cumstance I believe it, but Mr Vigo, (who conveys this to you) who will pass at the Falls, will be able to inform you better. — I am also informed that one Daniel Sullivan from this place, & others from this place, are gone to meet the Kentucky people; if so, I shall be glad of your direc- tions how and what I can do with them when they return. Since I have written the above, I have received a message from the Weeya Indians, with new protestations of their good intentions; & as a testi- mony of it, they have sent me one of our deserters they had with them, & another — a corporal who deserted at the same time, will also be sent. A number of Indians were coming to the village; but this Ken- tucky affair will undo every thing. It is very mortifying to see the authority of the United States so much insulted. Major John Hamtramck to General Josiah Harmar, August 14, 1789. [Draper MSS., 2W89-91 — Copy.] Fort Knox, at Post Vincennes, Aug8' 14th 1789. Dear General, In my last I had the honor to inform you of an expedition made by the people of Kentucky against the Wabash Indians. A party of them are now at this place on their return to Kentucky. This expedition consisted of 220 men, who have gone near the Weeya, killed 12 Indians; all this great campaign was done in 16 days. It may be called a prov- ocation, for I am well persuaded that they will pay for it — & perhaps this village. Some Americans of this Village were with them, M" Daniel Sul- livan, & one Mr Duff & others, Mr Duff was walking this day in the streets with two sculps fixed on a stick. If those people are to be taken notice of, I shall execute your directions with very great pleasure; and I am this moment at a stand about confining them. It is very mortify- ing to me to see the authority of the United States so much sneezed at, and not having sufficient power to chastise the aggressors. The Corporal who had deserted when on guard was brought to me the other day by the Weeya Indians, & he is now in confinement until you determine about his trial. A number of people had gone & were about going from the Illinois to the Spanish Side, in consequence of a resolve of Congress respecting negroes, who (as it was reported, particularly by Mr Morgan) were to be free. Some people from the Illinois had wrote me concerning it,
This page contains an image.
Page 509
HAMTRAMCK TO HARMAR, NOVEMBER 2, 1789 509 but I was perfectly ignorant of the matter, which induced me to write to M" B. Tardiveau at the Falls, & who informs me that he had wrote me last December from New York — & to the people of the Illinois, on this affair, but that he is informed his letters were intercepted: that the resolve of Congress respecting the Slavery of this Country was not intended to extend to the negroes of the old French inhabitants — which intelligence I had immediately published, & will communicate to the Illinois as soon as possible. It appears to me that he or they that have intercepted those letters, must have had a very great interest in the depopulation of the Illinois; it is hard to suspect, but I cannot help it. If his Excellency does not come this year or some of the Judges, most of the people will go away to the Spaniards, for they begin to think that there are no such men as a Governor or Judges. We continue very sick. I enclose a monthly return, by which you will see how we are pinched to do duty. One Mr Jones writes me from Kaskaskias, that there are strict orders arrived at St. Louis from New Orleans, to prevent all trade or correspondence between them & Michilimakina & the eastern parts of the Mississippi, on pain of their having their whole property confiscated, but I do not give it to you for certain. Major John Hamtramck to General Josiah Harmar, November 2, 1789. [Draper MSS., 2W124-132.— Copy.] Post Vincennes, Novr 2d 1789. . . . Ever since last summer I have been taking measures to divide the Weeya Indians, & am happy to inform you that I have so far suc- ceeded, that a tribe of about eighty warriors have come under the pro- tection of the United States, & delivered me two white prisoners taken in Kentucky some time ago. How long this alliance will last, I know not, as I have nothing to encourage them with & they expect it. I have the honor to enclose a Petition from the inhabitants of Kas- kaskias, & a copy of my answer. . . . The Indians of the Kaskaskias have paid me another visit with new protestations of their fidelity. [Enclosed in the preceding:] To John Francis Hamtramck, Esq. Major of the Ist U. S. Reg', & Commandant at Post Vincennes, &c. &c.
This page contains an image.
Page 510
5io ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS The inhabitants of Kaskaskias, in the Illinois, beg leave to address you, as the next commanding officer in the service of the United States, to lay before you the deplorable situation we are reduced to, and the absolute necessity of our being speedily succoured to prevent as well our total ruin, or that of the place. The Indians are greatly more numerous than the White people, & are rather hostilely inclined: The name of an American among them is a disgrace, because we have no superior. Our horses, horned cattle, & com are stolen & destroyed without the power of making any effect- ual resistance: Our houses are in ruin & decay; our lands are unculti- vated; debtors absconded & absconding; our little commerce de- stroyed. We are apprehensive of a dearth of corn, and our best pros- pects are misery and distress, or what is more than probable an untimely death by the hands of savages. We are well convinced that all these misfortunes have befallen us for want of some Superior or commanding authority; for ever since the cession of this Territory to Congress we have been neglected as an abandoned people, to encounter all the difficulties that are always attendant upon anarchy & confusion; neither did we know from authority until latterly, to what power we were subject. The greater part of our citizens have left the country on this account to reside in the Spanish dominions; others are now following, and we are fearful, nay, certain, that without your assistance, the small remainder will be obliged to follow their example. Thus situated, our last resource is to you, Sir, hoping & praying that you will so far use your authority to save an almost deserted coun- try from destruction, & to order or procure the small number of twenty men with an officer, to be stationed among us for our defence; and that you will make order for the establishment of a civil court to take place immediately & to continue in force until the pleasure of his Excellency the Governor shall be known, and to whom we beg you would commu- nicate our distress. We beg your answer by the return of the bearer, addressed to the Rev1 Mr Le Dru,1 our Priest, who signs this in the name, and at the request, of the inhabitants. Dated at Kaskaskia the fourteenth day of September, 1789. 1 A Dominican Father sent by Bishop Carroll. His stay in Kaskaskia was a short one; for he was enticed away by the better offers of the Spanish. Shea, J. M., Lifi and Tunes of Archbishop Carrolt, 471, 479 and this volume, post, p. 515, 501.
Page 511
HAMTRAMCK TO HARMAR, NOVEMBER 2, 1789 511 Ledru, curé Des Kaskaskias pour tous les habitans Français de l'endroit et autres voisins de la partie Américaine. Jn° Edgar. A Petition having been sent from the part of the inhabitants of Kas- kaskias to Major Hamtramck, praying for the number of twenty sol- diers & an officer to be stationed among them: Now in order to further the said Petition I do hereby promise to furnish barracks & provisions for the said number of troops — that is, flour, beef, pork, salt, & rum, at the very lowest prices that each of the above articles sell for in the country, until the arrival of the Governor, or until such time as pro- visions may be sent them by Government; and I do further promise to take bills of exchange on Congress or their officers appointed for that purpose, in payment. Witness my hand at Kaskaskias the 3d October, 1789. Jn° Edgar. [Enclosed in Hamlramck's 0} November 2:] Post Vincennes, Octobr 14th; 1789. Gentlemen, I have received your Petition, & am very sorry to see your country in so deplorable a situation. I wish I had it in my power to give you an immediate relief. The unhealthy situation of the soldiery is such that if I was to send you troops I would not have enough to do the ne- cessary duty of the garrison; but I shall not lose a moment in sending your Requisition to Head Quarters, where your demand will be deter- mined. I suppose Mr Vigo, whom I expect in December, will bring you an answer, perhaps with the troops you want. As for your civil department the people have my permission, & in- deed it is my wish, that two or three Magistrates may be elected by the suffrages of the people in every village to serve until the Governor arrives — I mean that the authority of such magistrates shall extend to the internal police of your country, & prevent debtors from abscond- ing from their creditors; but my intentions are that for the present, no execution shall take place in favor of a creditor, but as the people are daily moving on the Spanish side without paying their debts, it is my wish that against such people attachments may be granted, pro- vided the plaintiff gives bond & security, & not otherwise. I hope these small regulations may afford you a temporary relief. Let your Magistrates be respectable men by their moral character, as
This page contains an image.
Page 512
512 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS well as in point of property; let them attend with vigilance to all dis- putes that may arise amongst you, & in a particular manner to the Indian Affairs. I am your most obedient & very humble servant, J. F. Hamtramck, Major Cornd* The Revd Mr Ledru & Mr John Edgar. Major John Hamtramck to General Josiah Harmar, November II, 1789. [Draper MSS., 2W131-136.— Copy.] Post Vincennes, Nov1- tt, 1789. D» General, Last evening I recd a number of letters and papers from Kaskaskias, which I have the honor to enclose — some of them are in French, which I would have translated had time permitted me; but the men going off this afternoon to the Falls, by whom this will be conveyed, obliges me to forward them as they stand. I shall write to the Spanish Com- mandant in consequence of it. It is high time that Government should take place in this country & if it should happen that the Governor was not to come, nor any of the Judges, I would beg (for the sake of the people) that his Excellency would give me certain powers to create Magistrates, a sheriff & other officers, for the purpose of establishing courts of Justice — for, at pres- ent, there are none, owing to the daily expectation of the arrival of the Governor. Those that had been appointed by the people last year, their authority has been refused in the courts of Kentucky, they declar- ing that by the resolve of Congress, neither the people of Post Vincennes, or the Commanding Officer, had a right to appoint magistrates; that the power was vested in the Governor only, & that it was an usurped authority. You see, Sir, how much to the prejudice of the people their present situation is, & how necessary it is that some steps should be taken to relieve them. The powers of the Magistrates may be circumscribed as his Excel- lency may think proper, but the necessity of having such characters will appear when I assure you that at present no person here, can ad- minister an oath which will be considered legal in the Courts of Ken- tucky — & for the reasons above mentioned.
Page 513
EDGAR TO HAMTRAMCK, OCTOBER 28, 1789 513 John Edgar to Major John Hamtramck1 Sir, Ducoigne2 arrived last night, by whom I had the honor of your of the 17th instant, together with your approbation of the inhabitants making a court by election & performing the duties therein required. But, alas! Sir, our unhappy situation is such that your good intentions cannot, I am fearful, meet with that success which the justice of them merits. Without some small force to support civil authority, it is in vain to expect an obedience to any Regulations, however salutary, in a place where everyone thinks himself master, & where there is not the least degree of subordination. You know better than I, the dispositions of a people who have ever been subject to a military power, & are un- acquainted with the blessings of a free government by the voice of their equals. To the commands of a Superior there are no people readier to obey; but without a superior there are none more difficult to be governed. I shall, however, do my endeavor to have your orders obeyed, but if I shall not be successful be assured that it will not be without the strongest efforts on my part. Since my last at the departure of Ducoigne, the several incidents mentioned in the enclosed depositions arrived in this place, wherein an attempt has been made to steal my property & slaves, & the life of my wife, as well as that M™ Jones was in the most imminent danger. In consequence whereof the enclosed N° 1 was wrote to the Commandant of St. Genevieve, who returned the answer N° 2. After which in con- sequence of information received the letter, also enclosed, N° 3 was wrote him; as was also the letter N° 4, in consequence of the dis- covery made by the Indians; — to both these last letters we have rec4 no answers, & I am apprehensive that the promise contained in the letter of the commanding officer will not be complied with, as we have not yet heard of anything being done therein.3 Every day we are threatened with being murdered, & having our houses & village burnt; the Pianakeshaws steal our horses, & take them to the Spanish side, where they live, & where we dare not, even allowing we had sufficient force, follow them; so that truly speaking, our situation is desperate & even pitiful. These Indians have hatred enough to the Americans without being pushed on by white men; for 1 Enclosed in Hamtramck's of November n. » Chief of the Kaskaskia Indians. 'The litters and depositions here referred to are not in the Draper MSS.
This page contains an image.
Page 514
5M ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS this reason I am fearful of Ducoigne's life this winter, as the Piankeshaws threaten hard because he is a friend to America. It is well known that the minds of the Indians are continually pois- oned by the traders on the other side, who set off America in the most despicable light possible, which has not a small influence with the Indians. Government may not encourage it, but surely if friends to us they ought to put a stop to it. The spring it is impossible I can stand my ground, surrounded as we are by Savage enemies. I have waited five years in hopes of a Gov- ernment; I shall still wait until March, as I may be able to withstand them in the winter season, but if no succour nor government should then arrive, I shall be compelled to abandon the country, & I shall go to live at St. Louis.1 Inclination, interest & love for the country prompt me to reside here, but when in so doing it is ten to one but both my life & property will fall a sacrifice, you nor any impartial mind can blame me for the part I shall take. If you could consistent with your duty & character write to the com- manding officer at St. Louis, it will have a very good effect, & will in a great measure add to our safety. I sent by Richard a hogshead of cider & a barrel of apples agreeable to your request — which I beg your acceptance of. I am only sorry the cider is not better, though it is the best I had made this year. I am, Sir, Yr most obed' & very hmble Servant, Kaskaskias, 28th October, 1789. Jn° Edgar. P. S.—Duff, when he went off, owed me, & still owes me, above 800 dollars. To Maj. John F. Hamtramck, Vincennes. John Rice Jones to Major John Hamtramck.' [Draper MSS., 2W136- 142.—Copy.] Sir, I received the honor of yours of the 14th instant by Ducoigne, who arrived the 27th at night, & who on his way hither crossed a trail fresh made by a large party of Kickapoos for war, making towards the Ohio. Your answer to the Petition sent by you to Mr Ledru & Mr Edgar, ■Governor St. Clair arrived at Kaskukia, March 5, 1790.— 111. Hisl. Collections, ii., p. d. ,Encloscd in Hamtramck's of November n.
Page 515
JONES TO HAMTRAMCK, OCTOBER 29, 1789 515 was opened by the latter, in the absence & by the permission of the former, who unable to reside in a country of anarchy, and (I believe) the most miserable in America, has accepted of the cure of St. Louis, to which place he is gone & will take possession on the Ist of next month. He has often declared to me, that he would not remove from this side, even after St. Louis was offered to him; but when he came to receive his thithes which ought to furnish him with necessaries until the ensuing crop, he found that he had not wherewith to support him two months, as the most part of the inhabitants have refused to pay him, so that he was in a manner compelled to accept of the offer made him. He met with no better usage than Mr De la Valiniere & Mr Gibault before him did; and I am well persuaded that any other priest will not find a better reception until the establishment of a government. Mr St. Pierre, the Priest of Kaho, is now Priest of St. Genevieve; and I am informed that Mr Gibault is to have the offer of the cure of L'Anse a la Graisee, where there is a commanding officer & 20 soldiers newly arrived from New Orleans.1 Col. Geo. Morgan has met with a very cavalier reception at Orleans where he has been treated as a projector; & the Governor told him that if he had an inclination to come as a settler, it was well, but for any other prospect he need not expect it. The boasted settlement of New Madrid is almost broken up, & the few remnant saved from death, tho' after a long summer's sickness, are about to evacuate.2 Mr Edgar has wrote enclosing the depositions of the several acts of violence committed about midnight of the 8th of this instant by Dodge, Antaya & others, Spanish subjects, accompanied by Indians armed, who in a country where there was the least shadow of justice would meet with a very exemplary punishment, but we are subject to every insult & danger that can be made use of, & we must suffer in silence,3 as we have no commanding officer; to lay forth our complaints before the commanders on the other side, & the remonstrances of private in- dividuals (notwithstanding the specious answer given) will not meet with that attention which the circumstances of the case require and demand. 'On these priests see post, chap, xv, and Introduction. 3 See ante, p. 3, n. 1. * Memorandum by Dr. L. C. Draper: "The correspondence and depositions referred to in the preceding letters, go to show, that on the night of October 8,1789, one John Dodge & Michel Antaya, with a party of whites & armed Indians (Piankeshaws) came from the Spanish side of the Mississippi into Kaskaskia & attempted to carry off some slaves of Mr. John Edgar's, but failed, & were other- wise outlandish in their conduct, the Indians threatening to burn the villages." These depositions arc not in the Draper, MSS.
Page 516
5i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Every effort is made use of by the Spanish Government to depopu- late this side; one step towards it, is taking their Priests from them, well knowing that the people will not remain where there are no pastors. You may rest assured that these are their intentions, for Mr Chouteau, one of the most capital Merchants on the Spanish side, informed Mr Edgar last Spring in my presence, that orders had been received from Orleans by the Lieut. Govr of St. Louis, for him to make every difficulty possible with the people of this side, so that they might thereby be forced to go to live on the other. Several proposals have been made Mr Edgar, such as lands gratis, no taxes, with free permission to work at the Lead Mines & Salt Springs; all these he has refused — but if by March next no Government or regulation arises, he will remove to St. Louis where his life and property will be in safety, & with him, take my word, will this village be effectually ruined as a settlement. For near three weeks we have kept a constant guard both night and day for fear of the menaces of the Indians, enticed by the white men, being put into execution. Indeed, we know not when there is danger, as every person almost that comes from Miserié and St. Louis bring us accounts & letters, that we are to be massacred in the village, some- times by the Delawares & Shawanese, with the Piankeshaws, and at other times by the Sacs & Renards, who in seeking for Ducoigne, will kill the Americans as his friends; though, for my part, I believe that most of these stories are fabricated on the other side on purpose to frighten us away, seeing no other plan has had the desired effect. The English Lord that lately came from Michilimackinaw, & visited St Louis & St. Genevieve, & is since gone down the Mississippi to Orleans on his way home, is Lord Edward Fitzgerald, a younger brother of the Duke of Leinster in Ireland, & Major of the 54th Reg' of Foot now in Canada. He went up the Mississippi forty leagues above the Falls of St. Anthony, & held conference with the Indians above, as well as with the Shawanese & Delawares here. What the purport of his journey was we know not, nor can conjecture; however, one thing is certain, that he never visited the American villages on the Mississippi, which is rather extraordinary, if he was only on his travels for curiosity. "We have just received news from St. Louis that a number of petty augurs [sic] from Michilimackinak with English goods are stationed on the American shore opposite to the mouth of the Missouri for the pur-
Page 517
JONES TO HAMTRAMCK, OCTOBER 29, 1789 517 pose of drawing down to them the trade of the Indians on that river — they say the n° is 24 petty augurs. I have wrote a long letter — perhaps it may be disagreeable & tire your patience; if so, or the liberty I take in sending you the occurrences of this country should not meet your approbation, I would thank you to inform me, that I may not hereafter unwillingly offend. Mr Chouteau told Mr Barbau, that there will be 600 soldiers next spring at St. Louis. I am, with the greatest respect, Sir, Yr most obedient & very hmble Servant, Kaskaskias, 29th October, 1789. Jno Rice Jones. To Major Hamtramck, Post Vincennes.
This page contains an image.
Page 517
5i6 1LLI.N Every effort is late this side; o< well knowing th. You may rest a one of the mr Edgar last S] Orleans by I possible w forced to Edgar, the Lc Marc? Loui m\



This page contains an image.
Page 517
< FATHER PIERRE GIBAULT Fiom crayon portrait in thc collection of Colonel R. 7'. Durrctt of Louis-iiillc, Kentucky. ■■

/ '"
This page contains an image.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 518
CHAPTER XV ECCLESIASTICAL LETTERS, 1780 to 1792 Father Gibault Writes to Clark — The Same Denies That He As- sisted the Americans — Edgar and Tournier Complain of Father St. Pierre — Father Gibault Describes Conditions — Father de la Valiniere and the Inhabitants of Cahokia — A Description of the Cahokia Mission — The Inhabitants of Kaskaskia Complain of the Vicar General — The Priests Petition for Appointments in Canada — Correspondence of the Bishops Concerning the West — Bishop Carroll Writes to Father Gibault. Father Gibault to George R. Clark, May 10, 1780 [Dr. MSS., 50J37. — A. L. S.] M' G. R. Clark, Monsieur, Nous avons été frustré avec Bien Du Chagrin Du Plaisir De Vous Voir Dans notre Village; La Joye etoit Generale quand nous avons sçu que Vous Etiez si proche De Nous Et Les Bontés Et les Bienfaits Dont vous avez usé envers nous, Dans Votre Séjours ici, sembloient nous en promettre Dautres si Vous y fussiez Revenu. Je n'Etois pas un De Ceux qui vous Désirât avec moins D'ardeur. Vous Connoissez mon Coeur, Et si Des affaires publiques De Mon ministre ne me Retenoient pas indispensablement, Je me serois fait un plaisir Et un honneur D'aller [Translation.] Mr. G. R. Clark, Sir, We have been greatly disappointed in not having the pleasure of seeing you in our village. The joy was general when we knew that you were so near us. The kindness and benefits you showed us during your stay here gave us the promise of the same when you should return. I was not one of those who desired you with the least ardor. You know my heart; and, if the public affairs of my ministry did not demand my presence, I should have given myself the pleasure and honor of making 518
Page 518
FATHER PIERRE OIBAULT From crayon portrait in thc collection of Colonel R. T. Durrctt of Louis;: icky. - ',.-■

l,:V / v ,'r r ■'.-.. r
This page contains an image.
Page 518
CHAiTEK \V 1 • ^ia. ;.' ■!. h. r: :-. i?>. ,.■ ■ < A k. i ' ■ " Ci..\rK iii» Sam- ■ - • < Ti' -,- .;' t. >s , - Klx.-»' I'OUK" I' . JIPLA.'' 'iR ."■i > I \ ' < ii'liAUll ■• < KllîtS i' lî. \J i.1 \ ■ . m .. i Imi .' - • s oï C'm A l;t h t iii"!..( i s-- f • '.i-hi.'" Kask.». ■ s l'K !'(■ VTi \« ■■.■«Al • . ■ r >■ F.)R \c < »N l .SA' \ « ■ "■- ■ -11''.!' ■■!» i' • «.".|NCERV \S ï s r ■ K II : ''i *«■: I \W ■ i'ATI'M • .r. .t'N ivAu'j'A ,'i\\v-t\«oA \i M< >.s-,!' ■. N. ;:. iiwiiis '■ î-l avt \ ur I»- Miot- . ; La 1' qi.o '.' ..,!•■. •• ht- r>." »■•■■!.. • ••/ 11.*. S ,10'.!- I ,-(."•( ilro l'a ■ .-. ■ ''..«.pi- •..". ■ •■-. r 'i,.i:r«s ■ * . : il. "t, î< i.i.l ■.. [T'itislali •• M. ■ ■ .rk, Sir. \\. 'j'-u lx-<" ••■,■ i!-.i|i|)i;' . not havii, ■ . i].?:ts'iri- wci: . ■ di: ia our ■. 'i h' -il'.' i .,:w ;l'.; «i-■ -n.ii'ari ■ . •' ■ . . ■ ■ ■•.■.! •<d,in'j".1 , • i\.. l.r;. ...i». . p ■> ■ !I' > .... .1 _ ,Ki r> . . .1' w.i-. ;i. ' . ■■: i- ' m.sc \\iv> >'. .iivd -, n the !. .i Jor. Y.>l ka niy*iiurl; a , if the (■■■ • ,\c aff-i. siiy miniM" '>1 n'M ,!, mai d! ■ pn-cDce, I -'inuMlr: ■• pvor. . '>e pleaviM ..i hoiv•• .•!" mak: ■ ii Chazr»' De' .. (Vcnc •' . . ,.VO!' .',,-s:: iiienf:.'' .!<• St'jl. ..■•K>iiii' <, Kc" ; . >.; -, '- r>* - Coi"'
Page 518
vV/<-rt£aa<UZ

/
This page contains an image.
Page 518
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page 519
GIBAULT TO CLARK, MAY 10, 1780 519 Vous Rendre Visite Dans Votre Nouvel Etablissement, mais Jespere que ce n'est qu'un Retardement Et qu'une autre occasion me trouvera moins occupé, nous somme Bien pauvres Et Bien Dénués De toutes choses. Nous attendons avec impatience Les Batteaux De la Ville, nous Craignons Les Sauvages Et Les mauvaises Gens qui les Excitent a Nous tuer; en un mot nous sommes Véritablement Dans une triste situation, malgré tout cela nous avons Bon Courage, Et nous sommes si Bons ameriquains que nous sommes prêts a Nous Deffendre Jusqu'à La mort Contre quiconque Nous attaquera. Je Vous prie D'accepter mes Respects Et De m'employer pour tout ce qui sera en mon pouvoir pour Votre service. Je me feray tou- jours un Vray plaisir De Vous être utile Et De me Dire avec toute la considération possible Monsieur, Votre très humble Et très obéissant Serviteur P. Gibault Ptre aux Kaskaskias de 10 may 1780 [Addressed:] Monsieur Monsieur George Rogers Clark, Colonel Des troupes ameriquaines De Virginie a la mine De fer. [Endorsed by G. R. C.:] Mr Jeboe 10 May 1780 [Translation.] you a visit in your new establishment; but I hope that it is only a post- ponement and that another opportunity will find me less occupied. We are very poor and destitute of ail things. We are impatiently expect- ing the village boats. We fear the savages and the evilly disposed people who are urging them to kill us. In a word we are truly in a sad situa- tion. In spite of ail this we are of good courage and are so good Ameri- cans that we are ready to défend ourselves to the death against any who attack us. I pray you to accept my respects and to employ me in any way in my power for your service. I always have true pleasure in being useful to you and in calling myself with ail possible considération Your very humble and obedient servant, P. Gibault, Priest. Kaskaskia, May 10, 1780. [Addressed:] M. George Rogers Clark, Colonel of the American Troops of Virginia at the Iron Mines. [Endorsed:] M. Gibault, May 10, 1780.
Page 520
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Father Gibault to the Archbishop of Quebec, April i, 17831 [Archiepiscopal Archives, Quebec.— A. L. S.] Monseigneur, Je n'ay une demie-heure pour profiter de l'occasion de Mr Ducharme. Je ne puis dans ce court interval marquer à Votre Grandeur sinon que je suis toujours le même pour le salut des peuples, excepté que l'age et les fatigues ne me permettront plus de faire ce que je désirerois comme autrefois. Le R. père Bernard, capucin, dessert les Kakokias conjoin- tement avec St Louis où il demeure, ce qui me soulage du plus éloigné village que j'aye à desservir. Les Illinois sont plus malheureux qu'ils n'ont jamais été. Après avoir été ruinés et épuisés par les Virginiens, laissés sans commandant, sans troupes et sans justice, ils se gouvernent eux-mêmes par fantaisie et caprice, ou pour mieux dire par la loy du plus fort. Nous attendons cependant en peu de tems des troupes avec un commandant et une justice réglée. J'espère faire un détail le mieu qu'il me sera possible à Votre Grandeur par Mr Dubuc qui reste encore [Translation.] Monseigneur, I have only half an hour, if I seize the opportunity of sending a letter afforded me by Mr. Ducharme.2 In this short interval I can only point out to your Lordship that I am always the same in working for the sal- vation of the people, except that age and weariness do not permit me as formerly to do what I would desire. The Reverend Father Bernard,3 Capuchin, serves the people of Cahokia as well as those of St. Louis where he lives. This relieves me of the most distant villages which I have to serve. The Illinois people are more unfortunate than they were. After having been ruined and worn out by the Virginians and left without a commandant, without troops, and without justice, they are governing themselves by whim and caprice, or, to put it better, by the law of the strongest. We are expecting, however, in a short time, some troops with a commandant and a regulated court of justice. I hope to send to your Lordship by Mr. Dubuque4 who will remain here 1 Printed by the editor in the Amer. Hist. Review, xiv., No 3, p. 551. 2 Probably one of the Ducharmes of Cahokia. Consult Index of I11. Hist. Collections, ii. * Very little is known of Father Bernard de Limpach (probably Bernhardt von Limbach), a native of Liege. He was appointed parish priest of St. Louis ini776 and served the parish until 1787. As the letter printed above shows, he also attended to the spiritual needs of the people of Cahokia during part of the time and he also occasionally visited Kaskaskia, as the parish records show. Houck, Hist. ol Missouri, II., 308. * Probably Augustin Dubuque. Consult index of III. Hist. Collections, ii.
Page 521
EDGAR AND TOURNIER VS. ST. PIERRE, JULY, 1785 521 quelque tems, de tout ce qui s'est passé depuis quatre ou cinq ans. J'espère aussi de votre charité paternel que vous ne me laisserez pas non plus sans consolation. J'en plus besoin que jamais quoy que j'aye pris pour principe de faire tout ce que je fais comme je le fairais en présence de mon Evêque, et que par conséquent vous êtes toujours présent à mes yeux et à mon esprit, il me seroit bien doux de recevoir vos instructions. En attendant ce bonheur je suis avec tout le respect, la soumission et l'obéissance la plus parfaite Votre très humble serviteur, P. Gibault, Prêtre. A Ste Genevieve Le 1er avril 1783. [Translation.] some time, a detailed account, as far as I can, of all that has occurred within the last four or five years.1 I trust, likewise, that, through your paternal charity, you will not leave me longer without consolation. I have more need of it than ever, even though I have made it a principle to do all my duties as if they were done in the presence of my Bishop; and since, consequently, you are always present to my eyes and to my spirit, it would be very agreeable for me to receive your instructions. While waiting for that good fortune I am, with all the respect, the sub- mission, and the most perfect obedience, Your very humble servant, P. Gibault, Priest. At Ste. Genevieve, April 1, 1783. John Edgar and Louis Tournier versus Father St. Pierre, July, 1785. [Hutchins Pp., iii., 17. Pa. Hist. Society. — Attested copy.1] A Monsieur Nicolas LaChanse Capitaine de Milice et Magi- strat. &ca &ca &<* [Translation. — Attested.] To Mr Nicolas La Chanse Captain of the Militia, Magistrate £ca £rca g^ca 1 This letter was written, but has not been preserved. Sec Introduction. 2This document has been twice carefully compared with the original copy.
This page contains an image.
Page 522
Sas ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Monsieur, Les Soussignés ont L'honneur de Vous Exposer quils Viennent d'estre déffamé de Leur réputation Par Monsieur S* Pierre Curé du Village des KasKasKias quil Vous plaise, Monsieur de le faire paroitre pardevant Vous afin deprouver ce qu'il a avancé Pardevant Mr Williams de Lataque de Leurs Réputation de Larcin et faute par lui d éprouver Son avancé quil Soit Condamné a tous Les Rigeur de toutes Les forces des Loix et quil Soit aussi arrêté aux dépens de qui il appartiendra. Led' Sr Williams qui Est Sur Son départ dit que Led* Sieur S1 Pierre curé Soit présent devant Mon dit Sieur Williams pour y voir prêté Serment, Et faute par Lui d'obéir à vos ordres qu'il Soit commandé un Nombre d'homme Pour Le faire parvenir et vous y ferè Droit. ce 27 Juillet aux KasKasKias 1785.— Signé Sur La Minutte. Jh° Edgar Et Louis tournier [Translation. — Attesled.] Sm, The underwritten have the honour to represent to you, that their réputation has been slandered by Mr S* Pierre Minister of the Village of Kaskaskias.1 That you will be pleased to make him appear before you to prove what he has advanced in présence of Mr Williams accusing them of Theft. And in case that He should not support his accusation, that he be condemned to ail the rigours and force of the Law, and that He may be arrested at the expence of those to whom it may belong. The said Sieur Williams who is on his departure requests that the said Mr S1 Pierre Minister, be présent to be witness to the said Sieur Williams making his oath and in case of disobedience to your orders that a number of men be commanded to make him come and do what is right. Kaskaskias 27th July, 1785. Signed in the minutes John Edgar & Louis Tourneer » On Father St. Pierre see Index.
Page 523
EDGAR AND TOURNIER VS. ST. PIERRE, JULY, 1785 523 Vu La Requête des autre Part des Sieurs Edgar Et tournier Contre Monsieur Saint Pierre Les Paroitrons Pardevant moy tout incontinent ainsi que Le Sieur Williams Controns Leurs Raisons pour y faire Droit. KasKasKias ce 27rae Juillet 1785 Signé Sur la Minutte. Lachanse, Magistrat. Pour Copie conforme à la Minutte et Collationnè à L'original Le Jour et an, Pre Langlois Greffier de Conté A Monsieur Nicolas Caillot Lachanse Magistrat &ca &°a &ca Monsieur, Les Soussignés Vous Représente quils viennent devoir au Greffe des Ecrits que mon dit Sieur De Saint Pierre, Curé tendant; et disant [Translation. — Attested.] Having considered the aforegoing request, from Mess™ Edgar & Tournier against Mr Saint Pierre, They must immediately appear before me as also the Sieur Williams, & state their reasons to have jus- tice executed. Signed in the minutes Kaskaskias 27th July 1785 Lanchanse1. Magistrate Copy, conformable to the minutes & compared with the original the day & year aforesaid. Pierre Langlois Clerk of the County. To Mr Nicolas Caillot La Chanse Magistrate &ca &ca &ca Sir, The underwritten represent to you that they have seen a writing at the Clerks, of the said Sieur S* Pierre Minister, importing and saying that the Company of Mess™ Edgar & Tournier, has stolen, & saying that you were incompetent to make him appear before you. 1 This is the only document which indicates that Nicolas Lachanse was acting as magistrate be- tween the years 1781, when he went out of office, until 1787 when he was re-elected. By what authority he was officiating as justice does not appear. This is the period of the ascendency of John Dodge and, since Lachanse was an adherent of his party, it is probably that the magistracy held by Lachanse was created by the right of might rather than by right of law. For the exercise of judicial power during this period, see ante, pp. 353.359.385.
This page contains an image.
Page 524
524 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS que La Compagnie de Monsieur Edgar, et Tournier, fait Voler, et disant que vous n'ête point competant a le faire Comparoitre. C'est pourquoy, Monsieur, qu'il Vous Plaise de ordonner à Monsieur de S' Pierre Curé aye à donner Caution qu'il Paroitra — Lorsquil Sera Appellé, et faute par mon dit Sieur de donner Caution, qu'il Lui Soit ordonné de ne point Sortir de cette Paroisse, et district, afin de pouvoir parvenir a ses raisons et que S'il Vient à Sortir qu'il Soit arrêté et vous y feré Droit. Aux KasKasKias Le 27e Juillet 1785. Signé Sur La Minute Louis Tournier et Jh° Edgar Vu La Requête des autre Part étant obligé Etant Magistrat de Rendre Justice au demandeur tel qu'il Soit, il Est ordonné a Monsieur De S* Pierre Curé de Se conformer aux demande Ce Jourd'huy aux KasKasKias Le 27 Juillet 1785. Signé Sur La Minutte Lachanse Magistrat. [Translation. — Attested.] Therefore, You will be pleased Sir to order that Mr S* Pierre Minister gives security that he will appear when he shall be called, & in case that the said Sieur does not give security, that he be ordered not to leave this parish & district,1 that he may be brought to reason. And that should he attempt to leave it, He may be arrested & be obliged to do what is right. Kaskaskias 2 7th July, 1785 Signed in the Minutes Louis Tournier & John Edgar. Having considered the foregoing request & being ob[liged] as Magistrate to render Justice to whoever demands [it]. The said Mr. de S* Pierre Minister is ordered to confor[m] himself to the demands. Kaskaskias, 27th July 1785. Signed in the minutes, La Chanse Magistrate. 1 Father St. Pierre must have transferred his rcsidence to Cahokia soon after this date. The earliest mention of his prcsence there, that I have noted, is April, 1786. Sec post, p. 562. À

Page 525
EDGAR AND TOURNIER VS. ST. PIERRE, JULY, 1785 525 Je certifie La Présente Copie est conforme à La Minute, et colla- tionné à L'original et délivré à Mes dits Sieurs Edgar et Louis Tournier pour être Signifié aux KasKasKias Le 27e Juillet 1785. P™ Langlois Notaire et Greffier de conté. Monsier S' Pierre Voudra bien Paroitre aujourd'huy Pardevant nous Par la Plainte Portée de Messieurs Edgar Et tournier, pour y donner Sa déclaration aux demandes par la Requête des dts Sieurs a Lui Signifié Par Louis Tielskrer En Place du Sr Toulouze huissier. Ausy en Egard, pour Satisfaire selon La Lettre quil ma Ecrit et pour être présent avoir prêté Sermen au dit Sieur Williams qui Est Sur Son départ J'éspere qu'il Voudra le faire Pour L'affaire être renvoyé a une Justice Compétente. KasKasKias Le 27 Juillet 1785. Signé Sur la Minutte, Lachanse Magistrat [Translation. — Attested.] I certify that the présent Copy is conformable to the minutes & compared with the Original, & delivered to the said Mess™ Edgar & Tournier to be signified. Kaskaskias 27th July, 1785. Pierre L'Anglois Notary & Clerk of the County. Mr S* Pierre will be pleased to appear before me this day on account of the complaint brought against him by Mess™ Edgar & Tournier, to give his déclaration to the demands contained in the request of the said Messieurs signified to him by Louis Tielskrer in the place of Sieur Toulouze Bailiff, As also to justify me on account of the Letter which he wrote me, & to be présent when the said Sieur Williams makes his oath who is about to départ from this. I hope that He will do this that the affair may be referred to a compétent Justice. Kaskaskias 27th July 1785. Signed in the Minutes, Lachanse Magistrate.
This page contains an image.
Page 526
526 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Reponse Ecrit au dos de L'ordre. Monsieur, Par Les presentes Jay L'honneur de vous declarer que vous nete pas qualifié pour Juger Les personnes Eclesiastiques, et avec Les même Je fais mils protestations contre vos ordres — tres mal Employées Jay vu deja declaré meme Je prouveray aux forces competant a ma Personne Les questions contre moy au reste Je vous Certifie Encore une fois d'avoir dit que La Compagnie d Edgar Et tournier fait Voler Et faite faire Serment a Mr Williams Et Laissé Le Partir. Signé Suivant La minutte De Saint Pierre Curé Je Certifie que les pieces cy dessus et de l'autre part Sont Con- forme aux Minute et collationné à L'original aux KasKasKias Le 27 Juillet 1785. Signé Pre Langlois Notaire Et Greffier de Conté Monsieur Je ne Voudrais pas, quon retarde sans raison Sieur Williams: Par consequent je Vous prie de prendre Son Serment et en même tems je [Translation. — Attested.] Answer written on the Back of the Order. Sir, I have the honour to declare to you by the present, that you are incompetent to judge Ecclesiastical persons, & at the same time I protest a thousand times against your Orders, employed very badly. I have already seen declared, & I will also prove before competent authority the question against me. As to the rest I certify once more to have said that the Company of Edgar & Tournier have stolen. Let Mr Williams make his oath & depart. Signed according to the Minutes De St Pierre Minister I certify that the above peices [ sic ] are conformable to the minutes & compared with the Original Kaskaskias 27th July 1785. Signed Pierre L'Anglois Notary & Clerk of the County.
Page 527
EDGAR AND TOURNIER VS. ST. PIERRE, JULY, 1785 527 Certifie avec Les presens d'avoir dit, que Messieurs Edgard Et tournier, ou Plutot Cette Compagnie fait Voler, que je pouverai Sitôt qu'on m'attaquera dans La force competante à ma Personne. Monsieur, J'ai L'honneur d'etre, Votre tres affectionné De Saint pierre Curé. KasKasKias le 27 Juillet 1785 Je Certifie La Copie Juste et conforme à L'original en Presence de temoints qui ont signez avec moy et que j'ai Copié Suivant l'original Ce 27 Juillet 1785. Louis tournier Temoins Presents temoint Carbonneaux temoint Pie™ Langlois Notaire Et Greffier de Conté Je Certifie La Presente conforme à L'original deposé au Greffe Juillet 1785 Lachanse Magistrat. [Translation. — Attested.] Sir, I would not wish that Mr Williams should be Detained without reason ; I therefore request that you will take his oath & at the same time I certify by these presents to have said that Mess" Edgar & Tournier or rather that company does steal, which I will prove as soon as authority Competent to judge persons of my station, requires. Sir, I have the honour to be Your most affectionate De Saint Pierre. Minister Kaskaskias 27th July, 1785. I certify the copy to be just & conformable to the Original in pres- ence of Witnesses who have signed with me & which I have Copied according to the Original. This 27th July, 1785. Louis Tournier Witness. Witnesses present Carbonneaux Witness. Pie™ Langlois Notary & Clerk of the County. I certify the present to be comformable to the Original deposited fn the Clerks Office. July, 1785. Lachanse Magistrate.
This page contains an image.
Page 528
528 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Lan Mil Sept Cent quatrevingt Cinq Le Vingt huitième Jour de Juillet aux Environ de Neuf heure du matin metant transporté a la Maison Presbitèrial de cette ville ou J'aurais Signifié a MeSir S* Pierre Curé, une requête et ordonnance de Monsieur Lachanse Magis- trat, ou en Parlant à Sa Personne Lui présentant la dte ordonnance présence de Messieurs Louis Villaret Masson et Jn Bap** Bauvais arrivant un moment après, ce que MeSir S* Pierre Curé a Protesté qu'il Faloit un huissier Eclésiastique pour lui Signifier des ordonnances, qu'il n'avait point d ordonnance a recevoir que des Supérieurs Eclési- astique. KasKasKias le même Jour cy dessus Signé Sur la Minute. Barutel huissier Je Certiffie que La présente Copie Est conforme à La Minutte Et collationné à L'original. Aux KasKasKias Le 28 Juillet 1785. Pre Langlois Notaire Et Greffier [Translation. — Attested.] In the Year One thousand seven Hundred & Eighty-five on the twenty eighth day of July about Nine o'clock in the morning having gone to Ministers House of this town, where I signified to Mr S' Pierre Minister, a request & ordonnance of Mr Lachanse Magistrate & speaking to him I presented to him the said ordonnance in the prés- ence of Mess" Louis Villaret Masson & Jn Bapte Bauvais who arrived a moment after. That Mr S* Pierre Minister, protested that it was necessary that an Ecclesiastical Bailiff should signify ordinances to him, as he had no ordinances to receive but from superior Ecclesiastictes. Kaskaskias, The same day above mentioned Signed in the Minutes Barutel Bailiff. I certify that the présent copy is conformable to the Minutes & compared with the original. Kaskaskias 28th July, 1785. P*K Langlois Notary & Clerk.
This page contains an image.
Page 529
EDGAR AND TOURNIER VS. ST. PIERRE, JULY, 1785 529 A Monsieur Nicolas Caillot Lachanse Magistrat des KasKasKias gjca gjca gjca Monsieur, Les soussignées ont L'honneur de Vous Exposer qu'ils auroient fait Signifié La Copie de nôtre requeste et Votre ordonnance au bas aMe- Sir S* Pierre Curé de Ce Village pour Se Conformer à votre ordonnance et Suivant Le Raport de Monsieur Biaise Barutelle huissier, par Son procès Verbal que nous Vous Exibons, affin qu'il Soit paraffé par Vous, et en même tems de vouloir nous accorder un ordre de Le faire aretter comme N'ayant pas deVeque, et que nous attaquant temporel- lement II Serait donc au Pouvoir Eclesiastique de déffamer Le Caractère des Particuliers, Etant Libre et vivant dans un Pays de Liberté, Chaque Personne qui Est accusé d'un Crime Capital a droit de demander La cause, et la Nature, de Son accusation pour être Confronté avec Les accusateurs, et Les témoins, et d'êtré Jugé Promptement par un Juré impartial, Et faute de nous L'accorder, nous vous déclarons que nous L'arrêterons Comme ayant Nous Soumettant aux Loix, n'en pouvant y Parvenir Cest pourquoy comme il Paroit se retirer Sur une Partie [Translation. — Attested.] To Mr Nicholas Caillot Lachanse, Magistrate of Kaskaskias, &ca £ca &ca Sut, The undersigned have the honour to represent to you that they have signified the Copy of our request & your ordinance beneath it to Mr S* Pierre Minister of this village, that he might conform himself to your ordinance, & according to the report of Mr Biaise Barutelle Bailiff by his verbal process which we exhibit before you that it may be seen by you, & in the meantime that you will grant an Order to arrest him, As having no [Bishop] & by attacking us temporally it would then be in the power of Ecclesiastics to defame the characters of individuals. Being free & living in a Land of Liberty, Every person who is accused of a capital crime has a right to demand the cause and the nature of his accusation, to be confronted with the Accusers & witnesses, & to be speedily judged by an impartial Jury. And in case you do not grant this we déclare to you that we will arrest him, as altho' we hâve sub- mitted to the Laws we cannot obtain their exécution, And because it appears that he is about to withdraw to foreign parts. And we hope
This page contains an image.
Page 530
S3o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Etrangère et Espérons cependant que Vous nous L'accorderais afin de paroitre pardevant Vous et vous y feré Droit. Aux KasKasKias Le 28 Juillet 1785 Signé Sur La Minute Joh. Edgar Louis Tournier Vu Les demandes de Messieurs Edgar Et Tournier n'ayant aucuns pouvoir Etant seul Magistrat — ayant satisfait a Leurs demande ils ont preuve en main de Monsieur de S* Pierre même, il n'est pas à mon pouvoir, déplus Je Les Renvoyé à la Nouvelle Angleter a S'adresser â L'onnorable Congre ainsy qu'a Monseigneur LEveque pour y pro- duire Leurs Plaintes pour y faire droit a qui — il appartiendra, n'étant pas de Ma Plus de ma Compétence de pouvoir passer Outre, sans des ordres Exprès de Lonnorable Congre Espérant a Ce Sujet qu'il Voudra y Satisfaire. Aux KasKasKias Le 28 Juillet 1785. Signé Sur La Minute Lachanse Magistrat [Translation. — Attested.] however, that you will grant this, so as to appear before you that you may exécute what is just. Kaskaskias 28th July, 1785. Signed in the minutes John Edgar Louis Tournier. Having considered the demands of Messieurs Edgar & Turnier, Having no power being the only Magistrate having satisfied their demands they have proof in hand from Mr de S* Pierre himself, it is not in my power to do more, I refer them to New England to address themselves to the Honourable Congress as also to the Bishop, to produce their complaints, that justice may take place where it is due, it not belonging to me nor am I compétent to go further without the express orders of the Honourable Congress — Hoping that they will grant satis- faction on the subject. Kaskaskias 28th July, 1785. Signed in the Minutes Lachanse, Magistrate.
Page 531
EDGAR AND TOURNIER VS. ST. PIERRE, JULY, 1785 531 Je Certifie que La present Copie Conforme a La Minute Et Colla- tionnée à L'original Aux KasKasKias Le 28 Juillet 1785. Pre Langlois Notaire Et Greffier de Conté. Monseigneur! Nous doutons, Que vous nous avés envoyé un prêtre, pour ce qui régarde et concerne le spirituel il se mêle plus du temporel et Sert d'Avocat dans ce pays, il cherche à nous frustrer de n[otre] Comerce et oter tout le crédit Suivant les pièces Spécificatifs que nous prénons la liberté vous accompagner nous demandons, Que la Justice espérant, Que Son Excellence voudra examiner les piéces strictément, Le curé qui à changé de nom, Qui-est un Allemand, que l'on nome, S' Pierre icy, mais en vrai Allemand Heiligenstein disant envoyé de Son Excel- lence pour grand Vicaire dans la Contreé des Illinois; je ne crois pas Monseigneur! Qu' après les lettres, Que j'ai vû, qu'un pasteur doit Se mêler du temporel, ce n'est pas Son exercice, nous Espérons Mon- seigneur! Que vous voudrés bien accorder le droit, Qu'il nous est dû [Translation. — Attested.] I certify the present Copy to be conformable to the Minutes & com- pared with the Original. Kaskaskias 28th July, 1785. PI* Langlois Notary & Clerk of the County. My Lord, 1 We are doubtful, whether you have sent us a priest, to look after our spiritual concerns as he is more intent upon temporal affairs, & [acts] as a Lawyer in this country. He endeavours to frustrate us in our com- merce & to take away our credit, according to the specified peices which we take the liberty of sending to you herewith. We only ask for justice. Hoping that His Excellency will strictly examine the peices. The Minister who is a German has changed his name. He is called here S* Pierre, but in true German Heiligenstein. He says that he is sent by His Excellency in the capacity of Grand Vicar in the Illinois country. I do not think My Lord after the Letters that I have seen that a pastor ought to intermeddle with temporal matters. We hope 1 Evidentiy addressed to Mr. Carroll. Prefect Apostolic.
This page contains an image.
Page 532
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS nous implorerons de Jour en Jour la Divine providence pour la Conser- vation de votre Santé & Jours. Nous Avons L'honeur d'être avec tout le Respect & Soumission possibles. Monseigneur! Vos trés humbles & très Soumis Serviteurs KasKasKias ce 21. 8bre 1785. Jn° Edgar Louis tournier [Translation. —Atteskd.] My Lord that you will be disposed to do that justice which is due to us. We daily implore the Divine providence for the preservation of your Health & Life. We have the Honour of being with all possible respect & submission My Lord, Your most humble and most obedient servants, Kaskaskias 21st October, 1785. John Edgar Louis Tournier. Faithfully translated from the Original by John Pintard. Father de St. Pierre to Father Payet of Detroit, February 18, 1786. [Archiepiscopal Archives, Quebec — A. L. S.] PlURIMUM REVERENDE AC ExiMIE DOMINE CoNFRATER, Anno elapso jam scripsi Reverentiae Vestrae, rogans ut meo homine de R. D. Superiore Seminarii Quebecensis tam documenta Missionis Sanctae Familiae, quam ea quae litem propter domum venditam concer- nunt, petere, ac mihi hue transmittere dignetur. Nunc per praesentes reitero preces meas eo instantius, quo fortius [Translation.] VERY REVEREND AND DISTINGUISHED BROTHER: Last year I wrote to your reverence to request you kindly to ask of the Reverend Superior of the Seminary of Quebec both for the docu- ments of the Mission of the Holy Family and for those which concern the litigation on account of the sale of the house. Again by these presents I repeat my prayers, the more urgently
Page 533
ST. PIERRE TO PAYET, FEBRUARY 18, 1786 533 emptor domus et terrae adjacentis urget ut cuncta vendantur. R. D. Gibault facultatem cunctam, quam hoc in puncto olim recepit, in me transtulit; hinc feci oppositionem usque dum recepero desponsum de R. D. Superiore Quebecensis Seminarii. Nescio illius nomen, alias praesentes ipsimet transmisissem. Nil novi his in partibus, quam quod Praefectus Apostolicus tre- decim provinciarum mihi adnuntiaverit jubilaeum a Summo Pontifice dictis provinciis nuperrime indultum. De coetero patriam istam invenio adeo duram, ut vix hic permanere valeam. Nescio quo fato hue perve- nerim. Fui bene in Gallia; jussus a rege christianissimo me transtuli in tredecim Provincias ubi fungebar munere Capellani campestris exercitus gallici. Finito bello Legatus Galliae residens Philadelphiae tantum institit ut me hue transferrem, ut non possem renuere id quod petiit. At vero cum invenio regionem totam quantam mutatam, pessi- misque hominibus undequaque repletam, qui nec Deum, nec legem timent, omnino mentis sum illam data occasione prima derelinquere. Me transferrem quam lubentissime in Dioecesin canadensem accepto adnutu gratioso Illustrissimi Domini Episcopi, quem ut desuper infor- [ Translation- ] because the buyer of the house and adjacent land is urging more strongly than previously that everything be sold.1 The Révérend M. Gibault has transmitted to me the full power which he formerly received under this heading. Therefore I have opposed any action until I shall receive an answer from the Révérend Superior of the Seminary of Québec. I do not know his name, otherwise I should have sent the présent letter to him. I know nothing about this territory except that the Prefect-Apostolic of the thirteen provinces has notified me of a jubilee lately conceded by the Sovereign Pontiff to the said provinces. However, I find this country so harsh that I shall scarcely be able to remain here. I know not by what fate I hâve corne hither. I was well off in France. By order of the Most Christian King I traveled to the thirteen provinces where I acted in the capacity of camp chaplain of the French army. After the war the French Minister résident at Philadelphia insisted so much that I come hither that I was not able to refuse what he asked. But truly when I find the entire région so changed and filled with the worst of 'Set JU. Hisl. Colltctùms, ii., 497-509; P"1, P- 5*i.
This page contains an image.
Page 534
534 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTION'S met, instanter flagito, exspectans favorable [sic] responsum perenno ad cineres sum., Révérende ac Eximie Domine confrater, humillimus servus, De Saint pierre, Parochus, Missionarius. In parochia Immaculatae Conceptions 18 februarii 1786. [Translation.] men, who fear neither God nor the law, I am altogether determined to leave it on the first opportunity. I would transfer myself very gladly to the Canadian diocese, provided the gracious permission of the Very Illustrious Bishop is received. I am now importuning him to inform me and am expecting a favorable answer. I am till death, Reverend and Distinguished Brother, your humble servant, De St. Pierre, Priest and Missionary. Parish of the Immaculate Conception, February 18, 1786. Father Gibault to the Bishop of Quebec, June 6, 1786. [Archiépiscopal Archives, Quebec, — A. L. S.1] Oui, M., je me suis toujours appliqué à remplir tous les devoirs du St ministère, je faicts encore tout ce que je peux à présent pour les remplir et avec la grâce de Dieu je m'efforceray de les remplir encore mieux pour l'avenir. Je prends assez de confiance en Notre Seigneur Jésus Christ pour espérer bannir en peu de tems la barbarie du poste Vincennes dont les habitans et surtout la jeunesse n'avoient eu aucun principe de religion pendant 23 ans que quand j'y suis passé dans mes [Translation.] Yes, My Lord, I have always devoted myself to performing all the duties of the holy services. I still do all I can even now to fulfill them, and by the grace of God I shall try to perform them even better in the future. I have enough confidence in our Lord Jesus Christ to hope to banish in a short time barbarism from Post Vincennes, where the inhabitants, and especially the young people, had had no religious 1 Printed by the editor in Amer. Hist. Review, xiv.. No. 3, p. 553. One paragraph at the begin- ning has been omitted, since the ecclesiastical authorities at Quebec preferred that it should not be Srinted. Abbé L. Lindsay assures me that the paragraph contains nothing of importance for the istorian. A part of the letter was printed in translation by Mr. Shea in his Li le oj A rckbishop Carroll, pp. 469-470.
Page 535
GIBAULT TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, JUNE 6, 1786 535 missions fort courtes ainsi que Mr Payet, étant élevés comme les sau- vages au milieu desquels ils vivent. Je leur ay fait et je leur faits le catéchisme deux fois par jour, après la messe et le soir avant la soleil couché. Après chaque catéchisme, je renvois les filles et je faits dire les réponses de la messe et les cérémonies de l'église pour les festes et dimanches aux garçons. Je m'applique à prêcher les festes et dimanches le plus souvent qu'il m'est possible, en un mot, il y a un an et demi que je suis ici, et quand j'y suis arrivé je n'ay trouvé personne ny grand ny petit pour servir la messe qu'un vieil européen qui ne pouvoit pas tou- jours venir et alors point de messe. Deux mois après j'en avois plus- ieurs, et à présent jusqu'aux plus petits du village non seulement savent servir la messe mais les cérémonies des festes et dimans et tout le caté- chisme petit et grand. Je serois assez content du peuple pour le spirituel si ce n'étoit cette malheureuse traite d'eau de vie que je ne puis venir a bout de déraciner, ce qui m'oblige d'en éloigner plusieurs des sacremens, car les sauvages font des désordres horribles dans leur boisson surtout dans ces nations-cy. Nous sommes abandonnés à nous mêmes; point de justice, ou au moins point d'autorité pour la faire rendre. Mr Le [Translation.] teaching for twenty-three years except when I or Mr. Payet1 happened to pass through there on our short missionary journeys. The inhabi- tants have been brought up like the savages in the midst of whom they live. I have taught and still teach the catechism to them twice a day, after mass and before sunset. After each lesson in the catechism, I send away the girls and make the boys repeat the responses of the mass and the ceremonies of the church for feast-days and Sundays. I devote myself to preaching on feast-days and on Sundays as often as it is possi- ble for me to do so. In a word, I have been here for a year and a half; and when I arrived here I found no one, either grown up or young, to assist at mass except an old European who was not always able to come, and then there was no mass. Two months later I had several of them; and now even the smallest ones in the village know not only how to assist at mass but also at the ceremonies of the feast-days and Sundays, and all the lesser and greater catechism. I should be well enough 1 Father Louis Payet was born at Montrcal on August 25,1749, and was ordained priest February 26,1774. He was officiating as priest at Detroit in October, 1781. and he remained there until June. 1786. During this period ne made serveral missionary visits to Vincennes and once to Cahokia ana kaskaskia. Shea, Lif* 0f Archbishop CarroIIi 184, 472-474.
This page contains an image.
Page 536
536 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Gras et quelqu'un des principaux marchands et habitants font tout ce qui dépend d'eux pour tenir le bon ordre, et réussissent passablement. Je n'aurois pas réussi à faire faire une église en ce poste si les habitans des Kahokias ne m'avoient envoyez un courier avec une requête de toute la paroisse pour les desservir en m'offrant de forts grands avan- tages; les habitans du poste Vincennes craignant avec raison que je les abandonnasse ont résolu unanimement de faire une église de 90 pieds de long sur 42 de large sur solles et en colombage, dont une partie du bois est déjà tiré et quelque toises de pierre pour le sollage, elle n'aura que dix-sept pieds de poteaux, mais les vents sont si impétueux dans ces pays que c'est encore bien haut pour la solidité. La maison qui sert maintenant d'église me servira de presbytère, où je crois entrer dans quelques mois. Le terrain est vaste, bien sec, et au milieu du village; c'est moy-même avec les marguilliers qui avons acquis ce terrain il y a seize ans. Je vous prie d'aprouver cette bâtisse d'une nouvelle [Translation.] pleased with the spiritual condition of the people, were it not for this accursed trade in eaudevie which I cannot succeed in uprooting and which obliges me to refuse the sacraments to several, for the savages commit horrible disorders when in liquor, especially those of thèse nations here. We are abandoned to ourselves; there is no justice, or at least there is no authority to see that justice is rendered. M. Le Gras and some of the principal merchants and inhabitants do ail in their power to maintain good order, and they succeed tolerably well. I would not have succeeded in having a church built at this post if the inhabitants of Cahokia had not sent to me a messenger with a request from ail the parish to officiate for them, offering me some advantages. The inhabitants of Post Vincennes, fearing with reason that I might abandon them, resolved unanimously to build a church ninety feet long and forty-two feet wide on a foundation with studwork, for which a part of the lumber has already been brought and also a few toises of stone for the foundation. The church will have pillars only seventeen feet high, but the winds are so fierce in this country that even that is quite high for good strength. The house which serves me now as a church will serve me as a priest's house, into which I intend to move in a few months. The lot is large, very dry, and in the midst of the vil- lage; it was I myself, together with the marguilliers, who acquired this

Page 537
GIBAULT TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, JUNE 6, 1786 537 église sous le titre de St François Xavier sur Ouabache, et de m'en faire un commendement de la poursuivre et de l'orner autant que la pauvreté des habitans le permettra. Je ferai bien mon possible pour y engager les marchands qui viennent de toute par commercer dans ce poste, mais un mot d'exhoration de votre part feroit plus de loin que moy de proche; je vous prie de nous accorder cette grâce. Joignez donc présentement toutes les peines et les misères que j'ay souffertes dans les différens voyages que j'ay faits dans les endroits éloignés hyvers et été. Desservir tant de villages si éloignés et si éloignés aux Illinois beau tems ou mauvais, jour ou nuit, neige ou pluie vent ou tempête ou brume sur le Mississipi jusqu'à ne pouvoir coucher quatre nuits dans mon lit pendant un an, ne jamais différer de partir dans le moment même, moy-même me portant mal, comment un prêtre qui se sacrifie de la sorte sans aucune autre vue que la gloire de Dieu et le salut du prochain, sans aucun lucre, presque toujours mal nourri, ne pouvant vaquer au spirituel et au temporel, comment, dis-je, con- noitre ce prêtre zélé pour remplir les devoirs de son St ministère, soigneux de veiller sur son troupeau, de l'instruire des points les plus impor- [Translation.] land sixteen years ago. I beg you to approve of the érection of the new church under the title of St. François Xavier on the Wabash, and to command me, in respect to it, to continue building it and to decorate it as far as the poverty of the inhabitants will permit. I shall try my best to interest in its behalf the merchants who come from ail parts to trade at this post, but a word of exhortation from you would do more from a distance than I can do right here; I beg you to grant us this request. Count up, now, ail the troubles and poverty that I have suffered in my various journeys to distant places both in winter and in summer, in order to minister to so many villages so far separated in distant Illinois, in good weather or in bad weather, by day or by night, through the snow or through the rain, through wind or tempest or fog on the Mississippi, sothat I havenot beenableto sleep in my own bed more than four times in one year, never delaying my departure even in the very moment in which I was not feeling well myself. How can a priest who sacrifices himself in that manner, without any other end in view than the glory of God and the salvation of his fellowman, without any gain, almost
This page contains an image.
Page 538
S38 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS tants de la religion, instruire la jeunesse sans cesse et sans relâche non seulement de la doctrine chrétienne mais encore montrer à lire et écrire aux garçons, d'avec ce prêtre qui donne du scandale, qui est adonné à l'ivrognerie? Cecy me passe et implique contradiction. Un prêtre adonné à la mollesse ne se donne point tant de peine, ne s'importune point d'une bande d'enfants pour l'importuner, ne s'expose point à tant de dangers soit des sauvages, soit des eaux, soit des mauvais tems, ne sacrifie point tout ce qu'il peut gagner à construire des églises, faire faire des rétables et des tabernacles de mil écu sans conter le reste à ses frais et dépens. Si cecy n'est pas une marque du contraire je ne scais ou en prendre d'autres. Si vous ne m'en croyez pas à mes paroles croyez en à mes oeuvres, tout est subsistant. Pour ce qui est de ces veillés qu'on vous a dit que je prolongeois jusqu'à 3 et 4 heures du matin, j'ay été quelques fois aux noces, mais je n'ay jamais passé 9 heures ou 9 heures et demi. La raison en est visible: il faut que la jeunesse danse, et jamais je n'ay vue oter la table. On vous a dit que j'étois décrépit et caduc; autre fausseté. Je me porte aussi bien que je n'ay jamais fait. Je suis capable de faire les [Translation.] always badly nourished, not able to attend to the spiritual and the temporal, how, I repeat, can that priest, zealous to perform the duties of his holy office, diligent in keeping watch over his flock, in instructing it on the most important points of religion, not only in teaching the young, without ceasing and without relaxing, the Christian doctrine, but also teaching those boys to read and write; how can that priest be known as one who gives cause for scandai and is addicted to drunken- ness? This is my case and involves contradiction. A priest given to indolence doesnot give himself so much trouble, does not trouble himself with a crowd of children to annoy him, does not expose himself to so many dangers, either from the savages or from the water, or the bad weather, nor does he sacrifice ail he might gain in constructing churches, having altar-pieces and tabernacles worth a thousand crowns, without counting the rest, at his own cost and expense. If this is not a mark to the contrary then I do not know where to find others. If you do not believe my words in this matter, believe my works, ail is extant. As for the evenings which they told you I was prolonging till three or four o'clock in the morning, I have been sometimes to wedding-
Page 539
GIBAULT TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, JUNE 6, 1786 539 mêmes voyages que j'ay faits, je n'ay aucune douleur et n'en ai jamais eu, pas même eu une seule fois mal aux dents. Peut-être a-t-on cru que parce que je ne vas plus à la chasse et à la pêche comme je le faisois autrefois, c'étoit la vieillesse qui en étoit la cause, mais c'est mon gout qui est changé. Et en effet, m'étant dévoué tout entier à l'instruction de la jeunesse, à la réforme des moeurs et mauvaises habitudes d'un grand village presque barbare, les voyageurs et commerçans qui abond- ent icy de toutes les parties de l'Amérique, les autres exercices journaliers du ministère me permettroient-ils de faire ce que j'ay fait autrefois? Voilà la source de ma conduite. Pour le mal des yeux, il a été ici général, s'il étoit à la suitte de l'excès de la boisson, les plus petits enfans n'en auroient point été attaqués même plus que les grandes personnes. Après tout, ce mal n'a été que de très petite durée et ne m'a incommodé que peu de jours. Dieu préserve ceux de mon âge de ne pas plus se servir de lunettes que moy, sur tous après tant de mille lieues à dire [Translation.] feasts, but I never stayed later than nine or half past nine. The reason is clear: the young people must dance, and I have never seen even the table cleared. They have told you that I was worn out and feeble; another false- hood. I feel as well as I ever did. I feel capable of making the same journeys that I have made; I have no pain whatever and I never had any, not having had even a tooth-ache. Perhaps they thought that because I do not go hunting and fishing any longer, as I formerly did, that it was old âge that caused this, but it is my tastes which have changed. In fact, having devoted myself altogether to the instruction of the youth, to reforming the manners and bad habits of a large village almost barbarous, to travelers and merchants who come hère from ail parts of America, and to the other daily exercises of the ministry, would thèse activities permit me to do what I did formerly? That is the source of my conduct. As for being troubled with sore eyes, that is gênerai hère. If it were the resuit of excess in drinking, the little children would not have suffered from it more than the grown people. After ail, that trouble was but of short duration and inconvenienced me but for a few days. May God préserve those of my âge from wear- ing glasses more than I do, especially after traveling so many thousands of miles and saying my breviary by the light of the fire in the evening
This page contains an image.
Page 540
540 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS mon bréviaire à la clarté du feu le soir et la nuit et souvent dans la fumée et à l'ardeur du soleil dans le jour. En vérité Dieu m'a bien conservé. Je vois aussi bien que jamais, et je ne croyois pas pour 15 jours de mal aux yeux mériter le nom d'aveugle. Pour ce qui est du Commendant de Ste Genevieve pour ses pollicon- neries, il n'y en a point de pareil au monde, en même tems vous n'en trouverez peut-être point non plus de pareils pour toutes sortes de bonnes qualités. Il a été dix ans Commendant ici, aucun n'a eu un seul reproche à lui faire. Juste sans partialité ny acception de personne, point de compere ny commère, désintéressé au dernier point, solitaire chez lui, plein de religion luy même et mettant toute son autorité à la faire observer rigoureusement, jeûnant tous les mercredy de chaque semaine et gardant ce jour là l'abstinence indepandemment des autres jours très charitable, disant le Bréviaire exactement tous les jours, ayant bien étudié, et parlant bon latin, après cela que faire quand il poli- [Translation.] and night, and often in the smoke and in the heat of the sun during the day. In truth God has taken good care of me. I see as well as ever, and I do not think that, because I had sore eyes for fifteen days, I deserve the name of being blind. As to the rogueries of the commandant of St. Genevieve, he has no equal in the world. At the same time you will not find, perhaps, his equal for all sorts of good qualities. He has been commandant here for ten years and no one has had a single reproach against him.1 Just, without partiality or exception for anyone, with no confederate either man or woman, disinterested to the last degree, solitary at home, full of religion himself and employing all his authority in having religion rigorously observed, fasting every Wednesday, and observing on that day an abstinence independent of the other days, very benevolent, say- ing his breviary carefully every day, having studied well and speaking a good Latin; after all that what can one do when he is roguish? To remain quiet, that is all; for to save him is not possible. Neither the • In editing this letter for the Amer. Hist. Review (see xiv., No. 3. p. 554) the whole paragraph seemed to me to be out of place. because it has no connection with what goes before or after. Also there is great difficulty in identifying the Spanish commandant. François Valé, who was commandant for years and judge from 1779 till the date of his death, September 23, 1783, might have been called in 1783 a commandant who has served "ten years;" but his successor, DcCartabona,appointed in 1779, seems to have disappeared from upper Louisiana in 1784 (Houck, Hist. of Missouri, I., 346), and therefore does not fit the description. For these reasons I suggested that this paragraph was a part of the lost letter written by Father Gibault in 1783. (See «oi<. p. 521.) Further consideration makes me very uncertain of this identification, in spite of these difficulties.
Page 541
GIBAULT TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, JUNE 6, 1786 541 çonne, se taire, c'est tout, pour l'éviter il n'est pas possible, ny le Gou- verneur ny sa Dame ne sont pas plus épargnés que qui que ce soit hors le tems des affaires sérieuses. Vous connoissez mal la nation espagnole, tout est despotisme pour eux. Si vous n'allez pas a leur invitation ils envoient une ordonnance vous dire que le bien ou l'interest de Sa Majesté vous demande dans le moment au gouvernement, que faire? il faut s'en retirer comme j'ay fait, malgré les avantages que j'avois de la part du Roy dont je conserve les papiers, et ou j'avois de beaux apointemens en qualité de missionnaire à Ste Geneviève. Pour ce qui est des habitans du poste Vincennes qu'on a dit en Canada que j'avois induits dans le parjure, peut-être les habitans mêmes pour se tirer d'affaire avec le gouverneur Henri Amilton, ont-ils mis tout sur mon compte, peut-être luy même et les officiers ont-ils pris le prétexte qu'un peuple si ignorant n'avoit pu se laisser gagner que par moy, et de cette supposition leur pardonner leur faute en la fai- sant rejaillier toute entière sur moy. La vérité est que n'ayant point été au poste Vincennes depuis longtems trouvant une occasion favorable d'y aller avec Mr Laffont qui étoit bien accompagné, j'en profitay pour [Translation.] governor nor his wife are more sparing than anybody else except in time of serious affairs. You do not know the Spanish nation; for them ail is depotism. If you do not go at their invitation, they send you an ordinance which informs you that the welfare or the interest of His Majesty requires you at that moment for the government. What is one to do? One must withdraw, as I did, in spite of the advantages had from the king, papers concerning which I am keeping and in which I received some very advantageous appointments in the position of missionary to St. Geneviève. As concerns the inhabitants of Post Vincennes, whom, they have said in Canada, I led into treachery, it may be that the inhabitants themselves, in order to keep out of trouble with Governor Henry Ham- ilton, have put ail the responsibility on me; or It may be that he himself and the officers accepted the plea that a people so ignorant would not have allowed themselves to be won except by me, and on this supposi- tion have pardoned them their fault, and made it fall altogether on me. The truth is that not having been at Post Vincennes for a long time and finding a favorable occasion to go there with M. Laffont who was well
This page contains an image.
Page 542
54a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS faire ma mission. Si je m'étois mêlé dans une affaire de cette impor- tance, on auroit vu mon seing quelque part, on donnerait quelqu'autre preuve que celles cy on dit, on nous a rapporté, et d'autres semblables. Et moy j'ay eu le bonheur de retirer une attestation de Mr Laffont même aussitôt notre retour aux Illinois, sur quelques railleries qu'on me faisoit à ce sujet. Je vous l'envoie cette attestation écritte et signée de sa propre main en original, n'en gardant moy même qu'une copie crainte de me rendre suspecte. Vous jugerez plus sûrement sur des écrits que sur des paroles en l'air. Mais il est tems de conclure. Et que concluerez-vous de tout ce que j'ay pu vous dire? il vous est presqu' impossible d'y pénéter la vérité. On vous a dit d'une façon je vous dis presque le contraire. Vous ne connoissez ny ces pays ici ny les moeurs et vices de ceux qui les habitent. En Canada tout est civilisé, ici tout est barbare; vous êtes au milieu de la justice, ici l'injustice domine, aucune distinction du premier au dernier que par la force, par une langue pernicieuse calomniatrice et médisante et criant bien fort et exalant toutes sortes [Translation.] attended, I profited thereby in order to perform my mission. If I had meddled in an affair of this importance, my signature would have been seen somewhere. Other proofs would be given than those of, "they say," "word was brought to us" and others like unto thèse. I had the good fortune to obtain from M. Laffont himself a certificate as soon as we returned to Illinois, because of certain railleries about me on this subject. I am sending you that certificate, written and signed by his own hand, in the original, keeping myself only a copy for fear of rendering myself suspected.1 You will judge more rightly by means of writing than by mere idle words. But it is time to conclude. And what will you infer from ail I may have been able to say to you? It is almost impossible for you to pene- trate the truth. They told you certain things, I tell you almost the contrary. You know neither thèse régions nor the manners and vices of those who inhabit them. In Canada ail is civilized, hère ail is bar- barous. You are in the midst of justice, here injustice dominâtes. There is no distinction from the greatest to the least except that of force; of the tongue, pernicious, calumniating, and slanderous; of crying out 1 Sce anlf, p. 50.
Page 543
GIBAULT TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, JUNE 6, 1786 543 d'injures et de jurements. Tout le monde est dans la pauvreté qui engendre le vol et la rapine. Le libertinage et l'yvrognerie passent ici pour gentillesse et divertissement à la mode. Les fractures des mem- bres, l'assassinat à coupe de couteau, sabre ou épée (car en porte qui veut) les pistolets et les fusils sont des joujoux pour ces endroits-cy. Et qu'a-ton à craindre que le plus fort? mais on sera le plus traitre. Point de commendant, point de troupe, point de prison, point de bour- reau; toujours dans les petits endroits un tas de parents ou d'alliers qui se soutiennent tous, en un mot l'impunité antière, malheur aux étrangers. Je pourrois vous nommer un grand nombre de personne assassinées dans tous les villages de ces contrées, françois, anglois et espagnols sans aucunes autres suittes, mais je me contente de vous en indiquer deux dernièrement assacinées, Mr Guyon le jeune qui a étudié à Montréal a tué son beau père d'un coup de fusil aux Kas, et hier au soir ici un nommé Bellerose en a tué un autre à coup de conteau. Dans un mois j'ay bien peur d'en compter dix. Tout le reste est de même et encore pire pour le spirituel. Les festes les plus solennelles et les dimanches sont des jours destinés au bal et à l'yvrognerie, par con- [Translation.] very loud, and giving forth all sorts of insults and oaths. Everybody is in poverty, which engenders theft and rapine. Wantonness and drunkenness pass here as elegance and amusements quite in style. Breaking of limbs, murder by means of a dagger, sabre, or sword (for he who wills carries one) are common, and pistols and guns are but toys in these regions. And who has one to fear but the strongest, unless one will be the greater traitor. No commandant, no troops, no prison, no hangman, always as in small places a crowd of relatives or allies who sustain each other; in a word absolute impunity for these and ill luck for the stranger. I could name a great number of persons assassinated in all the villages of this region, French, English and Spanish without any consequence whatsoever; but I shall satisfy myself in naming two recently murdered: M. Guyon the younger, who studied at Montreal killed his father-in-law with a gun at Kaskaskia; and yesterday even- ing one named Bellerose killed another man here with a knife. In a month I fear that I may be able to count ten of these murders. In spiritual matters everything is the same or even worse. The most solemn feasts and Sundays are days given up to dances and drunken-
This page contains an image.
Page 544
544 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS séquent aux querelles et aux batailles. Les ménages brouillés, les pères et mères en discorde avec leurs enfants, des filles subornées et enlevées dans les bois, mil autres désordres que vous pouvez inférer de ceux cy, peuvent-ils souffrir un prêtre qui n'épargne rien pour leur mettre leurs fautes dans tout les jour devant les yeux, les en reprendre avec vigueux en particulier et en public sans se venger au moins par leur langue de la geine ou il les réduit et de la honte ou ils sont exposés, car souvent ils se croyent bien cachés. De la ils le calomnient en toute façon, le traitent comme ils veulent sans rien craindre. Les bêtises qu'un seul piqué au vif peut dire s'augmentent dans un autre, augmen- tent encore plus dans les voyages, et de village en village, enfin voilà un monstre à étouffer. Concluez ce qu'il vous plaira, pour moy voici ma conclusion. Je vais me retirer dans mon presbytère d'abord qu'il sera fini, avec mon bedeau et un petit garçon; alors Dieu veuille que les calomnies cessent au loin, mais j'en doute. La religion est trop persécutée icy pour ne pas tacher d'accabler ceux qui la soutiennent. Je vous prie [Translation.] ness, and consequently to quarrels and battles. With dissension in the homes, fathers and mothers in discord with their children, girls suborned and ravished in the woods, a thousand other disorders which you are able to infer from thèse. Can the people who do such things endure a priest, who spares nothing in order to set the faults of thèse sinners before their very eyes, and openly rebukes them with vigor both in private and in public, without avenging themselves at least by their tongues for the restraint to which he reduces them and for the shame to which they are exposed, for often they believe themselves well hidden? On account of this they slander the priest in every way, treating him as they will without fearing anything. The absurdities, which one, wounded where he is most sensitive, can say, augment in the mouth of another; they augment even more through travel from village to village, and at last you have a monster to put down. You may infer what you may wish, as for me thèse are my conclusions. I shall withdraw into my house, as soon as it shall be finished, with my beadle and little boy; then may God grant that slanderings may cease away from home, but I doubt it. There is too much opposition to religion here, for others not to try to overthrow those who sustain it.
Page 545
GIBAULT TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, JUNE 6, 1786 545 en même tems de considérer que je suis seul, abandonné à moy même; et quoique que j'aye beaucoup de bons livres, comme Pontas, Lamet et Fromageau, Ste Meauve, les conférences d'Anger, la conduite des âme, la conduite des confesseurs, le dictionnaire des conciles, le dictionnaire théologique, Collet, toute l'histoire ecclésiastique, quantité desermon- naires et beaucoup d'autres livres, malgré cela je me trouve souvent embarrassé dans plusieurs cas particuliers dans ces endroits. Comme par exemple presque tous les barbares de toutes les nations étant en guerre aussi bien avec les Royalistes qu'avec les Amériquains et les tuant et pillant journellement, est-il permis aux françois et aux Espagnols qui sont en paix avec les uns et les autres d'acheter de ces barbares leurs dépouilles qu'ils retirent à bon marché, et quelle conduitte tenir dans le for de la conscience? Les sauvages ne vendant leur viande, leur huile, leur suif que pour de l'eau de vie que les Espagnols et les anglois ne font aucune difficulté de leur donner, comment feront les françois [Translation.] At the same time I beg you to consider that I am ail alone, abandoned to myself; and although I have many good books such as Pontas, Lamet and Fromageau, Ste. Beauve, The Conférences of Angers, The Guidance of Soûls, The Guidance of Confessors, the Dictionary of the Councils, the Theological Dictionary, Collet, ail the Ecclesiastical History, a quantity of books of sermons and many other books;' in spite of this 1 often find myself perplexed in many cases peculiar to thèse régions. As for example, almost ail the savages of ail the nations are at war both with the royalists and with the Americans, killing and plundering them daily. Now is it permissible for the French and the Spaniards, who are at peace with both, to buy from thèse savages the booty which they get so cheaply? And what conduct is one to observe in the tri- bunal of one's conscience? Since the savages sell their meat, their oil, their tallow only for eaudevie, which the Spaniards and the English find 1 The books referred to are doubtless the following: Jean J*ont&s,Dictionnaire des Cas de Conscience, 2 vols. (Paris, 1715, 1724, 1728), with the two volumesof continuation by Lamet and Fromageau, Supplément au Dictionnaire des Cas de Conscience (Paris, 1733); Jacques Sainte-Beuve, Résolutions de plusieurs Cas de Conscience, 3 vols. (Paris, 1689-1704,1705-1715); Conférences Ecclésiastiques du Diocèse d'Angers, 24 vols. (Paris, 1775-1778); Roger François Daon,Conduite des Ames dans la Voie du Salut (Paris, 1750, 1753); id.. Conduite des Confesseurs dans le Tribunal de la Pénitence, selon les Instructions de Saint Charles Borromée et la Doctrine de Saint François de Sales (Paris, 1738,1740 . . . 1773, many éditions); Pons-Augustin Alleu, Dictionnarie Portatif des Conciles (Paris, 1758, 1764); id., Dictionnaire Théologique Portatif (Paris, 1756,1767, etc.); Pierre Collet, Institutions Theologicae, 3 and 5 vols. (Paris, 1744-1745, 1747-1748, . . . 1775); and the Abbé Claude Fleury's Histoire Ecclésiastique, 20 vols. (Paris, 1691-1720, and many subséquent éditions), with perhaps the continuation by Fabre. The above note I owe to the kindness of Dr. J. Franklin Jameson of the Carnegie Institution.
This page contains an image.
Page 546
S4« ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS pour en avoir? Ces commerçans surtout ne voulant en vendre que pour de la peleterie que ce pauvre père de famille n'a point et par la se voit réduit à manger du mais à l'eau pure dans tous ses travaux. Encore une autre affaire qui demande une attention de votre part à me donner une décision claire et précise, est que le pere Ferdinand Farmar vicaire général a philadelphie de l'évêque élu des provinces unies de l'Amérique, m'écrit de la part de cet évêque Mr Carrol de publier un jubilé pour tous les fidels catholiques de l'Amérique qui a été retardé par les guerres. J'ay reçu ce mandement l'hiver dernier je n'en ai seulement pas parlé et je n'en parleray point qu'après vos ordres. Je trouve singulier que l'adresse de ma lettre soit à Monsr Gibault grand vicaire de Monseigneur l'évêque de Québec, et que je reçoive inclus un mandement d'un autre évêque. Je recevrois plus volontiers une interdiction de mon évêque que des honneurs d'un autre. ainsi n'ayant aucune certitude de la distraction de cette partie du diocèse de Québec, je ne puis suivre que vos ordres. [Translation.] no difficulty in giving to them, what shall the French do to have some of these commodities? These merchants, moreover, do not wish to sell any except for peltries, which a poor father of a family has not; and therefore, he sees himself reduced to eat corn and drink pure water [to sustain his strength] for his work. Another affair which demands some attention from you, in order to give me a decision clear and to the point, is the following. Father Ferdinand Farmer,1 vicar general at Philadelphia of the bishop elect of the United Provinces of America, writes me, at the order of that bishop, M. Carroll, to proclaim a jubilee, which had been retarded by the wars, for all the faithful Catholics of America. I received this charge last winter. I have not even spoken about it and I shall not speak of it till after your orders. It is singular that the address of my letter is to M. Gibault, grand vicar of Monseigneur the Bishop of Que- bec, and that I should receive included therewith a charge from another bishop. I would receive more willingly a suspension from my bishop 1 Father Ferdinand Farmer (family name Steynmeyer) was born in Suabia, Germany, October 13. 1720. Heenteredthe Society of Jesus in 1743 and was sent to America. The scene of his labors was Philadelphia and its environs. He was during the colonial and revolutionary era one of the most noted priests in America. His sympathies were with the colonies during the struggle for independence. After the appointment of Rev. John Carroll to the headship of the Church in the United States Father Farmer became one of his chief advisers. He died August, 1786, Shea, Life 0} Archbishop Carroll, 278.
Page 547
GIBAULT TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, JUNE 6, 1786 547 Un Carme déchaussé, allemand, âgé de 34 ans, ayant ses lettres de prêtrise, un certificat du colonel du régiment dans lequel il servit d'au- monier jusqu'à la paix, des lettres de Grand vicaire pour desservir les bords du Mississipi sans mention d'un seul nom marqué, se faisant nommer l'abbé de St. Pierre, est venu il y a un an ici de la part de Mr Carrol évêque élu de l'Amérique duquel émanent ses lettres. Je n'ai osé luy rien dire sans vos ordres et je ne vous en ay pas parlé plutôt, me disant qu'il s'en retournoit en France par la Nouvelle Orléans, cependant il est encore aux Illinois, il m'a paru bien zélé mais d'un zele bien emporté pour ces pays sans justice. Ainsi vous ordonnerez tout ce que vous jugerez a propos dans ces conjonctures. Je veux supplie de me recommander à Dieu dans vos SS. sacrifices vous souven- ant des frères absens et de me croire avec respect et antiere obéissance Votre très humble, très obéissant soumis serviteur P. Gibault, Prêtre. Au poste Vincennes le 6e juin 1786. [Translation.] than honors from another. Since I have no certain knowledge of the séparation of this part of the diocèse of Québec, I can follow only your orders. A barefooted German Carmélite, thirty-four years old, with his priest's orders, a certificate from the colonel of the régiment in which he served as chaplain until peace was made, and some letters from the grand vicar granting him the privilège of ministering on the banks of the Mississippi without mention of any place in particular, whose name is Father de St. Pierre, came here a year ago in the name of M. Carroll, bishop elect of America, from whom came his orders. I did not dare to say anything to him without your orders, and I did not write to you about it sooner, for he kept saying that he was going to return to France by way of New Orléans. However he is still in Illi- nois. He seemed to me very zealous, but with a zeal quite unmanage- able for thèse régions without justice. Thus you will order ail that you may judge fit in thèse affairs. I beg you to recommend me to God in your holy sacrifices, remembering the absent brothers, and to believe me, with respect and entire obédience, Your very humble, very obedient, and submissive servant, At Post Vincennes, June 6, 1786. P. Gibault, Priest.
This page contains an image.
Page 548
548 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS FATHER DE LA VaUNTERE to THE INHABITANTS OF Cahokia, October 17, 1786. [C C Pp. xhra, 69.'— Attested Copy.] Copie de la lettre du Mr. huet de Lavaliniere vie. general au Mrs. des Cahos. Messieurs et Chers Enfans en notre Seigneur — Les Bruits mal fondez rependus sur le compte de Mr. votre curé étant parvenus jusqua nous nous nous sommes crû obligez de les eclaircir. En consequence nous avons pris pour adjoint le Reverend Père Bernard et autres, avec les lumières desquels nous avons découvert la malignité de ceux qui les ont inventés [?). Nous sommes donc très Charmés de pouvoir vous faire part de la joye que nous en ressentons et dans la persuasion que cela vous fera autant de plaisir que nous, nous ozons nous flater qu'en recompense vous ferez votre possible pour lui donner comme a votre légitime pasteur toute la satisfaction qui dépendra de vos services. [Translation.1 — Attested.] Copy of a letter from Mr. Huet de la Valinière Vicar General to the people of Cahos.8 Gentlemen & beloved children thro' our Lord, The ill-grounded reports circulated concerning Mr your Pastor having reach'd Us, we have thought Ourselves oblig'd to elucidate them.4 Therefore We have taken the assistance of the Worshipful father Bernard & others, with whose lights we have discover'd the malignity of those who have invented the same. We are therefore very much pleas'd that we can impart you the joy we feel thereat, & per- suaded that this will give you as much pleasure as to ourselves, We dare flatter Ourselves that in recompense you will do your possible to give him as to your lawful Pastor all the satisfaction that may depend from your services. The present shall be read after the sermon of the parochial Mass, 1 The French letters from the C. C. Pp. printed in this chapter were transcribed by Miss Edna Stone, copyist in the Library of Congress. 'The attested translation of this letter has been printed in Amer. Calh. Hist. Researches, New Ser., ii., No. 3, p. 210. Uy misreading |' Mr your Pastor" as "Me your Pastor" the copyist for the Historical Researches changed the meaning very considerably. •The copies of these letters concerning the ministry of Father de la Valinière were sent to Tardiveau in order that he might meet the accusations against himself made by the priest. (Ante. pp. 434, 4*0, 436.) For the life of Father de la Valinière see Introduction. These were accusations brought against Father de St. Pierre. See post, pp. 550, 573, 574, 592 \
Page 549
VALINIERE TO LABUXIERE, APRIL n, 1787 549 Sera la présente lue au prône de la messe paroissiale et affichée a la porte de l'Eglise en foi de quoy nous avons signé aux Cahos le dix sept octobre mil sept cent quatre vingt six, signe Pierre huet de Lavalin- iere prêt. vie. Pour copie conforme a L'original deposeé en mon notariat. Labuxiere Nre. P [Translation.1 — Attested.] & affixed to the door of the church. In testimony whereof We have signed. Cahos the seventeenth Day of October One thousand seven hundred & eighty six. Signed Pierre Huet de la Valinière Priest Vicar A copy conform to the original deposited in my office signed La Buxière Notary public I certify the above to be a true & literal translation from the original. New-york feby 7th 1788. B: Tardiveau. Father de la Valintere to Joseph Labuxiere, April 11, 1787 [C. C. Pp., xlviii., 61. — Attested Copy.] Copie de la lettre de Mr de lavaliniere a Monsieur Labuxiere de 11e Avril 1787. Monsieur, L'on m'a assuré que je ne puis mieux m'addresser, qu'a vous pour informer Messieurs des Cahos d'une chose des plus intéressantes, je vous prie donc, de leur faire lecture de la lettre qui suit. Lettre de Messire L. Huet de la valinière Vicaire General de long les districts au Nord de l'Ohio dit Belle rivière le long du Mississipi, [Translation. — Attested.] Copy of a Letter from M. De La Valinière to Monsieur La Buxiere of the nth of April, 1787. Sir, I have been assur'd that I can not address myself better than to you to inform the gentlemen of Cahokia of a most interesting business. I, therefore, request you to read them the following letter. Letter from M. Huet de La Valinière Vicar General in ail the Dis- tricts North of the Ohio, call'd Belle rivière, along the Mississippi, Wabash, Miamee, to Messieurs of Cahokia. 1 This translation has been printed in Amer. Catk. Hist. Reiearchti, New Ser., ii., No. 3, p. 12t.
This page contains an image.
Page 550
550 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Wabash, Miami et al a Messieurs des Cahokias salut et Benediction en notre Seigneur. Nous avons eu, nos très chers enfans, autant de plaisir, en vous laissant jouir d'un curé que vous sembliés désirer, comme nous avons aujourdhui sujet de nous attrister dans la crainte, qu'il vous soit plus préjudiciable, qu'utile. Vous n'avés pas ignoré, que la seule defference aux idées du R. P. Bernard, et d'un autre, qu'on vous avoit dit être de même avis, nous a décidé, maintenant vous pouvés decider vous même par une légère partie des raisons, qu'il nous donne, si notre repentir est juste et Iigitime. Vous voiés, si les idées, qu'il tache, de nous inspirer sur votre compte, vous font honneur et si une paroisse, dont notre Séminaire de Quebec, n'a eu, qu'a le bon [?] mérite, qu'on la fasse passer pour me connaître les vrais Supérieurs, ou non? La commission, dont le très haut, et celui, qui le représente ici, nous a chargé, nous ayant obligé, d'écrire a ce Mr votre pasteur, quoi en latin de peur de Scandai ainsi qu'il suit: vous ne vous imaginerés pas ce qu'il nous a repondu. Lettre de Mr le Vicaire General au Pere Pierre faisant fonction de Curé aux Kahokias en datte du 22 Avril [sic] 1787. Mon pere il y en a, qu'il disent, que vous avés administré le Sacrement de mariage en temps [Translation. — Attestai.] Greeting & Blessing thro' our Lord. We have felt, Our beloved children, as much Satisfaction in letting you enjoy a Parson whom you Seem'd to wish for, as we have now rea- son to be sorry, for fear he may be more prejudicial than useful to you. You have not been ignorant that We have been determin'd thereto merely thro' condescension to the opinion of the Worshipful father Ber- nard and another who, we were told, was in the same sentiments. You will now be able to decide yourselves, from a slender part of the reason he gives Us, Whether our regret be just & lawful. You See whether the ideas which he strives to inspire Us with on your account be to your credit, and whether a parish with which our Seminary at Quebec has always had room to be satisfied, deserves to be held out as not acknowl- edging their true Superiors, or not. The commission which the Most High, and He who represents him here, has charg'd Us with, having oblig'd Us to write that Mon- sieur, your Pastor, tho' in latin for fear of scandal, as follows, you could not imagine what answer he made Us.
Page 551
VALINIERE TO LABUXIERE, APRIL il, 1787 551 prohibé savoir en carême; nous ne savons, si cela est vrai ou faux, cepen- dant comme ici du temps, que vous avies pouvoir de dispenser, vous avés fait deux fautes — l'une en mariant un Catholique avec une pro- testante, l'autre en le faisant en carême a la Saint Joseph sans faire mention d'autre dispense, que de deux bans, comme en autre vous avés donné a Ste Geneviève une dispense nulle faut de droit, puisque ma venue vous avoit oté tout pouvoir je crainds, que vous ne fassiés la même chose. C'est pourquoi je prie votre Révérence de ne me donner aucune occasion de vous blâmer Vous avés lu la commission Specialle, qui nous a été donnée touchant vous et Mr. Gibault, or lorsque vous nous avés demandé les pouvoirs je ne vous ai certainement donné, qu'une jurisdiction ordinaire: C'est pourquoi si vous avés fait un tel mariage, il est au moins illicite s'il n'est pas invalide a cause du temps prohibé, or si vous avés donné d'autres dispenses soit d'affinité, ou de parentéme négliger pas, je vous prie, de nous en écrire pour que je vous permette de les rehabiliter, jusqu'ici rien ne paroitra dans le [Translation. — Attestée.] Letter from M. the Vicar General to Father Pierre acting in the capacity of Parson at Cahokia, dated 22d April[itc], 1787. father, there are some who say that you have administered the Sacrament of marriage in a prohibited Season, namely in the Lent. We do not know whether this be true or false. However, as it is some time since you had pow'r to dispense, you have committed two faults; the one in marrying a Catholick with a Protestant woman, the other in marrying them during the Lent on the day of St. Joseph, without mentioning any other dispensation but of two publications. Whereas, moreover, you have given at St. Geneviève a dispensation which is void for want of a right. Since my coming had taken from you ail pow'rs, I am afraid you will do the same thing. therefore, I beseech Your Révérence to give me no occasion to blâme you. You have read the Spécial Commission which has been given to Us conceming you and Mr. Gibault. Now, when you ask'd Us for the pow'rs, I hâve cer- tainly given you only ordinary Jurisdiction. Wherefore, if you have made Such a marriage, it is at least illégal, if it is not void, on account of the prohibited Season. Now, if you have granted other dispensations either of affinity or relationship, don't neglect, I beseech you, to write to Us on the Subject, that I give you leave to reinstate them. Hitherto
This page contains an image.
Page 552
552 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS public, pourvu, que depuis la réception de cette présente vous cessiés, d'agir ainsi dans la suite, vous garderés le même ordre pour toute dispense et absolution de cas réservés quand il n'y aura pas d'impossi- bilité de recourir a nous. vous ne croirés pas, nos très chers Enfans, que ce Monsieur n'a pas de haute de nous assurer qu'il a réellement fait ce, dont on l'accuse, mais que loin d'avoir fait faute en tout cela, il nous invite au contraire a en faire comme lui. Il n'est pas surprenant, qu'un Mr, qui n'a jamais fait ni Séminaire ni Vicariat, ne sache pas les règles, et l'on aurait pu lui pardonner ces fautes comme vous voyés, que je le lui offrais, si il les eut reconnu, et témoigné le dessein, de s'en corriger, mais il aime mieux faire passer les habitans, et peutetre leurs femmes pour les seuls maîtres, de qui il doit recevoir des instructions pour son ministère. Nous pensions que sachant lire il auroit pu regarder son rituel, et les registres pour voir, s'il aurait trouvé quelqu'nes des pistes sur lequels il a voulu marcher. D'ailleurs nous n'étions pas si éloigné, pour qu'il ne put nous consulter, ou bien qu'elqu'autre prêtre, mais voulant lever l'etendart de la [Translation. — AUested.] nothing shall transpire in the public, provided after the réception of this letter you cease to behave So for the future. You shall observe the same order touching ail dispensations, & absolutions in reserv'd cases, when there is not an impossibility of having recourse to Us. You wou'd not believe, Our beloved children, that this Gentleman is not asham'd to assure Us that he has indeed done the thing of which he is accus'd, but that far from having committed a fault in ail that he invites Us on the contrary to do as he has done. It is no wonder that a gentleman who has never been in the Seminary, nor been a Curate shou'd be ignorant of the rules, and one might have pardon'd him his faults, as you see I offer'd to him, if he had acknowl- edg'd them, & manifested an intention of reforming. But he had rather hold out the inhabitants, & perhaps their wives, as the sole mas- ters from whom he must receive instructions concerning his Ministry. We thought that, as he can read, he might have look'd into his Common prayerbook [Rituel] & the Registers to see whether he wou'd have found any of the tracks which he wanted to tread on. Besides, We were not so far off but he might have consulted Us or Some other Priest. But,
Page 553
VALINIERE TO LABUXIERE, APRIL h, 1787 553 révolté, il ne se contente pas, de soulever ceux d'ici, de la Prairie du Rocher, mais il ose deja nous assurer, qu'il s'en trouveroit a peine un chez vous, qui veille nous recevoir comme grand Vicaire, il dit que vous dites sur notre compte des choses si affreuses, et en si grand nombre, que nous ne dignons pas, de les repeter: mais nous pourons les montrer en tems et lieu. Quoi qu'il en soit, nos très chers frères, avant que le Congrès en décide comme le salut de vos ames doit sur tout nous occuper et que d'ailleurs ce Mr paroit dans la ferme resolution de continuer, nous vous avertissons de la part du Reverendissime du Dieu, qui nous a envoyé et de l'Eveque de Québec, qui nous a donné ses pouvoir, si tante sois, il en a ici quelqu'un nous a t il dit et Prefect Apostholique chargé de la part du Pape de la conduite de ce pays, que toute dispense, ou abso- lution de cas réservés, lorsqu'on peut avoir recours a nous, sera nulle, si ce Monsieur la donne sans permission expresse, et par écrit de notre part a ce sujet, et si vous avés connaissances qu'il en ait donné, mandés [Translation. — Attested] wishing to lift up the Standard of rébellion, he is not satisfied with raising those of this parish, but he dares to assure Us that there wou'd hardly one be found amongst you who wou'd receive Us as Grand Vicar. He says that you say upon Our account Such horrid & So many things that We disdain to repeat them; but We may shew them when time & opportunity serves. However, it may be, Our beloved Brethern, before Congress décide upon it, as the salvation of your Soûls must principally be our care, and as that gentleman seems to be firmly resolv'd to go on, We Warn you, in the name of that God who has sent Us, and of the Bishop of Québec who has given Us his pow'rs, (if however he has any here, did he say) & of the most Worshipful Préfet Apostolick entrusted by the Pope with the government of this country, that ail Dispensations, or Absolutions in reserv'd cases, when recourse may be had to Us, will be null, if that Gentleman gives it without express permission in writing from Us concerning the same, And if it cornes to your Knowledge that he has given any, inform Us of it as soon as possible, that we beg of the Révérend father Bernard, & that we give him Spécial commission to remedy ail that is past. By so doing, Our beloved Brethren, you will prove that what he
This page contains an image.
Page 554
554 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS nous le plutot possible, afin, que nous prions le R. P. Bernard et que nous lui donnions commission expresse, de remedier a tout le passé. faisant cela nos t. ch. freres, vous prouverés, que ce, qu il vous impute dans les ecrits, que nous avons entre les mains, n'est qu'une imposture de sa part, et que vous ne trempés pas dans ses fautes. En attendant nous sommes avec une tendre, et respectueuse affection en J. Ch. nos chers enfans Votre tres humble Serviteur P. HUET DE LA VALINIERE Cette [ ?] copie conforme a loriginal deposé en mon Etude. Labuxxère Nr. P. [Translation. — Attested.] imputes to you in his writing which are in Our hands is nothing but an imposture on his part, & that you are not accomplices of his faults. In the mean while we are, with a tender & respectful affection thro' Jesus-Christ, our beloved Children Your most humble Servant Signed P. Huet de la Vallnlère Vicar General A Copy conform to the original deposited in my office. Signed Labuxiere Notary public. I certify the above to be a true & literal translation from the original. New-york, february the 7th 1788. B : Tardiveau. The Inhabitants of Cahokia to Father de la Valinière April 22, 1787 [C. C. Pp., xlviii., 77.1 — Attested Copy.] Copie de la lettre ecritte par les habitans des Cahos a Mr Lavaliniere en reponse de celle quil leur a ecrit le 11. davril 1787. Monsieur. Nous avons vû et lu a haute et inteligible voix dans lassemblée des habitants des Cahos convoquée ce jourdhui dimanche [Translation.2— Attested.] Copy of the letter written by the Inhabitents of Cahokia to M. de la Valiniere in answer to that he wrote them the 11th April 1787. 1 There is a copy of this letter in the Archiepiscopal Archives of Quebec. 2This translation has been printed in Amer. Cath. Hist. Researches, New Scr., ii., No. 3, p. 222.
Page 555
INHABITANTS TO DE LA VALINIERE, APRIL 22, 1787 555 a lissue de la grande messe de cette paroisse votre lettre en datte du 11. davril présent mois a nous adressée qui nous a été remise par Mr. Labux- iere. Nous y repondons en vous déclarant tous dune commune voix que Mr. de St. pierre notre curé, pasteur et missionnaire a toute notre confi- ance et que nous n'avons que des louanges et aplaudissements a faire de luy et du zele spirituel avec lequel il nous instruit aussi que nos Enfans; c'est en vain que vous voudriez nous oter la confiance que nous avons en luy, son atachement pour nous et son desinteressment nous est connû. ainsi Monsieur dispensez vous de nous rien écrire advantage de desa- vantageux a la conduite dun prêtre aussi digne de respect comme Mr. de St. Pierre et que nous reverrons tous. Tant qu'au mariage qu'il a fait dans notre paroisse a la saint joseph, il avait des raison légitimes pour le faire. Sa conduite pour tous les cas que vous luy imputés dans la lettre que vous nous écrivez est irréprochable. Et vous nous faites sentir que la haine que vous avez conçue contre la dignité de notre curé est le seul motif qui vous fait agir. Nous sommes des plus sensibles [Translation. — Attested.] Sir, We have seen and read with a clear & audible voice, in the assembly of the inhabitants of Caho convened this day Sunday after the Great Mass of this parish, your letter bearing date the nth of April présent month, to us address'd & which has been handed by Mr. La Buxiere. We answer the same by declaring to you ail of us with an unanimous voice that M. de St. Pierre our Parson, Pastor & Missionary has ail our confidence, & that we have only to praise &applaudhim & the spiritual zeal with which he instructs us as well as our children. It is in vain that you expect to robb us of the confidence we repose in him, his attachment to us & his disinterestedness is shown to us, therefore, Sir, dispense writing us anything more disadvantageous to the conduct of a Priest as worthy of respect as M. de St. Pierre whom we ail révérence. As to the marriage which he has celebrated in our parish on St. Joseph's day, he had lawful reasons so to do. His conduct in the cases which you impute to him in the letter you write us is irreproachable, and you give us to understand that the hatred which you have conceiv'd against the dignity of our Parson is the only motive which actuates you. We are very much affronted at the shocking & insulting expressions you make use of in your letter when you say that he has need of our
This page contains an image.
Page 556
556 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS aux termes choquant et insultant dont vous vous servez dans votre Let- tre en nous disant quil a Besoin de nos instructions et des celles de nos femmes pour se conduire un tel propos sent L'ironie et le libel diffama- toire, joint avec le trouble et la desunion que vous avez mis dans les villages de cette Rive depuis que vous y êtes sont suffisant pour nous de terminer et vous déclarer que nous ne vous recevrons ici ou vous re- garderons jamais comme grand vicaire des ilinois. La tranquilité dont nous jouissons nous est si chère que nous craindrions avec raisons par les termes dont vous vous servez publiquement et par les censures que vous lancez contre le plus honnestes gens que vous voudriez éteindre le flambeau de la religion. Nous ne croyons pas devoir vous en écrire plus long cela suffit pour vous prouver nos sentiments enver vous et vous prouver que nous ne sommes pas disposez et que nous ne nous soumetrons jamais a vous recevoir pour grand vicaire, vous priant de ne pas vous y exposer amoins que vous nayez de Bons orders de Mr. Levèque de que- bec et de Mr. de Mongolfier auxquels nous écrivons a votre sujet Et quand bien mêmes vous en auriez nous verions alors si nous devons nous y déterminer, nous avons crû quil etoit de notre devoir denvoyer la [Translation. — Attesttd.] instructions & those of our wives to conduct himself. Such a discourse savours of irony & diffamatory libel, [and] together with the trouble & disunion you hâve spread in the villages of this shore since you are here are sufficient to détermine us to déclare to you that we will never receive or consider you as Grand Vicar of the Illinois. The tran- quility which we enjoy is so dear to us that we wou'd be justly afraid, from the expressions you make use of publickly & the censures you throw out against the most honest people, that you wou'd extinguish the lamp of religion. We apprehend we need not say more. This is sufficient to évidence our sentiments towards you & shew you that we are not dispos'd, and will never submit to receive you as Grand Vicar, desiring you not to expose yourself, except you have good orders from His Lord- ship the Bishop of Québec & M. de Mongolfier to whom we write on your account. And even should you have such orders, we would see then whether we must détermine ourselves to it. We have thought it was incumbent on us to send a copy of this présent to Messrs. Lachanse, Janis, St. James & Vital Bauvais to dissuade them from the prosti- tution you wanted to make of our Pastor. We hope they will return
Page 557
INHAB1TANTS TO DE LA VALINIERE, APR1L 22, 1787 557 copie de la présente a Mrs. la chansse, janis, St. James, et vital Beauvais pour les dissuader de la prositution que vous avez voulû faire de notre pasteur, nous espérons quil luy rendrons toute leur estime si en cas il l'avoit perdue. Aussi Monsieur tenez vous tranquile dans votre paroisse et ne cherchez pas a mètre le trouble et la desunion entre notre pasteur et nous — il vous seroit impossible d'y parvenir, et soyez assuré que toutes les lettres ou écrit nous venant de votre part seront rejetes et a vous renvoyées sans les lire, nous tiendrons toutes les censures et diffamations que votre vengeance pouvoit vous sugerer contre nous avec mépris, c'est de quoy peuvent vous assurer les habitants des Cahos Soussignez il est enjoui a Mr. Labuxiere notaire de déposer la présente Lettre en son notaria pour y avoir recour quand besoin sera, et d'en envoyer copie a Mr. de Lavaliniere, a Mr. Janis, La Chanse, St. geme, et vital Beauvais aux Cahos le vingt deux avril mil sept cent quatre vingt sept, signé a Loriginal = Fs. Saucier = J. Bpte. La Croix = Le Brun = Chatel = ant. girardin = Ch. ducharme = dubuque comdt.= dumay.= Gervaise et, Sous Copie conforme a loriginal déposé en mon Notiara. Labuxiere Nre. P. [Translation. — Attestée.] him ail their esteem, if perchance he had lost it. Therefore Sir, Keep yourself quiet in your parish & don't seek to sow trouble, & disunion between our Pastor& us. It wou'd be impossible for you to succeed in it, and be assur'd that ail letters or writings coming from you shall be rejected & to you sent back without being read. We shall treat with contempt ail censures & diffamations which your vengeance might suggest you against us. that's what can certify to you the in- habitants of Cahokia under-written.1 M. La Buxiere Notary is enjoined to deposit the présent letter in the office that recourse may be had thereto when necessary & to send copies thereof to M. de la Valiniere, to Messrs. Janis, La chanse, St. Geme & Vital Bauvais. Cahokia the twenty-second day of April One thousand seven hundred & eighty-seven. Signed on the original fs Saucier, J. Bte Lacroix, Lebrun, Chatel, Ant. Girandin, Ch. Du- charme, Dubuque Comdt, Dumay, Gervais. A copy conform to the original deposited in my office. Signed La Buxiere Notary public. 1 This and the following attacka on Father de la Valiniere should be TOmpared with hia counler charges, prinled ante, p. 424, 429. 436.
This page contains an image.
Page 558
558 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS I certify the above to be a true & literal translation from the original. New-york feby 7th 1788. B : Tardiveau. FATHER DE I.A VALINIÈRE tO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, May 26, 1787. [Archiepiscopal Archives, Quebec. — A. L. S.] A Sa Grandeur Mgr Hubert, Illustrissime et Révérendissime Evêque de Québec. Monseigneur, La manière avec laquelle je me suis exprimé dans ma dernière (dont j'ignore la réception) au sujet de ma renonciation forcée au droit du Séminaire, sentiroit peut-être un intérêt dont ma conduite passée envers les pauvres dément cependant l'idée. Néanmoins comme le plus léger soupçon d'une telle foiblesse en un prêtre pouroit empêcher le bien que je pourois faire en votre diocèse et que je ne fais pas certaine- ment ici, je puis assurer Votre Grandeur que quelque petite cure que vous puissiez me donner, pourvu que j'y puisse être utile au salut des âmes, j'en aurai toujours assez, et j'aime mieux que ce soit d'autres qui fassent des sotises que moi. Faites moi l'honneur de me répondre le plus tôt possible. [Translation. — Attested.] To His Lordship Monseigneur Hubert, Most Illustrious and Most Reverend Bishop of Quebec. Monseigneur: The manner in which I expressed myself in my last letter — I do not know whether you received it — on the subject of the forced renun- ciation of my rights in the Seminary might give an idea of self-interest which, however, my past conduct towards the poor belies. As, never- theless, the lightest suspicion of such a feebleness in a priest might prevent the good that he could do in your diocese, and since I am cer- tainly not doing anything here, I can assure your Lordship that some little parish that you could give me, provided I could be useful in the salvation of souls, would be sufficient for me; and I prefer that others should talk foolishly rather than myself. Honor me with as early a response as possible.
Page 559
VALINIERE TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, MAY 26, 1787 559 Je ne scay aucune nouvelle, je ne me mêle ni de la guerre ni de la paix et je cherche en vain la dernière, c'est pour cela que je suis venu au bout du monde. Toutefois l'ennemi de notre salut m'y poursuit encor et m'y trouble. Un Carme sans lettres de prêtrise venu là de lui-même y soulève les peuples, et Mr Gibeau tient toujours la conduite qui vous est connue. J'irai donc me prosterner à vos pieds et vous ferai resouvenir de la réponse que vous me fîtes l'honneur de me faire, lorsque dans mes petites difficultés je vous dis ces parolles du Seigneur: "Si l'on traite ainsi le bois verd que fera-t-on au bois sec? Car je pense qu'on ne me peut rien reprocher." Vous eûtes la bonté de me dire: "Je vous en donnerai bien un certificat quand vous le voudrez." Grâce au Seigneur, je n'ai point changé de conduite, et le seul vrai chagrin que j'aye c'est de ne pouvoir faire du bien ni aux âmes ni aux corps. Si j'ai fait quelque faute, quoique je la connoisse pas, elle devroit être effacée par ce que l'on m'a fait souffrir. L'idée que j'avois conçue pour procurer la paix tant à mes ennemis qu'à moi, d'aller fonder la relligion à Charles-town, s'est évanouie parce que le consul de New [Translation.] I know no news. I do not take part either in the war or in the peace, but I seek vainly the latter; it is for this that I have come to the end of the world. Nevertheless the enemy of our salvation pursues me and troubles me here. A Carmélite without letters of priesthood has come here and is arousing the people to insurrection, and M. Gibault continues always the conduct which is known to you. I will go, then, to prostrate myself at your feet and will recall to your memory the answer which you did me the honor to make me, when, during the time of my little difficulties, I said to you those words of the Lord: "If one treat thus the green wood, what will one do to the dry wood? For I think that one can reproach me in nothing." You had the good- ness to say to me then: "I will certainly give you a certificate when you shall wish it." Thanks be to the Lord, I have not changed in conduct, and the only true grief I feel is not being able to do good to soûls and bodies. If I have committed some fault, although I know it not, it should have been effaced by what I have been made to suffer. The idea which I had conceived of procuring peace both for my enemies and for myself
This page contains an image.
Page 560
560 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS York ainsi que beaucoup d'autres m'ont assuré que ce pais là est si malsain qu'aucun européem n'y peut passer l'age de quarante ans. Et d'ailleurs le libertinage y est, dit-on, aussi commun qu'aux isles; cela m'a fait préférer ce pais français ou je ne trouve que le dernier de ces inconvéniens. Mais comme un lièvre poursuivi par les chiens revient toujours à son gite, de même je désire que le Canada qui m'a fait prêtre et auquel je puis rendre encore quelque service, reçoive les derniers fruits de mon sacredoce ainsi qu'il en a eu les premiers. J'ai l'honneur d'être en attendant celui de votre réponse avec un profond respect, Monseigneur, Votre très humble et très obéissant serviteur, P. Huet de la Valinière, Vic. Gl. Aux Kas. Illinois ce 26 may 1787. [Translation.] by going to establish the religion at Charleston has been abandoned, because the consul at New York as well as many others assured me that that country is so unhealthy that no European could live there beyond the age of forty: and besides libertinism is as common there, they say, as on the islands. This has made me give the preference to this French country where I find only the latter of these inconveniences. But just as a hare pursued by dogs returns always to his burrow, so I desire that Canada which has made me priest and to which I can render still some service should receive the last fruits of my sacrifice as it has had the first. I have the honor to be, while awaiting your answer, with a pro- found respect, Monseigneur, Your very humble and very obedient servant, P. Huet de la Valinlère, Vicar General. Kaskaskia, Illinois, May 26, 1787. Inhabitants of Cahokia to the Seminary of Quebec, June 6, 1787 [Archiepiscopal Archives, Quebec. — Copy.] Extrait d'une lettre des habitants et marguilliers de la fabrique et [Translation.] Extract of a letter from the Inhabitants and Marquilliers of the
Page 561
INHABITANTS TO SEMINARY OF QUEBEC, JUNE 6, 1787 561 mission de la Ste Famille des Cahos aux Illinois pour les Messieurs du Séminaire de Québec. Monsieur, [sic.] Les habitans qui composent la paroisse de la Ste Famille des Cahos croyent ne devoir pas vous laisser ignorer les démarches que le Sr Jautard, faisant sa résidence depuis quelques années à Montréal, a fait pour disposer des biens de cette mission, en l'année 1785, le 19 mai. Il donna sa procuration au Sr Augustin Dubuque, marchand voyageur de Montréal, pour faire vendre ce qui restent existant de cette dite mission, qui consiste aux quatre murailles d'une maison de pierre avec 300 pieds de terrain de large sur 900 pieds de long, et trois arpents de terre de large sur la longueur des autres terres des habitans, ce fondé de pouvoir a fait vendre de sa seule autorité par le ministère d'un huissier après trois criées ces dits biens; nous n'avons fait aucune opposition n'ayant pas eu connoissance dans le temps de la procuration que Mrs les supérieurs du Chapitre autorisés par Mgr l'Evêque avoient envoyé à Mr l'abé Gibault passée devant Mrs Panet et Sanguinet notaires à [Translation.] Fabrique and Mission of the Holy Family of Cahokia at the Illinois to the Gentlemen of the Seminary of Québec. Sir: [sic.] The inhabitants composing the parish of the Holy Family of Cahokia believe that they ought not to leave you in ignorance of the action which M. Jautard, whose résidence for some years past has been Montréal, has taken on May 19, 1785, to dispose of the property of this mission.1 He gave his power of attorney to M. Augustin Dubuque, traveling mer- chant of Montréal, to have him sell what still remained of the property of this said mission. This consists of the four walls of a stone house with ground three hundred feet wide by nine hundred feet long,and also a field three arpents wide with a length the same as the fields belonging to the inhabitants. M. Dubuque, entrusted with authority, has caused this said property to be sold on his sole authority through the agency of a huissier after three announcements. We made no opposition, since we had no knowledge at the time of the power of attorney which the superiors of the chapter by the authority of the bishop had sent to Father Gibault. This power of attorney was drawn up before MM. Panet 1 Other documents bearing on the same case have been printed in /// Hist. Colltdûms, iï., 407 ri stq.
This page contains an image.
Page 562
56a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Québec le 14 mai 1768, dont Mr Gibault n'a fait aucun usage, laquelle nous a été communiquée vers le mois d'avril 1786 par Mrde St Pierre prêtre desservant notre mission, Et après que l'adjudication en a été faite par cet huissier, Monsr de St Pierre n'ayant desservi notre paroisse qu'après et à qui Mr Gibault a transmis ces pouvoirs concernants la mission des Cahos. Nous avons vu par cette procuration que toutes les ventes que Mr l'abé Forget Grand Vicaire de Monseigneur avoit faites étoient nulles n'y ayant jamais été autorisé par le Chapitre et que vous entendiez Messieurs, que tous les biens de la mission rentrassent au pouvoir du missionnaire qu'il vous plairoit envoyer et des habitans qui composent la dite paroisse pour être maintenus et conservés à perpétuité à ladite mission et paroisse et les revenus en provenants être employés à l'entretien d'icelle et du missionnaire, en y faisant par nous les dépenses et réparations nécessaires pour son rétablissement et entretien, le Chapitre n'entendant entrer dans aucun frais; c'est en conséquence que nous avons cassé et annulé juridiquement toutes les ventes faites par Mr l'abé Forget et autres qui s'en sont ensuivies et annulé les pièces que le fondé de pouvoir du Sr Jautard avoit fait faire [Translation.] and Sanguinet, notariés of Québec, May 14, 1768; but M. Gibault has made no use of it. This has been communicated to us about the month of April, 1786, by M. de St. Pierre, the priest serving our mission, after the sale of the property by auction had been made by this huissier, for M. de St. Pierre began serving our parish only afterwards, and M. Gibault transmitted to him those powers concerning the mission of Cahokia. We have learned from this power of attorney that ail the sales made by Father Forget,1 grand vicar of Monseigneur, were null and void, since they had never been authorized by the chapter, and that you intended, gentlemen, that ail the property of the mission be under the power of the missionary, whom it pleased you to send, and of the inhabitants who compose the said parish, to be maintained and held in perpetuity for the said mission and parish, and that the revenues pro- ceeding therefrom should be employed for the maintenance of it and of the missionary, and that we should make therefrom the necessary expenses and cost of repairs for the establishment and maintenance of the property, since the chapter did not intend to enter into any expense. 'TV Uji vicar gênent in the minois country under the Freoch régime.
Page 563
INHABITANTS TO SEMINARY OF QUEBEC, JUNE 6,1787 563 concernant l'adjudication dont le Sr Dubuque fondé de pouvoir s'étoit rendu adjudicataire de la maison et terrain l'ayant luimême mise à 1000 et où elle a resté personne n'ayant voulu surenchérir et les terres aux environs de trois cents livres y compris quelques autres effets comme portes fenestres châssis et planchers que les habitans avoient sauvés des injures du temps et pillage. Desquels biens nous nous sommes remis en possession. Nous avons commencé par faire un presbytère pour loger notre curé qui nous a coûté près de cinq mille livres la maison de pierre ayant été entièrement ruinée par les troupes angloises et Améri- quaines qui y ont logé, fait les dégradations ordinaires où ils passent et les injures du temps par lequel elle a été abandonnée n'y restant actuellement que les quatre murs encore susceptibles de beaucoup de réparations sans couvertures, combles, ni planchers et les cheminées renversées, aucunes clôtures sur les terrains, le verger entièrement détruit sans apparence qu'il y en ait jamais eu, tous les autres batimens détruits jusques aux puits qui ont été comblés. [Translation.] Consequently, we have judicially set aside and annulled ail the sales made by Father Forget and others who have succeeded him and have annulled the instruments which the attorney of M. Jautard has had made and which concerned the sale by auction. M. Dubuque himself bid for the house and adjacent land one thousand livres, and at that price the bidding stopped, since no one was willing to raise the bid, and for the other lands and some other property, such as bridges, Windows, sashes, and flooring, which the inhabitants have saved from the injury of time and pillage, he bid about three hundred livres. We hâve re-estab- lished you in the possession of thèse goods. For the purpose of lodg- ing our curé we have begun by building a priest's house which has cost us almost five thousand livres. [We were obliged to do this] because the house had been entirely ruined by the English and American troops who have lodged there. The defacements and injuries it had suffered during the time it was abandoned were such that there remains standing only the four walls, which can be repaired with much labor, for they are without a roof-covering, false-roof, flooring, and the chimneys have tumbled down; there are some fences on the land; the orchard has been so destroyedthat there is left no vestige of it; ail the other buildings have been destroyed even to the wells, which have been filled in.
This page contains an image.
Page 564
564 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Nous avons destiné les ruines de cette maison pour en faire une église, notre ancienne église de bois étant tombée et obligés de dire la messe dans une maison à loyer. Nous avons commencé à travailler à notre église projetée laquelle nous reviendra à plus de quinze à seize mille livres. Comme la mission n'a plus aucuns esclaves ni bestiaux d'aucune espèce Mr Forget ayant palpé le tout et emporté les fonds de ce dont il a pu être payé, les trois arpents de terre devenants à charge à la mission par les dépenses des clôtures et leur entretien nous avons délibéré conjointement avec Mr de St Pierre de les donner à rente, et après trois criées elles n'ont monté qu'à une somme très modique de seize à dix-huit livres par chaque arpents de rente annuelle et les ter- rains de 150 pieds quarrés depuis 20 jusqu'à six par arpents année de rente ne pouvant survenir à l'entretien. Tant qu'aux autres biens comme esclaves, moulins et Bestiaux tous ces articles ont entièrement été dissipés et dénaturés au départ de Mr Forget tant par ventes, liberté donnée que don manuel des Bestiaux de sorte que il ne se trouve rien de ces articles à la mission. Il y a encore d'existant quelques familles de nègres sur la partie espagnole qui sont considérables par leur valeur. [Translation.] We have decided to build a church of the ruins of this house, for our former wooden church has fallen and we are obliged to say mass in a rented house. We have commenced to work on our projected church which will cost us more than fifteen or sixteen thousand livres. Since the mission no longer has any slaves or animais of any kind, M. Forget having pocketed and carried away the money which he was able to collect for them, and since the three arpents of land will become a charge against the mission on account of the expense for fences and maintenance, we consulted with M. de St. Pierre and decided to rent it; and after three announcements there has been bid only the very moderate sum of sixteen to eighteen livres per annum for each arpent, which is not enough to cover the cost of maintenance. As to the other property, such as slaves, mills, and animais, ail thèse hâve been entirely dispersed and made unusable at the departure of M. Forget, either by sales, the granting of liberty to the slaves, or by donation of the animais so that none of thèse things are to be found at the mission. There are still existent some families of negroes on the Spanish side who are of considér- able value. They are living either at St. Louis of the Illinois or at New
Page 565
INHABITANTS TO SEMINARY OF QUEBEC, JUNE 6, 1787 565 Ils sont domiciliés tant à St Louis des Illinois qu'à la Nouvelle Orléans à qui Mr Forget a donné la liberté et d'autres qu'il a vendus sans y être autorisé. Il s'en trouve même ici dans la paroisse des Cahos. Nous avons réclamé ceux de la partie espagnole au commandant en chef de la partie des Illinois qui s'y est refusé. Comme cela est une affaire du gouvernement et que le Chapitre s'y trouve intéressé nous n'avons pu rien espérer et avons pris le parti du silence surtout sous un gouvernement aussi despote, nous étant restraint à vous prier, Messieurs, de vouloir bien vous intéresser à faire rentrer ces nègres au pouvoir de notre mission lesquels ont beaucoup augmenté par la propagation. Avant d'avoir vu le contenu en la procuration adressée à Mr Gibault, nous étions tous dans l'incertitude de savoir si les ventes de Mr Forget auroient lieu ou non. Nous craignons de faire de fausses démarches et de nous constituer en des dépenses inutiles; cette procuration qui nous a été remise nous a rassuré et ouvert les yeux et nous travaillerons actuellement au rétablissement de notre mission autant qu'il sera en notre pouvoir. Nous vous supplions, Messieurs, de vous intéresser auprès de Monseigneur et du Chapitre pour autoriser et ratifier de nouveau les [Translation.] Orléans, and were either given their liberty or were sold by M. Forget without being authorized to do it. There are some even here in the parish of Cahokia. We have reclaimed those living on the Spanish side from the major commandant of the Illinois district, but he has refused to do anything. Since that is a governmental affair and the chapter is interested therein, we could not expect to do anything, and have taken the part of silence especially with so despotic a govern- ment; and we limit ourselves to praying you, gentlemen, kindly to interest yourselves to cause thèse negroes to re-enter into the power of our mission. Thèse hâve greatly increased by propagation. Before we saw the contents of the power of attorney addressed to M. Gibault, we were uncertain whether the sales by M. Forget were légal or not, and were fearful of taking false steps and of putting our- selves to useless expenses. This power of attorney, which has been sent us, has reassured us and opened our eyes; and we shall work now for the re-establishment of our mission as far as it shall be in our power.
This page contains an image.
Page 566
566 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS articles insérés dans la dite procuration en confirmant l'abandon que vous nous faites de la mission et des dépenses conjointement avec le missionnaire qu'il vous plaira envoyer pour la desservir. Nous ne pouvons trop faire d'éloge de Mr de St Pierre notre curé et missionnaire actuel. Il a toute la capacité, zèle et charité tant pour l'édification et instruction des fidèles que pour son devoir ecclésiastique. Nous désirons de pouvoir le conserver et vous supplions de vouloir bien l'agréer et le faire agréer par Monseigneur, pour qu'il lui plaise lui envoyer ses ordres pour notre mission. Si vous avez connoissance, Monsieur, de quelques papiers ou titres anciens relatifs à la mission et seigneurie des Cahos qui comprend quatre lieues en quarré, nous vous prions instament de vouloir bien nous les faire parvenir par voies sures afin de nous assurer une entière possession et crainte d'entreprise par la suite. . . . Nous avons l'honneur d'être avec un profond respect, Monsieur, Vos très humbles et très obéissants serviteurs les députés des habitans et marguilliers de la fabrique et mission de la Ste Famille des Cahos aux Illinois. [Translation.] We pray you, gentlemen, to persuade Monseigneur and the chapter to authorize and ratify anew the articles inserted in the said power of attorney by confirming the abandonnant which you made of the mission and of the expenses to us conjointly with the missionary whom it shall please you to send to serve it. We cannot too much praise M. de St. Pierre, our curi and present missionary. He has all capacity, zeal, and charity both for the teaching and instruction of the faithful and for his ecclesiastical duty. We desire to be able to keep him and pray you to be kind enough to agree to it and to influence Monseigneur to agree so that he is willing to send to him the commands for our mission. If you have knowledge, sir, of some papers or ancient titles relative to the mission and seigniory of Cahokia which contained four leagues square, we earnestly pray you to be so kind as to send them by a safe way in order to assure us a complete possession and [freedom from] fear of establishment .... We have the honor to be with a profound respect, sir, your very humble and very obedient servants, the Deputies of the Inhabitants and the Marguilliers of the Fabrique and Mission of the Holy Family of Cahokia in the Illinois.
Page 567
DE ST. PIERRE TO TARDIVEAU, SEPT., 1787 567 (Signé) Ch Ducharme, B. Duberger, F. [?] Saucier, At Girardin, L. Chatel, Bte Dumay. J. Bte Lacroix, H. Biron, Aux Cahos, ce 6 juin 1787. Je certifie la copie ci-dessus conforme à l'original conservé dans les archives du Séminaire de Québec. A Québec, 7 mai 1792. Gravé, Sup. du Séminaire. [Translation.] (Signed) Ch. Ducharme B. Duberger F. Saucier At. Girardin L. Chatel Bte. Dumay J. Bte. Lacroix H. Biron Cahokia, June 6, 1787. I certify the above copy conforms to the original preserved in the archives of the Seminary of Quebec. Quebec, May 7, 1792. Gravé, Sup. of the Seminary. Father de St. Pierre to Barthelemi Tardiveau, September, 1787. No date. [C. C. Pp., xlviii., 73.— A. L. S.] Monsieur, J'ai reçu la votre de quatre 7bre. Les habitans depuis l'arrivé de Monsieur Trotier faisoient plusieurs assemblées, ou ils ont faits leur decision, que vous apporte le meme porteur de mienne. Au sujet de la concession de quatre lieues quarrées, ils ont faits quelques doutes, principalement que vous en demandiés aussi le dixieme [Translation1— Attested.] Sir, I have receiv'd your's of the 4th 7ber. The inhabitants, since the arrival of Mr. Trotier have held several assemblies wherein they have pass'd their decisions which you shall receive by the bearer of mine. In regard to the concession of four leagues square they have form'd 1 This translation has been printed in the Amer. Caih. Hist. Researches, New Ser., ii., No. 3, p. •S1.
This page contains an image.
Page 568
568 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS pour la confirmation, mais je vous ai exposé le contraire, et au meme temps ils ne sont pas capables de vous le promettre sans moi, parceque le procureur fiscal en a à disposer conjointement avec leurs deputés selon la donation du Seminair de quebec, que vous avés lu. Surpassons cela, moi de ma part je vous prie par l'amour que vous avés pour les biens ecclesiastiques, de faire confirmer la concession, quoique que les anciennes possion [sic] et droits sont confirmés dans la paix entre les Americains, et Anglois, je ne trouve pas Superflues et inutile cette confirmation, ainsi celle dans ma charge, que vous obtien- drés plus aisement en disant, que j'etois au service de l'armee françoise auxiliaire pour les etats, comme vous sçavés de mes certificats que j'ai fait voir aussi a Monsieur Harmar. A votre retour vous vous aurés a saisir une belle habitation dans les quatre lieues pour vos soines. Au reste vous sçavés les troubles, que, sur moi, Monsieur Gibault, Messieurs les melieurs habitans des Kas, des Kaos, de la prairie du Rocher a mit,et mets tous les jours Mr.De la valiniere,comme il derange la bonne intelligence avec les pretres espagnols nos voisins; faites nous, [Translation. — Attested.] some doubts, especially that you asked also the tenth for the confirma- tion but I have exposed you the contrary, and at the same time they are not capable of promising it to you without me, because the treasury- Procurator has the disposal of it in conjunction with their Deputies agreeable to the donation from the Seminary of Quebec which you have read.1 Let that rest. on my own part I beg of you by the zeal you have for the ecclesiastick good, to get a confirmation of the concessions altho' the ancient possessions & rights have confirm'd it in the peace between the Americans & English, I do not find superfluous & needless that confirmation, as also that in my office which you will obtain more easily by saying that I was in the french auxiliary army for the states, as you know from my certificates which I have shewn likewise to Mr. Harmar. On your return you shall have your choice of a fine plantation within four leagues for your trouble. After all you know the troubles in which M. de la Valiniere throws Mr. Gibault, the best inhabitants of Kas, Kaos, prairie du Rocher, has thrown & throws every day, how he deranges the good intelligence 1 See letter of the inhabitants on the same subjcct, III. Hisl. Collections, i1., 595-
Page 569
DE ST. PIERRE TO TARDIVEAU, SEPTEMBER, 1787 569 je vous prie, le plaisir, d'exposer tout au vénérable Congress, a fin, qu'il voudroit obliger Monsieur Jean Carrol prefect apostolique, d'oter tout le pouvoir ecclésiastique si lui en a donne quelqu'un, et le faire sortir de notre pals, et confirmer Monsieur Gibault dans son ancienne charge de grand vicaire, qu'il a toujours exercé avec honeur, et satis- faction pour les confrères, ceux de voisinage, et tous les chrétiens. Aussi il est bien connu comme il s'a employé pour le Congress a tout temps, j'ai exposé le même a Monsieur Harmar en latine, sçachant, quil aie bien instruit en cette langue, et je ne doute pas, qu'il soutiendrai vos soines en ses lettres auprès du Congress. j'ai quelques comptes avec le défunt Carton, j'en ai chargé Monsieur, James James, qui recevraies tabatirs avec ces qui me reviens, portés vous bien bon voyage, j'ai l'honneur d'être avec respect Monsieur Votre très humble et très obéissant serviteur De saint pierre. Monsieur Tardiveau demeurant chez Monsieur Jean Bte Bauvait aux KasKaskias excusés la petite carte, parceque la manque du papier en générale [Translation.] with the Spanish priests our neighbors. Render us, I beseech you, the service of exposing the whole to the Honorable Congress, that they may please to oblige Mr. John Carrol Préfet Apostolick to take ail ecclesias- tical pow'rs from him if he has given him any, & drive him out of our country, & confirm Mr. Gibault in his former office of Grand Vicar, which he has always exercised with honor & satisfaction to his brethern, our neighbours, & ail the Christians. It is also well known how he has exerted himself for Congress at ail times. I have expos'd the same to Mr. Harmar in latin knowing that he is well learnt in that tongue and I don't doubt but he will support your endeavours in his letters to Congress. I have some accounts with late Mr. Carton &c. a good jour- ney. I have the honor to be with respect, Sir, your most humble & most obedient servant, Signed De Saint Pierre. to Mr. Tardiveau at Mr. Jean Baptiste Bauvais's Kaskaskia. I certify the above to be a true & literal translation from the original. New-york feby 7th, 1788. B : Tardiveau.
Page 570
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Father De St. Pierre to Barthelemi Tardiveau, September 17, 1787. [C. C. Pp., xlviii., 53. A. L. S ] Monsieur, Je vous envoie les lettres, dont vous croyés en avoir besoin; en autre la revocation des toutes les calomnies, que le Sieur bien connu a divulgé contre moi aprés avoir eté convençu de leur fausseté, qu'il a ecrit de la propre main, et faire affichée ici, a la Prairie du Rochér, et aux Kas. Au sujet de fautes, qu'il m'a objecté dans sa lettre ecrite aux habitans de cette paroisse il vous faut faire quelques eclaircissemens. j'ai marié Mr Reihl Catholique avec Madamoiss Camp, la Saint Joseph, il en a a redire, en cause, que la derniere etait protestante; mais etant d'un pays, ou les catholiques et Protestans demeurent ensemble, comme aussi dans quelques provinces de France, ou je demeurois, je conte, d'avoir plus de notice de pareille mariage par une sanction pragmatique les pretres catholiques allemands sont contrents, de mariage des per- sones de differans religions sans aucune difficulté, ainsi Louis XVII a ordonné dans la Diocese de Marseille, et autres l'an mil sept cent quatre [Translation.1 — Attested.] Sir, I send you the letters which you think you stand in need of; besides the recantation of all the calumnies which the well-known Gentleman has divulg'd against me, after confessing the falsehood of them, which he has wrote with his own hand and caus'd to be posted up here, at Prairie du rocher and at Kaskaskia.2 In regard to the faults which he has objected me in his letter written to the Inhabitants of this parish I must enter into some eclairecissments. I have married Mr. Reihl a Catholic with Miss Camp on St. Joseph's day. He finds fault with it, because the latter was a Protestant. But, as I am from a coun- try where Catholics and Protestants live together, as likewise in some Provinces of France where I liv'd, I think I have more knowledge of such marriages. By a Pragmatic Sanction, "the Dutch" Catholick Priests are oblig'd to marry persons of different religions without any difficulty. Lewis the i6th has ordain'd it so in the Diocése of Marseilles and others in the year 1780. Concerning the American States, you know This translation has been printed in Amer. Cath. Hist. Researches. New Ser.. ii., No. 3, p. 225. 2 Printed ante, p. 548.
Page 571
DE ST. PIERRE TO TARDIVEAU, SEPTEMBER 17, 1787 571 vingt. Concernant les pays américains vous savés bien, qu'on n'en fait point des difficultés a contraire le prefect apostolique même a marié sa nièce a un protestant, il faisoit une grande difficulté de les avoir marié le Saint Joseph sans faire mention dans le registre de dis- pense de temps prohibé c'est a dire du Carême, mais observés si vous plait, la coutume de ce pays, et de plusieurs autres, de marier cette fete la. ou la coutume tiens la place de loix, il n'y a besoin de dispense, ni d'en faire mention dans le registre. Au reste après son arrivé j'ai continué les fonctions curiales a Sainte Gennevieve paroisse espagnole jusque la réparation de la maison destinée pour moi ici était faite ou j'ai donné dispense de parentée a Monsieur Pierre Aubichon, et sa cousine Daumur. il pretens, que sa venue m'avoit oté de pouvoir, de les dispenser, soupposons, que le Prefect apostolique lui aie donné le pouvoir, de dispenser, ce ne le peut pas étendre a l'autre rive, ou il a jamais eu le moindre pouvoir, le mariage, que j'ai fait ici, etoit aussi la saint Joseph, et d'une fille, dont le Pere moribund, et mort le lende- main m'avoit prié, pour avoir la consolation de savoir mariée sa fille avant sa morte. Si ce Sieur avoit été reçu comme grand Vicaire, c'etoit toujours un cas d'impossibilité de recourrir a lui [Translation — Attested.] full well that it makes no difficulty there; on the contrary the Apostolick Préfet himself has married his nièce to a Protestant. He made a great bustle because I married them on St. Joseph's day without making in the register mention of a dispensation from prohibited time, Vizt. the Lent. But please to observe the custom of this country and several others of marrying on that Holyday. Where custom supplies the place of laws, there is no need of dispensation nor of mentioning it in the regis- ter. Howbeit, after his arrivai I have continued the functions of Parson at Ste. Geneviève a Spanish parish, untill the house which was destin'd for me here was repair'd, where I have given dispensation of relationship to Mr. Pierre Daubichon and his cousin Miss Daumur. He prétends that his coming had taken from me the pow'r of dispensing, that can not extend to the other shore where he has never had the least pow'r. The marriage which I have celebrated here was also on St. Joseph's day, and that was of a girl whose dying father expir'd the next day and had begg'd of me that he might have the consolation of seeing his Daughter married before his Death. Had that Gentleman been
This page contains an image.
Page 572
573 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS La reponse, que Messieurs les habitans, lui ont envoyeé, vous fait suffisament connaitre les plaintes. mais observés, qu'il ait ecrits une lettre ici, ou il traite Monseigneur L'Eveque, et Monsieur Mongol- fier grand Vicaire de quebec pour ses plus grands inimis, c'est pourquoi ils y ont dit, qu'on ait ecrit a son sujet a ces Messieurs, et que meme leur reponse favorable pour lui les ne determinera peutetre, de le recevoir comme grand Vicaire. on n'en vouloit pas par cela refuser Monsieur Carrol comme legitime Superieur ecclesiastique. les habitans scavent aussi bien que le R. Prefect apostolique ne puisse pas employer un pretre suspendu de son Eveque, sans erre absolu auparavant et comme la plus part des Canadiens, qui sont venu ici l'annee passee, nous ont assuré quil a eté suspendu en Canada, nous voudrons savoir, si'il est absolu, ou non avant de le recevoir malgré que sa lettre, qu'il pretend, d'avoir de Rdssme [ ?] prefect apostolique ne sont pas en bon ordre etant melee de l'anglais, et latin et en plusieurs endroits ratés, et interlinées. [Translation. — Attested.] receiv'd as Grand Vicar, still it was a case of impossibility to have re- course to him. The answer which the Inhabitants have made him gives you suffi- ciently to know the complaints. But observe that he has wrote here a letter wherein he represents His Lordship the Bishop and Mr. Mongol- fier Grand Vicar of Quebec as his greatest enemies, it is for that reason they have told him that they have wrote on his accompt to those Gentle- men, and that even their favorable answer in his behalf will not perhaps determine them to receive him as Grand Vicar. They don't mean by that to refuse Mr. Carrol as lawful ecclesiastical Superior. The Inhab- itants know likewise very well that the Worshipful Apostolic Préfect can not employ a priest Suspended by his Bishop before he be previously absolved, and as the greater part of the Canadians who came here last year, have affirm'd to us that he has been suspended in Canada, we wou'd wish to know whether he has been absolv'd or not before we receive him altho' his letters which he pretends to have from the Wor- shipful Apostolic Prefect be not in good order being intermix'd with English and Latin, and in several places dash'd and interlined. If the bearer of this does not set off before the Court have drawn up the Petition setting forth the most grievous complaints against him you shall have it subjoin'd to these.
Page 573
DE ST. PIERRE TO TARDIVEAU, SEPTEMBER 17, 1787 573 Si le porteur de présent ne partera pas avant, que la cour aura fait la requette détaillant les plaintes les plus grieffes contre lui, vous Taures jointe a celle ci. bon voyage, mes respects a Monsieur Le colonel, et Mr Capatain Ziegler. peut erre j'aurai l'honneur de vous voir au Poste Vincennes, si vous ne quitteras pas cet endroit, avant le mi octobre, j'ai l'honneur d'être avec respect le plus profond Monsieur Votre très humble, et obéissant serviteur De Saint pierre. Au Kaos le 17 7bre 1787. (Postscript) le calomniateur a eu la malice, de dire a plusieurs dans le confessional même, au prone et dernièrement a Monsieur Trotier, que je ne suis pas prêtre après qu'il a examiné avec le Révérend Père Bernard, et le Curé de Sainte Gennevieve mes papiés, et de cette calomnie, dont il a jamais dit l'auteur, faite la revocation cy inclusé. Mr. le Colonel les a vu dernièrement et trouvé en très bon ordre A Monsieur Monsieur Tardiveau demeurant chez Monsieur Jean Bte. Beauvait aux Kaskaskias. [Translation. — Attested.] A good journey, my respects to the Colonel and Captain Zeagler. Perhaps I shall have the honor to see you at Poste Vincennes if you don't leave that place before the middle of October. I have the honor to be with the most profound respect Sir, Your most humble and obedient Servant Signed De St. Pierre. Kaos i7th. 7ber 1787. Postscript The Calumniator has had the malice to tell several persons even in the confession-box, from the pulpit, and lately to Mr. Trotier that I am not a Priest, after he has examin'd my papers with the Révérend father Bernard and the Parson of Ste. Geneviève, and of that calumny, of which he has never nam'd the author, the inclos'd recantation has been. The Colonel has seen them lately and found them in very good order. To Mr. Tardiveau at Mr. Jean Bte. Beauvais's Kaskaskia. I certify the above to be a true and literal translation from the original. New-york feby. the 7th 1788. B: Tardiveau
This page contains an image.
Page 574
574 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Inhabitants of Kaskaskia Accuse Father de la Valinière September ai, 1787. [C. C. Pp., xlviii. 201. — A. D. S.] Nous soussignés certifions les faits suivants être sincères et vérita- bles, savoir Que Mr. De la Valinière curé de cette parroisse a voulu exiger que les Nègres qui voulaient se marier fûssent publiés comme le sont les blancs à la messe parroissiale, et qu'ils payassent le même prix pour avoir dispenses. Que Mr. Janis prémier Capitaine de milice ayant voulû marier un de ses nègres sans se soumettre à ces formalités et extortions sans éxemple ledit Sieur curé a menacé de l'excommunicer, et a publique- ment prêché contre lui d'une manière également injurieuse et indécente, en l'indiquant du geste et par ses expressions, disant qu'il était excom- muniée Que ledit Sieur de la Valinière a déclaré publiquement que Mr. de St. Pierre cidevant curé de cette parroisse et actuellement de celle des Cahokias n'était pas prêtre. Qu'ayant été Sévèrement répri- mandé de cette calomnie par le curé de St. Louis il se rétracta pub- [Translatùm. — Attested.1] We the underwritten certify the following facts to be Sincère & true, Viz.: That Mr. De la Valinière, Parson of this parish, has insisted that Negroes who intended to marry shou'd be publish'd in the same man- ner as the Whites are at the Parochial Mass, & that they shou'd pay the same price for licences. That Mr. Janis, first Captain of the militia, intending to marry one of his Negromen without submitting to thèse unexampled forms & extortions, said Mr. De la Valinière threaten'd to excommunicate him, & preach'd openly against him in a manner equally indécent & in- jurious, indicating him by his words & gestures, & saying that he was excommunicated. That Mr. de la Valinière has publickly declar'd that Mr. De S' Pierre, formerly Parson of this parish & now of that of Cahokia, was not a Priest. That, having been severly reprimanded for this calumny 1 This translation has been printed in Amer. Calh. Uisl. Rescarchts, New Ser., u., No. 3, p. 118.
Page 575
INHABITANTS ACCUSE VALINIERE, SEPT, ai, 1787 575 liquement et par écrit; et que néanmoins il a depuis réitéré, et réitère encore cette scandaleuse assertion. Qu'il a voulu interdire aux maris la liberté de remplir les devoirs conjugaux les Dimanches et fêtes, les jours maigres, et pendant le carême. Qu'il a obligé le Sieur Corset Chantre de la parroisse à faire amende honorable dans l'église la torche à la main, pour avoir ondoyé l'enfant de Mr. Vital Bauvais; et a menacé celui-ci de l'excommunicer pour l'avoir souffert. Qu'il a fréquement insulté dans la chaire des personnes estimables des deux sexes, en les désignant de manière à ne pas s'y méprendre. Qu'il a voulu exiger la dixme du travail que les maîtres permettent, suivant l'usage, à leurs nègres de faire le Dimanche ou à certaines heures d'autres jours pour leur profit particulier. Qu'il a incité des citoyens à faire revivre d'anciens procès, et à renouveller des prétentions éteintes par le tems. Qu'il y a fait l'office d'Avocat, de Solliciteur, et de Rapporteur. Qu'il a traité les principaux habitants de torys, de rebelles, de [Translation. — Attested.] by the Parson of St. Louis, he recanted publickly & by wnting and that, nevertheless, he has, since, renew'd, & continues still to support that scandalous assertion. That he has endeavour'd to prohibit to married people the fulfilling of the matrimonial duties on Sundays & Holy days, on ail fast days & during the Lent. That he has oblig'd Mr. Corset, Clerk of the parish, to make public penance in the church with a burning taper in his hand, for having given the water of baptism to a child of Mr. Vital Bauvais, & threaten'd this last gentleman with excommunication for having suffer'd it. That he has frequently insulted from the pulpit very respectable persons of both sexes, indicating them so as not to be mistaken. That he has attempted to extort the Tythe upon the labour which Masters allow their Slaves, according to ancient custom, on Sundays & stated hours of other days for their own private profit. That he has incited citizens to renew Superannuated lawsuits, & revive différences extinct by time. That he has therein acted the parts of Attomey, Soliciter & States-Attomey.
Page 576
576 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS trâitres à l'Etat, et Séditieux, parcequ'ils souffraient avec peine la tyrannie qu'il voulait éxercer sur eux. Qu'il a reproché en chaire aux habitants, après le départ du Colonel Harmar, de ce qu'ils étaient allé accompagner ces gens qui leur avaient fait tant de mal. Que le nommé aimé déclare que ledit Sr de la Valinière lui a dit qu'il était bien aise de voir que le Colonel Harmar ne s'était associé en ce pays qu'avec les coquins et mauvais Sujets; ce qui comprend, à l'exception de trois ou quatre personnes chères à Mr de la Valinière par une conformité de principes, tout le reste du peuple dont le Colonel Harmar a reconnû la docilité et Soumission au Congrès, en même leurs qu'il a daigné leur donner des preuves non équivoques de sa sensibilité pour leur attachement à sa personne. Qu'il a dit qu'il n'y avait ici que trois ou quatre personnes qui pourraient faire le bonheur du pays, et que les habitants s'y refusaient; lesquelles trois ou quatre personnes si respectées de Mr de la Valinière sont odieuses au peuple, ne cherchent qu'à le tenir dans l'esclavage, et ont calomnié le caractère de la nation. [Translation. — Attested.] That he has call'd the principal inhabitants Tories, Rebels, Traitors to the state and Seditious; because they bore impatiently the tyranny which he wanted to exercise over them. That, after Col. Harmar's departure, he upbraided the Inhabitants from the Pulpit, for having accompanied on their return those people who had done them so much harm. That the Sieur Aimé declares that said M. De la Valinière told him that he was happy to see that Col. Harmar had associated in this country with none but the rascals & good-for-nothing fellows; which includes (with an exception of three or four persons dear to Mr. De la Valinière from a conformity of principles) all the rest of the people whose docility & Submission to Congress Col. Harmar has acknowleg'd at the same time that he was pleas'd to give them unequivocal proofs of his Sensi- bility to their attachment to his person.1 That he has repeatedly said that there was here three or four per- sons only who might render the country happy, & that the Inhabitants were averse to it: which three or four persons so much respected by M. 1 Compare ante, p. 426.
Page 577
INHABITANTS ACCUSE VALINIERE, SEPT. ai, 1787 577 Qu'il a déclaré dans la chaire qu'il était en son pouvoir de faire beaucoup de mal aux habitants, ayant le don des deux langues; et qu'il a toujours cherché à les intimider en les menaçant d'écrire au Congrès, et leur insinuant qu'il y" avait beaucoup de pouvoir. Que ledit Sieur de la Valinière avait accoutumé de prêcher avec tant d'emportement et si peu de décence contre les principaux habitants que plusieurs se sont vûs forcés à renoncer à aller à l'église. Que ledit Sieur, desservant tour-à-tour l'église de cette parroisse et celle de la prairie du Rocher qui est éloignée de cinq lieues, un Dimanche qu'il était allé à cette dernière, le Sr François Corset, Chantre, sonna la cloche et, comme il a toujours ètè d'usage fit la prière à laquelle assistèrent les habitants, et entr'autres ceux que la crainte d'être insultés avait cidevant obligés à s'absenter de l'église. Que le Dimanche suivant Mon dit Sieur de la Valinière prêcha avec sa fureur ordinaire contre ceux qui avaient assistés à la prière; dit qu'ils étaient excommunicés, et leur deffendit d'entrer dans l'église en son [Translation. —Attested.] De la Valinière are odious to the people, are perpetually endeavoring to keep them in bondage, and have calumniated the character of the nation. That he has declar'd from the pulpit that he has it in his pow'r to do the Inhabitants much harm, as he had the advantage of speaking both languages: and that he has always strove to intimidate them by threatening to write to Congress & intimating that he had much in- fluence there. That said M. De la Valinière was us'd to preach with so much fury & so little decency against all the principal Inhabitants that many have been oblig'd to decline going to church. That said M. De la Valinière performs the divine Service alternately in this parish & that of Prairie du rocher distant five leagues; & that, he having gone one Sunday to the latter, Mr. francis Corset, Clerk of the church, rung the bell at the usual hour, and as it has always been practis'd said prayers to which were present the Inhabitants, & among others those who, from fear of being insulted, had hitherto absented themselves from church. That the Sunday following M. De la Valinere preach'd with his accustom'd fury against those who had assisted to prayers, Said they were excommunicated, & forbid them to enter the
Page 578
578 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS absence. Que peu de tems après, le même chose étant arrivée, il ferma en dedans la porte de l'église le Dimanche suivant avant de partir pour la Prairie du rocher. Qu'il a intrigué pour se faire nommer interprète de la Cour, et que n'y ayant pas réussi, il a prophané la chaire par des reproches indécents aux habitants de l'avoir refusé. Qu'il a refusé d'écouter en confession et administrer les Sacrements à plusieurs personnes, sans autre motif sinon qu'il les haïssait; et non seulement a dénié les Secours de l'église à ces personnes, mais à leurs enfants dont tout le crime était d'avoir pour parents des hommes qui ne pouvaient s'empêcher de désapprouver les fureurs de Mr de la Valinière. Que le Sr Bienvenû ayant acheté quarante minots de froment de semence qui avait déjà payé la dixme au Curé, et ayant eû la simplicité d'aller lui demander s'il la devait encore, Mondit Sieur de la Valinière non seulement lui dit qu'il la devait et l'obligea de la payer une seconde fois; mais encore, afin d'établir cette infâme doctrine dans le village, il prêcha sur ce sujet le Dimanche suivant, en apostrophant indécemment [Translation. — Attesled.] church in his absence. That sometime after, the same thing having happen'd he bolted the church-door inside the next Sunday before he set off for Prairie du rocher. That he has canvass'd to get himself appointed interpréter for the Court, & not Succeeding has prophan'd the pulpit by indécent re- proaches to the Inhabitants for refusing him. That he has denied confession & the Sacrament to Several persons, for no other reason but that he hated them; & not only has refus'd those persons the Spiritual Succours of the Church, but also totheir children whose only crime was to be the offspring of men who cou'd not help censuring M. De la Valiniere's furious temper That Mr. Bienvenu having purchas'd forty Bushels of Seed wheat for which the Tythe had already been paid to the Parson & being simple enough to go & ask him if he must pay it again, Mr. De la Valin- ière not only said he must, & oblig'd him to pay it a second time; but, in order to establish that iniquitous doctrine in the village, he preach'd on that subject the following Sunday, indecently calling Mr. Bienvenu a fool & a rascal who was either ignorant of or wanted to robb him of his due.
Page 579
INHABITANTS ACCUSE VALINIERE, SEPT, ai, 1787 579 le Sr Bienvenu avec les épithétes de Bête et coquin qui avait ignoré ou cherché à lui faire perdre son droit. Qu'un grand nombre des habitants ayans coûttume de se rassembler pendant les trois jours de Carnaval dans la maison de la Dame Veuve Brazeau qui y réunissait tous les ans sa nombreuse famille pour s'y réjouir ensemble, Mondit Sieur de la Valinière prêcha qu'ils s'assem- blaient pour parler d'affaires d'état; qu'il en instruirait le Congrès; qu'ils devaient craindre d'être anéantés; qu'il savait parler les deux langues, et les ferait périr. Que Mr Janis ayant voulu faire dire des messes, pour lesquelles on a toujours payé quarante sous en denrées du pays, Bons du Roi d'Espagne, ou pelleterie, Mondit Sieur de la Valinière a voulu exiger quarante sous en argent sonnant ou quatre francs en pelleterie, ou cent sous en Bons. Qu'il a voulu lui persuader de faire allumer pendant la Messe un grand nombre de chandelles, disant que chacune d'elles valait et avait autant de mérite qu'une messe. Cette assertion sacrilège était dictée par le plus vil interêe, parceque les chandelles, éteintes aussitôt la messe ditte, restent au Curé Suivant l'usage. Que Mondit Sieur de la Valinière ne monte presque jamais en chaire pour y annoncer la parole de Dieu; mais pour invectiver contre ses Parroissiens. [Translation. — Attested.] That, it being customary for a great number of the inhabitants to meet together on the three last days of Carnival in the house of Mistress Brazeau, who was us'd once every year to convene her numerous family in order to be merry together, M. De la Valinière preached that they assembled to talk of State-business; that he wou'd inform Congress of it; that they must fear being annihilated; that he had the gift of both languages & wou'd destroy them. That Mr. Janis having employ'd him to say Mass, the price of which has always been two livres in produce, Spanish Bons or Peltry, M. De la Valinière insisted upon two livres in Specie, four in peltry, or five in Bons, that he wanted to persuade him to have a great many candies burning during Mass, Saying that each candie was as meritorious as a Mass. This Sacrilegious assertion was dictated by the vilest interest, be- cause agreeable to custom the candies, after Mass, belong to the Parson. That M. De la Valinière never hardly ascends the pulpit to preach the word of God; but only to insuit his parishioners.
Page 580
5&> ILLINOIS HISTORIC\L COLLECTIONS Qu'il a encore tout récemment dit à Mr Barbeau Lieutenant de comté pour ce district et habitant de la Prairie du rocher qu'il inter- dirait l'église de cette parroisse, parceque Mr de St. Pierre y a dit la Messe en passant. En conséquence de tous ces faits et d'un grand nombre d'autres que nous passons sous silence, les Sousignés sont d'avis que Mr de la Valinière est un perturbateur de repos public; un homme dangereux par la pétulance de son caractère, par le despotisme théocratique avec lequel il voudrait nous gouverner, par la violence de ses passions, par les maximes qu'il cherche à établir, et que nous croyons contraires aux constitutions Américaines, à la saine raison, et aux bonnes moeurs. Délibéré aux Kaskaskias le 21e jour de 7bre 1787. Nous ajouterons seulement que ledit Sieur de la Valinière a refusé d'aller baptizer la négresse du Sieur Bienvenu laquelle était à l'article de la mort, et à un garçon sauvage demeurant chez Mr Janis. Vital Bauvais Janis Thtmote de Monbreun Lachanse L Brazaux J. S. G. Bauvais [Translation. — Attested.] That he has latterly said to Mr. Barbeau, County-Lieutenant of this District & inhabitant of Prairie du rocher, that he wou'd intedict the church of that parish, because Mr. De St Pierre Said Mass there as he went by. In conséquence of ail thèse facts & a great number of others which we pass over in Silence, the Underwritten are of opinion that M. De la Valinière is a perturbator of the public peace, a dangerous man by the fury of his disposition, the theo'cratick despotism with which he wants to govern us, the violence of his passions, & the maxims which he strives to establish & which we judge contrary to the American Constitution, to Sound reason & good morals. Deliberated at Kaskaskia the 2ist day of 7ber 1787. We shall only add that Mr. De la Valinière has refus'd to go & baptize Mr. Bienvenu's Negro-wench who was on the point of death, as also an Indian boy living at Mr. Janis's. Signed, Vital Bauvais, La chanse, Janis, L Brazeau Thtmoté de Monbreun, J. S. G. Bauvais. I certify the above to be a true & literal translation from the original. New-york, feby 8th 1788. B. Tardiveau
Page 581
CARROLL TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, MAY 5, 1788 581 Reverend John Carroll to the Bishop of Quebec, May 5, 1788. [Archiepiscopal Archives, Quebec — A. L. S.] Monseigneur, La nécessité dans laquelle je me trouve de demander à V. Grandeur des éclaircissemens sur une matière assez délicate me procure en même tems l'honneur de témoigner à elle la vénération dont je suis pénétré pour son caractère et ses vertus épiscopales. Encouragé par les attestations favorables dont Mr Huet de la Vali- nière étoit muni de la part de ses supérieurs ecclésiastiques du Canada, j'ai reçu très volontiers ses offres pour se rendre aux Illinois et l'y ai nommé mon Vicaire général. Depuis son départ, j'ai reçu des lettres écrites du poste St Vincent, écrites par un autre prêtre qui s'appelle Gibeau, et qui m'annonce qu'il a été lui-même Vicaire Général des Evêques de Québec dans ce pays depuis dix-neuf ans. Voilà, Monseig- neur, sur quoi je voudrois être instruit, & que j'ose demander des éclair- cissemens à V. Grandeur; surtout depuis que des rapports me sont [Translation.1] Monseigneur: The necessity, in which I find myself, of asking your Lordship for light on a rather delicate matter affords me at the same time an oppor- tunity to assure you of the esteem I entertain for your character and episcopal virtues. Encouraged by the favorable recommendations with which M. Huet de la Valinière was supplied by his ecclesiastical superiors in Canada, I very willingly accepted his offer to go to the Illinois and I have named him my vicar general there. Since he left, I have received letters written at Post Vincennes by another priest named Gibault, who tells me that for nineteen years he himself has been in that section vicar general of the bishops of Quebec. It is about this, Monseigneur, that I should like to be instructed, and upon which I dare to ask your Lord- ship to throw some light; especially since reports have reached me con- 1 Ail the letters exchanged between Reverend John Carroll, Bishop of Baltimore, and the Bishop of Quebec, printed in this volume, have been published in translation by Abbé L. Lindsay in the Records of the American Cotholk Historical Society of Philadclphia, xvùi., 2, p. 155 et seq. This first letter was also printed in translation by Shea, in his Life of Archbishep Carroll, 406.
Page 582
58a ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS parvenus touchant Monsr Gibeau très désavantageux par rapporta sa conduite. J'ai appris, il y a déjà quelque tems, que V. Grandeur trouvoit mal à moi de m'ingérer dans le gouvernement ecclésiastique du pays des Illinois. Je l'ai fait parce que je l'ai cru compris dans ma jurisdiction, et que je n'avois pas aucune idée que V. Grandeur eut étendu jusqu'à ces contrées ses soins pastorales. Aucun motif d'ambition ne m'y a porté; et si elle se propose de pourvoir à leurs besoins spirituels, elle me tirera d'un très grand embarras, et déchargera ma conscience d'un fardeau qui lui pèse extrêmement. En ce cas, ma seule inquiétude seroit que les Etats Unis ne voudroient pas peut-être souffrir l'exercice du pouvoir même spirituel d'un sujet Britannique. J'ai l'honneur d'être avec le dévouement le plus respectueux, de V. G., Monseigneur, le très humble et très obéissant serviteur, J. Carroll, Supérieur ecclésiastique dans les Etats Unis. Baltimore, ce 5 de mai 1788. Des lettres envoyées par la voye de la Nouvelle York m'arriveront en sûreté. [Translation.] cerning M. Gibault's conduct that are very unfavorable to him. I learned, some time ago, that your Lordship was dissatisfied with me because I meddled in the ecclesiastical government of the Illinois. I did so because I believed it was included in my jurisdiction, and I had no idea that your Lordship extended his pastoral care to those régions. No motive of ambition actuated me; and if you propose to provide for the spiritual needs there, you will save me from great embarrassment and relieve my conscience of a burden which weighs very heavily upon it. In such an event, my only anxiety would be that the United States would not allow the exercise of power, even of a spiritual nature, to a subject of Great Britain. I have the honor to be, with the most respectful dévotion, your Lordship's very humble and very obedient servant, J. Carroll, Ecclesiastical Superior of the United States. Baltimore, May 5, 1788. Letters sent me by way of New York will reach me safely.
Page 583
GIBAULT TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, MAY 22, 1788 583 FATHER GIBAULT TO THE BISHOP OF QtTEBEC, May 22, 1788.1 [Archiépiscopal Arehives, Quebec — A. L. S.] Monseigneur, Il paroit par votre silence que vous avez oublié jusqu'à une réponse sur des articles où je devois nécessairement être embarrassé et dont L'éclaircissement de votre part ne pouvoit souffrir un si long délai. L'état malheureux où vous me supposiez il y a deux ou trois ans auroit dû vous donner assez de compassion pour ne pas oublier entièrement un prêtre qui n'a cessez un seul moment de la vie de sacrifier non seule- ment ses aises et son repos, mais d'exposer sa propre vie à la fureur des Barbares pour remplir son ministère dans les mêmes vues et avec les mêmes intentions qu'il en avoit fait le sacrifice entre les mains de son Evêque. Je n'aurois cependant pas dû m'attendre à cette oublie, puisque j'ay oté sans peine ce qui pouvoit donner des soupçons, quoiqu'- injuste, sur ma façon de vivre. Il y a plus d'un an que non seulement je n'ay point de boisson chez moy mais je n'en bois pas même un coup, n'y vin n'y eau de vie, je n'y pense point, ce n'est point un voeux, ce [Translation.] Monseigneur: It seems by your silence that you have forgotten even to send an answer to some matters which necessarily cause me some embarrass- ment, and concerning which an explanation from you should not be so long delayed. The wretched condition, in which, some two or three years ago, you thought me to be, ought to have given you enough com- passion not to forget entirely a priest who has not ceased for a single moment of his life to sacrifice not only his pleasures and rest but also to expose his own life to the fury of the barbarians, in order to fulfill his ministry with the same views and with the same intentions with which he made the sacrifice between the hands of his bishop. There was no reason that I should expect this neglect, since I have removed without difficulty whatever might have given cause for suspicion, however unjust, of my manner of living. It has been more than a year since I have had no liquor at my house, and I do not even drink a swallow now 1 This was printed by the editor in the Amer. Hist. Review, XIV., No. 3, p. 556.
Page 584
584 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS n'est point non plus un sacrifice, car quoiqu'on ait pu vous rapporter, je n'ay jamais eu d'attache à aucune boisson, qu'une certaine mode de boire un coup d'eau de vie en voyageur, ny pensant seulement pas quand je n'en avois pas. Il falloit donc que ceux qui vous ont rapporté des abominations aussi affreuses que celles dont vous me parlé dans votre dernière lettre ayent été poussé par le père du mensonge, ou que je les eusse repris trop fortement sur leurs vices et mauvaise couduite, car je ne vois point d'autres causes de leur calomnie. Il seroit inutile de vous répéter ce que je vous ay dit si au long dans ma dernière, il vaudroit bien mieux que je fusse sous vos yeux que d'être si éloigné. Je vous prie donc en conséquence de considérer que voila vingt ans passé que je dessers ces contrées, sans arrets, sans pour ainsi dire sans demeure fixe, presque toujours en voyage, dans toutes les saisons de l'année, toujours exposé à être massacré par les Barbares comme une infinité de personnes l'ont été dans les mêmes routes, et même dernière- ment le Sr Paul Desruisseaux que vous devez avoir connu à Québec tué et le Sr Bonvouloir blessé si près de moy que j'étois tout couvert de [Translation.] and then, either of wine or of brandy. I think no longer about it. It is not a vow, nor is it a sacrifice; for, whatever may have been related to you, I never had any attachment for any kind of drink, and never did more than drink a swallow of brandy, as a traveler will, not even think- ing about it when I had none. It must be that those who told you abominations so atrocious as those you mention in your last letter were incited by the father of lies, or it must be that I reproved them too strongly concerning their vices and bad conduct, for I do not see any other cause for their calumny. It would be useless to repeat what I said to you with such detail in my last letter. It would be much better for me to be under your very eyes than so far away. I beg you, there- fore, to consider that for the last twenty years I have been continuously serving in these regions without having a fixed place of abode so to speak, that I have been almost always on the road, in all seasons of the year, always running the risk of being massacred by the barbarians, as a number of persons have been on these same roads. Even recently M. Paul Desruisseaux, whom you must have known at Quebec, was killed, and M. Bonvouloir was wounded so near to me that I was all covered
Page 585
GIBAULT TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, MAY 22, 1788 585 leur sang; mon age de cinquante un ans accompli, le besoin que j'ay d'être plus recueilli, après tant de dissipations qu'entreinent presqu'- inévitablement tant de voyages et de si longs cours, la répugnance que j'ay à servir sous un autre évêque soit en Espagne ou en Amérique répu- blicaine, et mille autres raisons, tout cela, dis-je, bien considéré, j'espère de votre bonté mon rapel, que je vous demande instament et à genoux et je crois suivre en cela la volonté de Dieu qui me l'inspire pour mon salut. Et pour l'opposition ou la crainte que j'aye été ou que je fusse porté pour le République américaine, vous n'avez qu'à relire ma première lettre ou je vous rends compte de notre prise et ma dernière ou je vous envoyé un certificat de ma conduite au poste Vincennes, dans la prise duquel on disoit que j'avois trempé, et vous verrez que non seulement je ne me suis mêlé de rien, mais au contraire j'ay toujours regretté et regrette encore tous les jours les douceurs du Gouvernement Brittannique. Pour les secours spirituels des peuples de ces pays je peux vous assurer qu'ils n'en manqueront encore moins qu'autrefois puisqu'ils ont un prêtre aux Kaskaskias, un autre aux Kahokias et [Translation.] with their blood. My age of more than fifty-one years, the need I have of being better sheltered, after so many hardships which inevitably accompany so many journeys and long trips, the repugnance I have in serving another bishop either in Spain or in republican America, and a thousand other reasons, all these, I say, well considered, lead me to ex- pect from your generosity my recall, which I ask of you at once and on my knees, and in this I believe I am following the will of God who in- spires me for my own salvation. And as for opposition to me because of the fear that I may have been or was active for the American Republic, you have only to reread my first letter in which I give you an account of our capture, and my last letter in which I sent you a certificate of my conduct at Post Vincennes, in the capture of which they said I had taken a hand; and you will see that not only did I not meddle with anything, but on the contrary I have always regretted and do regret every day the loss of the mildness of British rule. As for the spiritual succor of the people in these regions, I can assure you that they will lack less than here- tofore, for they have a priest at Kaskaskia, another one at Cahokia, and
Page 586
586 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS qu'ils ne seroient pas longtems sans en avoir un au poste de Vincennes si j'en sortois, étant le poste favori du Congrès. Ainsi, Monseigneur, tout conspire à me faire espérer mon rapel et le plutot sera le meilleur, car le tems qui sépare l'effet des désirs est toujours très long. Je l'espère ardemment et je sacrifieray le reste de mes jours à vous en témoigner ma reconnaissance. C'est dans cette espérance que j'ay l'honneur d'être, Monseigneur, De Votre Grandeur, Le très humble, très obéissant et très soumis serviteur, P. Gibault, Prêtre. Au poste Vincennes Le 22e may 1788. [Translation.] they would not be long without one at Post Vinncenes were I to leave, since it is the post favored by Congress. Thus, Monseigneur, all conspires to make me hope for my recall, and the sooner the better, for the time which separates the fulfillment from the desire is always long. I earnestly hope for it, and I shall sacrifice the rest of my days in showing you my gratitude for it. It is with this hope that I have the honor to be, Monseigneur, your Lord- ship's, Very humble, very obedient, and very submissive servant, P. Gibault, Priest. At Post Vincennes, May 22, 1788. The Bishop of Quebec to Right Reverend John Carroll, October 3, 1788. [Archiepiscopal Archives, Quebec — Copy.] Quebec, 6 Octobre 1788. A Monsieur J. Carroll, Préfet Apostolique, à Batlimore. Monsieur, Votre lettre du 5 mai m'ayant été remise il y a peu de temps, je me [Translation.] Quebec, October 6, 1788. M. J. Carroll, Prefect Apostolic at Baltimore. Sir: Your letter of May 5, having only lately been handed to me, I make
Page 587
BISHOP OF QUEBEC TO MR. CARROLL, OCT. 3, 1788 587 mets en devoir d'y répondre et de vous satisfaire sur les objets qu'elle renferme. Son Eminence Monseigneur le Cardinal Antonelli ayant appris que Mr De la Valinière et Mr l'abbé St Pierre étoient envoyés aux Illinois avec des pouvoirs de votre part, écrivit à Mr de Villars, Vicaire général de l'Evêque de Québec à Paris, pour lui demander là-dessus des é- claircissemens, disant que la S. Congrégation de la Propagande étoit dans la plus grande obscurité par rapport à ce fait. Sur le rapport de Mr de Villars, Monseigneur Desgly, mon prédécesseur défunt, écrivit l'année dernière en ces termes: "Par le traite de paix de 1783, les terres sises au sud du fleuve St Laurent depuis le 45e degré de latitude, ayant été cédées aux Angloéaméricains, et les Illinois se trouvant dans cette partie, l'Evêque de Québec n'y a envoyé aucun missionnaire permanent depuis cette époque; il est même à présumer que le gouvernement le trouveroit mauvais, de sorte qu'on laissera les choses où elles en sont jusqu'à nouvel ordre. Il paroit qu'en effet De la Valinière et Mr De St Pierre ont été députés dans le pays des Illinois par le Préfet Apos- tolique de la Nouvelle-Angleterre. J'ignore l'étendue de leurs pouvoirs [Translation.] it my duty to reply to it and to satisfy you about the subjects of which it treats. His Eminence Cardinal Antonelli, having learned that M. De la Valinière and the Abbé de St. Pierre had been sent to the Illinois with faculties from you, wrote to M. de Villars, vicar gênerai at Paris of the bishop of Québec, to ask him for information thereon, saying that the Sacred Congrégation of Propaganda was utterly in the dark in rela- tion to this fact. Upon the report of M. de Villars, Bishop Desgly, my deceased predecessor, wrote last year in thèse terms: "By the treaty of peace of 1783, the country situated south of the St. Lawrence river from the 4Sth degree of latitude having been ceded to the Anglo-Ameri- cans, and the Illinois being within this portion, the Bishop of Québec has not sent any permanent missionary there since that time; it is even presumable that the government would take it in bad part if he did so. Hence things will be left as they are until a new order is established. It appears, indeed, that M. de la Valinière and M. de St. Pierre were appointed to the Illinois région by the prefect apostolic of New Eng-
Page 588
588 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS dont ils ne me rendent aucun compte, et du reste je suis disposé à ne les pas inquiéter là-dessus &c." Voilà, Monsieur, quels étoient les sentimens de mon prédécesseur au sujet de ces missions. Il est vrai qu'elles sont incontestablement du diocèse de Québec suivant nos titres primordiaux, et même que le Séminaire de Québec a été longtemps en possession de nommer un supérieur pour celle des Tamarois, prérogative dont le dit Séminaire ne s'est défait qu'en faveur de l'Evêque de Québec. Mais quoiqu'il en soit, je crois qu'il est prudent de nous accommoder jusqu'à nouvel ordre aux circonstances du temps, et quoique je n'aie pas la liberté de souscrire au démembrement de cette partie de mon Diocèse sans le consentement de mon Coadjuteur et de mon clergé, la divine Providence ayant permis que les Illinois &c soient tombés en la puissance des Etats Unis dont la conduite spirituelle est confiée à vos soins, je vous supplie instamment de vouloir bien continuer provisonnellement à pourvoir ces missions, attendu qu'il me seroit difficile d'y pourvoir moi-même sans donner peut-être quelque ombrage au gouvernement Britannique. Les té- [Translation.] land. I do not know the extent of their faculties of which they render no account to me; and, as for the rest, I am not disposed to disturb them about it, etc." Such, sir, were the sentiments of my predecessor on the subject of these missions. It is true that they are incontestibly in the diocese of Quebec according to our original grant, and also that the Seminary of Quebec for a long time had the right to nominate a superior among the Tamarois, a prerogative which the said seminary resigned only in favor of the bishop of Quebec. Be that as it may, I believe it is prudent for us under the circumstances to accommodate ourselves until a new order adjusted to the circumstances of the time is inaugurated. Al- though I am not at liberty to assent to the dismemberment of this part of my diocese without the consent of my coadjutor and of my clergy, Divine Providence having permitted the Illinois, etc. to fall into the power of the United States, the spiritual charge of which is confided to your care, I urgently beseech you to continue for the present to pro- vide for these missions, as it would be difficult for me to supply them my- self without perhaps giving some offense to the British government.
Page 589
BISHOP OF QUEBEC TO MR. CARROLL, OCT. 3, 1788 589 moignages que l'on rend de toutes parts à votre vertu me persuadent que les fidèles de ces quartiers se réjouiront de vous avoir pour supérieur ecclésiastique. Il est vrai que Mr Gibeau fut nommé il y a 20 ans Vicaire général pour le pays des Illinois. Mais depuis ce temps le siège épiscopal de Québec a changé deux fois de possesseur sans que ses pouvoirs aient été renouvelles. Des plaintes de différentes espèces, et surtout un soupçon de trahisson envers le Gouvernement, ont donné à mes prédéces- seurs de l'éloignement pour sa personne, tellement que je me propose de ne lui donner désormais aucun emploi; la chose seroit plus facile de votre côté J'ai reçu une lettre de lui cette année par laquelle il demande à revenir dans la province de Québec. Après les idées désavantageuses qu'a conçu de lui le Gouvernement, je ne puis prudemment consentir à son retour. Néanmoins si vous jugez à propos de le continuer mission- naire, je ratifie d'avance tout ce qu'il vous plaira d'ordonner tant à son égard qu'à l'égard des autres missionnaires présens et à venir. Remarquez, s'il vous plait, que Mr De la Valinière est un homme de [Translation.] The testimony that is rendered on ail sides to your virtue convinces me that the faithful of that section will rejoice to have you for their ecclesiastical superior. True it is that M. Gibault was nominated twenty years ago as vicar gênerai for the Illinois country; but since that time the épiscopal see of Québec has twice changed its incumbent without his faculties having been renewed. Complaints of différent kinds, especially a suspicion of treason towards the government, caused my predecessors to entertain some antipathy towards him, so much so that I propose to give him no employment for the future. That would be easier for you to do I received a letter from him this year in which he asks to come back to the Province of Québec. After the disadvantageous opinion that the government has formed of him, I can not prudently consent to his return. Nevertheless, if you judge it proper to continue him as a missionary, I ratify in advance ail that you may be pleased to ordain therein, either in regard to him or to other missionaries now there or
Page 590
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS très bonnes moeurs, mais que son esprit remuant est capable de causer beaucoup de troubles à ses confrères, comme nous l'avons éprouvé en Canada. Par rapport au Détroit, je continuerai d'y envoyer des mis- sionnaires comme ci-devant. J'ai l'honneur de me dire avec une vénération sincère en union à vos SS. sacrifices, Monsieur, Votre très humble et très obéissant serviteur, Jean François Evêque de Québec. [Translation.] to be sent. Observe, please, that M. de la Valiniere is a man of very good morals but that, as we have experienced in Canada, his turbulent spirit is capable of causing much trouble to his associates. As for Detroit, I shall continue to send missionaries there as heretofore. I have the honor to subscribe myself, with sincere veneration, in union with your holy sacrifices, sir, your humble and obedient servant. (Signed) Jean François, Bishop of Quebec. Right Reverend John Carroll to Father Gibault, January 20, 1790. [ New Madrid Archives, xi., Mo. Hist. Soc. — A. L. S.] Baltimore ce 20 Janvier 1790. Monsr Gibault, Curé au poste Vincennes Monsieur, II est arrivé tres malheureusement pour les affaires de votre Eglise, ainsi que pour ma satisfaction, que les porteurs de vos lettres du 16 Juin, et du 28 de Juillet soient arrivés et repartis d'içi dans le tems de [Translation.] Baltimore, Jan. 20, 1790. To M. Gibault, Priest at Post Vincennes. Sir: It happened, very unfortunately for the affairs of your church as well as for my pleasure, that the bearers of your letters of June 16 and July 28 arrived and departed from here during my absence.1 You 1Careful search has been madc in the archives of Baltimore and Washington for letters of this period by Father Gibault and the other priests in the Old Northwest to Bishop Carroll without dis- covering any.
Page 591
CARROLL TO GIBAULT, JANUARY 20, 1790 591 mon absence, vous faites tort a Mr de la Valinière en imputant à lui seul les accusations, dont j'ai fait mention dans ma lettre précédente. Des Voyageurs revenus a Philadelphia de Kaskaskias les avoient parlé même avant son départ [word illegible] & sans sçavoir quel etoit le prêtre, que ces accusations regardoient en particulier, je l'avois chargé, lors de son départ de Philadelphie de faire des informations à ce sujet. Depuis çe tems, j'ai reçu par différentes voyes les notices dont je vous ai fait part en ma dernière lettre. Je suis même fâché de vous dire, que Mgr L'Eveque de Québec dans une lettre, qu'il me fit l'honneur de m'ecrire, me marqua que ses prédécesseurs avoient cru devoir ne pas se fier si en tiennent sur vous, pendant les dernières années qu'ils avoient fait pour toute cette partie de l'ouset. Depuis le départ d'ici du Pere Jacobin nommé Le Dru, je n'ai point reçu, suivant sa convention avec moi, une lettre de son Provincial en France, par laquelle il devoit certifier de la bonne conduite de son sujet, & autoriser sa demeure en Amérique hors de son convent. Au contraire, j'ai reçu a la voie de la Nouvelle York des détails sur la conduite de ce Religieux en Acadie, [Translation.] wrong M. de la Valinière by imputing to him alone the accusations of which I made mention in my former letter.1 Travelers who returned to Philadelphia from Kaskaskia had mentioned thèse things even before his departure from there, and without knowing who was the priest whom thèse accusations particularly concerned, I had commanded him, at the time of his departure from Philadelphia, to send me some infor- mation on this subject. Since that time I have received from différent sources the accounts of which I informed you in my last letter. In fact I regret to tell you that Monseigneur the Bishop of Québec in a letter which he has written me, called to my notice that his predecessors had thought during the last years that they ought not to confide so much in you for ail that part of the West as they had formerly done. Since the departure from here of Father Jacobin named Le Dru,2 I have not received, according to his agreement with me, a letter from his provincial in France, who was to certify to the good conduct of Father Le Dru and authorize his stay in America and out of his monastery. 1 This letter has not been found. 2 A Dominican father, formerly ernploycd in Canada, who was sent by Bishop Carroll to the Illinois country. He was in Kaskaskia in 1789, but was, in November of that year, induced by the Spaniards to cross the river to St. Louis, where he served the parish till 1794. Ànte, p. 510; Houck, Bist. o\ Missouri, II., 309; Shea, Lije 0/ Archbishop Carroll, 471.
Page 592
59» ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS qui m'accablent de tristesse, & me font accuser ma trop grande facilité a lui donner du pouvoirs, même pour un tems fort limité. Je vous prie de vous procurer, & de me transmettre, par la première occasion, des bonnes informations a son égard, touchant sa conduite au Kaskaskias, J'ai aussi des inquiétudes par rapport a Monsr St Pierre. Il est parti d'ici sans pouvoir pour l'administration des Sacraments, que, dans ce tems, je n'etois pas en droit de lui accorder et depuis son départ, je n'ai pu me résoudre a lui en envoyer; parceque je ne suis nullement assuré, qu'il est venu en Amérique du gré des Supérieurs de son Ordre, ou avec telles approbations, qu'exigent les usages de la discipline Ecclésiastique. Mr de la Valinière m'a demandé, il y a longtems, que Monsr de St Pierre ne tenoit aucun conte de l'autorité, que le premier exercoit de ma part. Des informations encore, si vous voulez bien à ce sujet. Il y a bien de tems, que je n'ai pas des nouvelles de monsr La Valinière, Un Négociant de la Nouvelle York m'a dit l'avoir vu a la Nouvelle Orléans vers le mois de d'Aoust, & qu'il se proposoit de venir ici par mer. [Translation.] On the contrary, I have received by way of New York some détails on the conduct of this monk in Acadia which weigh me down with sorrow and make me blâme my too great readiness in giving him power even for a very limited time. I beg of you to procure and send me by the first opportunity, some reliable information conceming him and his con- duct at Kaskaskia. I am also worried with regard to M. de St. Pierre. He left here without any power to administer the sacraments, for at that time I possessed no right to grant it to him j1 and since his departure I have been unable to make up my mind to send him that power, be- cause I am in no wise assured that he came to America with the consent of the superiors of his order or with such approbation as the usages of ecclesiastical discipline require. M. de la Valinière told me, a long time ago, that M. de St. Pierre paid no attention to the authority that the former exercised on my behalf. Send me some more information in this matter if you so désire. It has been a long time since I have received news from M. de la Valinière. A merchant from New York told me that he had seen him at New Orléans in the month of August, and that he was planning to corne hère by sea. 1 Because he started wcstward before Mr. Carroll received officiai notice of his appointaient, as prefcct apostolic. Shea, Lije of Archbishop Carroll, 258.
Page 593
BISHOP CARROLL TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC Je vous suis infiniment obligé de tous les details, dans laquels vous êtes entré par rapport aux beins de l'Eglise du poste Vincennes; et si l'occasion se présente, je tacherai d'en profiter pour donner solidité a ses titres. Les points, sur lesquels vous êtes convenus avec Mes" les Mar- guilliers de remettre à ma decision, sont exprimés dans le papier çi joint; et j'ai ajouté ma façon de penser sur chacun, Je me flatte, qu'elle sera conformé a votre interest & satisfaction particulière, comme elle est, a çe qu'il me semble, a la justice. En me recommendant à vos Sts sacrifices et prières, Je suis avec respect Monsr Votre très humble & obéissant serv* J. Carroll. [Joined herewith is his décision on subject in dispute.] [Translation.] I am very much obliged to you for all the details into which you have entered respecting the possessions of the church at Post Vincennes; and, if the occasion presents itself, I shall try to profit by it so as to put the titles on a solid foundation. The cases, concerning which you agreed with the marguilliers to submit to my decision, are set forth in the papers herewith enclosed, and I have added my opinion on each one. I trust that it may be in accord with your private interest and satisfaction, as it is, so it seems to me, in accord with justice. Recommending myself to your holy sacri- fices and prayers, I am with respect, sir, Your very humble and obedient servant, J. Carroll. Right Reverend Bishop Carroll to the Bishop of Quebec, January 20, 1792. [Archiépiscopal Archives, Quebec, — A. L. S.] Baltimore, ce 20 de janvier 1792. A Monseigneur Jean Francis, Evêque de Québec à Québec. [Translation.] Baltimore, January 20, 1792. To Monseigneur Jean Francois, Bishop of Quebec, at Quebec.
Page 594
594 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Monseigneur, J'ai reçu avec attendrissement et vénération les félicitations que V. G. m'a fait l'honneur de m'addresser sur l'établissement du nouveau diocèse de Baltimore. Puisse cet établissement devenir ce que vous en augurez, un acheminement vers l'accroissement de la vraie foi dans les vastes contrées qu'embrasse mon diocèse! Puisse-t-il être soutenu toujours par des vertus épiscopalles telles, Mgr, que les vôtres, et par un clergé aussi édifiant que celui du Canada! En mon particulier, je me ferai toujours un devoir d'entretenir avec le siège de Québec non seulement une communion de foi, et union fraternelle de charité, mais d'avoir envers V. Grandeur une respectueuse confiance, et d'en donner les preuves par la communication de toutes mes vues et projets pour con- server et étendre le règne de J. Christ. Vous regardant comme mon ainé dans l'épiscopat et mon modèle, je m'efforcerai à assimiler ma con- duite aux principes qui animent la vôtre. Il est vrai, et je n'en puis assez bénir la Providence, le respectable Mr Nagot, en conséquence des arrangemens faits durant mon voyage en Europe, est ici à Baltimore à la tête d'un séminaire avec quatre autres prêtres et six jeunes ecclésiastiques, dont quatre sont Anglois ou Améri- [Translation.] Monseigneur: I received with emotion and veneration the congratulations which your Lordship did me the honor to address to me concerning the estab- lishment of the new diocese of Baltimore. May this establishment become, what you predict, a stepping stone towards the growth of the true faith in the vast regions which my diocese embraces. May it ever be supported by episcopal virtues, Monseigneur, such as yours and by a clergy as edifying as that of Canada. For my part, I shall always consider it my duty to maintain with the see of Quebec not only a communion of faith and a fraternal union of charity, but also to have towards your Lordship a respectful confidence and to give proof of this by the communication of all my views and projects to preserve and enlarge the kingdom of Jesus Christ. Considering you as my elder in the bishopric and my model, I shall endeavor to liken my conduct to the principles which animate yours. It is true — and for this I cannot thank Providence enough— the venerable M. Nagot, in consequence of the arrangements made during my stay in Europe, is here in Baltimore at the head of a seminary to-
Page 595
BISHOP CARROLL TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC 595 cains. Ils se sont procurés une maison convenable et tous les exercices s'y font. Outre le séminaire, nous venons aussi d'ouvrir une école, ou collège catholique, à quinze lieues d'ici pour l'instruction en lettres et piété de la jeunesse catholique. J'espère beaucoup que la Providence at- tirera beaucoup des élèves de ce collège au service de l'Eglise, et qu'il deviendra une pépinière pour le séminaire. J'aurai alors, si je serai encore vivant, ou mes successeurs auront la consolation de ne donner pour pasteurs immédiats à notre troupeau que des prêtres élevés sous nos yeux, et sur lesquels on pourra conter avec une certitude morale. Voilà, Mongr, ce que vous pouvez écrire à Monsr Hody, qui m'a fait l'honneur de m'écrire depuis quelque tems, et à qui je conte de faire réponse incessamment. Je ne sais si l'on vous a écrit de Rome ce qu'on y a décidé touchant l'étendue de nos diocèses respectives. On a mis sous ma jurisdiction tout le territoire des Etats Unis. Apparemment on a cru, et peut-être avec raison, que notre gouvernement auroit pris ombrage en vous voyant [ Translation.] gether with four other priests and six young ecclesiastics, four of whom are either English or American. They have secured a suitable house for themselves and all the exercises are performed there. Besides the seminary, we have recently opened a school or Catholic college, some fifteen miles from here, for the literary and moral instruc- tion of Catholic youth. I sincerely hope that Providence will draw many of the students in this college into the service of the Church, and that it will become a nursery for the seminary. I shall then have, if I am still living, or my successors will have, the consolation of giving to our flock for their own ministers only priests brought up under our very eyes, and on whom we will be able to depend with moral assurance. This is, then, Monseigneur what you may write to M. Hody, who did me the honor to write to me some time ago, and to whom I intend to reply shortly. I do not know whether they have written to you from Rome con- cerning the decision reached there in regard to the extent of our respective dioceses. AH the territory of the United States has been placed under my jurisdiction. Apparently it was believed, and perhaps rightly, that our government would take umbrage at seeing you exercise spiritual
Page 596
596 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS exercer une autorité spirituelles dans ses domaines. J'attends de la France, au printems, quelques ecclésiastiques bien choisis pour servir aux Illinois et au poste Vincennes. Vous m'obligerez beaucoup en me faisant donner une notice sure et exacte sur les biens que possédoit dans les Etats Unis votre église ou votre Séminaire. Ces biens vous appartiennent encore, suivant nos loix, si vous ne vous en êtes pas dépossédés par quelqu'acte de votre part. L'an passé, Monsr Gibault, et d'autres individus, au moyen d'un exposé que je crois bien faux, ont obtenu l'octroi de quelques biens ecclésiastiques situés au Kaskaskias et à la poste Vincennes. Je prens des mesures pour faire invalider cet octroi; mais je suis fort gêné, faute des connoissances sures relativement à ces biens. J'attends de vous, Mgr, un éclaircissement qui servira peut-être à déconcerter l'iniquité et à avantager nos deux diocèses. J'ai l'honneur d'être, en union de vos SS. sacrifices et avec le plus profond respect, Monseigneur, De Votre Grandeur, le très humble et très obéissant serv. J. Evêque de Baltimore. [Translation.] authority in its domains. I am expecting this spring a few well chosen ecclesiastics from France to serve in the Illinois and at Post Vincennes. You will greatly oblige me by procuring for me a sure and exact notice of the property which your church or your seminary possessed in the United States. Thèse possessions belong to you still, according to our laws, if you have not lost possession of them through some act on your part. Last year, M. Gibault and some other persons, by means of a statement which I regard false, obtained the grant of some ecclesiastical property situated at Kaskaskia and at Post Vincennes. [Cohokia?] * I am taking steps to have that grant invalidated, but I am very much hampered because I lack definite knowledge concerning thèse possessions. I expect from you, Monseigneur, some information which will serve to defeat iniquity and advance our two diocèses. I have the honor to be, in union with your holy sacrifices and with the profoundest respect, Monseigneur, your Lordship's Very humble and very obedient servant, J. Bishop of Baltimore. •For a pétition by Father Gibault for ecclesiastical lands at Cahokia, see Amer. Slale Papers, Public Lanjs, 1 , ai; and for the grant to him, Sen. Jour., jd Sess., Isl Cong., p. 303.
Page 597
BISHOP CARROLL TO GIBAULT, JANUARY 23, 1792 597 Right Révérend Bishop Carroll to Father Gibault January 23, 1792. [New Madrid Archives, xi., Mo. Hist. Soc. — A. L. S.] Baltimore ce 23 Janvier 1792 Monsieur, Je n'ai pas encore eu le bonheur de recevoir de réponse aux lettres, que j'ai livrées a Monsr Vigaut pour vous & pour d'autres personnes au mois de Decre 1790. J'ai appris depuis peu, que celui, qui etoit porteur des différentes lettres pour moi, a été intercepté par les sauvages. C'est un malheur a moi. Il me falloit bien des renseignments, et je me flattois, que ces lettres me les auroient données, Entre autres, j'ai vu au mois de mars de l'an passé l'annonce d'une loi faite par le Congrès des Etats Unis, par laquelle une certaine possession, ci devant Ecclé- siastique, vous est transférée comme votre bien particulier et individu; et un autre bien qu'on dit avoir été celui des Jesuits, et que etoit au Kaskaskias, a été concédé a un certain particulier. Je voudrais être instruit a ces égard; parceque tant dans l'attente de recevoir bientôt des coadjuteurs pour vous aider dans votre pénible ministère, il est important d'assuré a vous a eux & a vos successeurs les biens & Eglise. J'ai le bonheur de pouvoir dire, qu'une colonie des prêtres et de [Translation.] Baltimore, January 23, 1792. Sir: I have not yet had the good fortune to receive an answer to the letters which I gave to M. Vigo for you and for other persons in the month of December, 1790. I was informed, a short time ago, that the bearer of thèse différent letters, was captured by the Indians. It is a misfortune for me. I had indeed need of information and I was flattering myself that those letters would bring it. Among other things, I saw in the month of March of last year, the announcement of a law passed by the Congress of the United States, by which a certain posses- sion, hitherto ecclesiastic, is transferred to you to be your private and particular property; and another property situated at Kaskaskia which they say belonged to the Jesuits, was granted to a certain indi- vidual.1 I should like to be instructed concerning this, for I am in the hope of receiving soon some helpers to aid you in your laborious 1 See Sen. Jour., 3J. Sess.t ist Ctmg., 303. 1
Page 598
598 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS jeunes Ecclesiastiques du Seminaire de St Sulpice de Paris s'est trans- ferée içi au mois de Juin passé, et que j'en ai formé un Seminaire Epis- copal en cette ville, qui a pour Superieur Monsr Nagot, cidevant super- ieur du grand Seminaire de sa congregation à Paris. Je ne doute nullement, que cet etablissement ne devienne, avec l'aide de Dieu, une source des benédictions sur mon diocese: & sur cette partie speciale- ment ou vous êtes. Vous verrez par ma lettre circulaire pour les habitans du poste Vincennes de Kaskaskias &c, que les Ecclesiastiques, que j'attens encor de la France, sont destinés a leur service. Vous les recevrez sans doute avec empressement et une charité fraternelle. Je vous les recom- menderai bien chaudement & je conte, que vous vous interesserez, pour que les fraix de leur long voyage soient defraiez du moins pour leur depense d'ici, J'ai l'honneur d'etre en union avec vos Sts sacrifices Monsieur Votre très obeiss* S* J. Eveque de Baltimore. [Translation.] duties, and it is important to preserve for you, for them, and for your successors the possessions of the Church. I am happy to be able to say that a number of priests and young ecclesiastics from the Seminary of St. Sulpice in Paris came here last June, and that I united them into an ecclesiastical seminary in this town, and that M. Nagot is the superior. He was formerly superior of the large seminary of his congregation in Paris. I do not doubt at all but that this establishment will become, with the help of God, a source of benediction on my diocese, and especially in that section where you are. You will see by the circular letter for the inhabitants of the Post Vincennes, Kaskaskia, etc., that the ecclesiastics, whom I am still expecting from France, are destined for their service. You will doubt- less receive them with joy and brotherly kindness. I shall recommend them to you very warmly, and I trust that you will interest yourself so that the expenses of their long voyage may be defrayed, at least their expense from here. I have the honor to be, in union with your holy sacrifices, sir, Your very obedient servant, J. Bishop of Baltimore.
Page 599
BISHOP CARROLL TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC 599 RIGHT REVEREND BISHOP CARROLL tO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC, May 4, 1792. [Archiepiscopal Archives, Quebec — A. L. S.] Baltimore ce 4e de Mai 1792. Monseigneur, J'ai eu l'honneur de vous prévenir, Monseigneur, dansma dernière lettre, que le bien de Kaskaskias réclamé par votre Séminaire de Qué- bec avoit été octroyé, par une surprise faite au Congrès, à un habitant de cet endroit; et qu'en même tems Monsr Gibault a obtenu, comme sa propriété personnelle, le bien appartenant ci-devant au curé de Cahokias. J'ai présenté, il y a deux mois, un mémoire au Général Washington, président des Etats Unis, dans lequel j'ai glissé quelques mots touchant ce double octroi; mais n'ayant aucune connoissance exacte des titres de la propriété de ces biens, je n'ai pu donner suite à cette affaire, que je me propose cependant de reprendre aussitôt que le Congrès se rassemblera, si entre tems je pourrai avoir les informations [ Translation. ] Baltimore, May 4, 1792. Monseigneur: 1 I had the honor to inform you in my last letter, Monseigneur, that the possession of Kaskaskia, to which your seminary of Quebec lays claim, had been granted to an inhabitant of that place, through some deceit managed in Congress; and that at the same time M. Gibault obtained, as his personal property, the possession belonging hereto- fore to the priest of Cahokia.2 Some two months ago, I presented to General Washington, president of the United States, a memorandum in which I introduced a few words relating to this double grant ;8 but not having any exact knowledge of the titles of ownership of these posses- sions, I was not able to lay stress on this matter, which, nevertheless, I intend to take up again as soon as Congress reassembles, if in the meantime I can procure the required information. It seems to me that 1 The two opening paragraphs, omitted here, have been printed in translation by Abbé L. Lindsay in Records of the Amer. Cath. Hist. Society, xviii., No. a, p. 163. 2Bishop Carroll has confused the villages throughout this correspondance. The property of the Jesuits was in Kaskaskia, the scminary's property in Cahokia. 2 Although search has been made for it, this memorial has not been found.
Page 600
6oo ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS requises; il me semble que si MMrs les Directeurs du Séminaire de votre ville épiscopale, chez lesquels sont déposes, à ce que l'on m'a dit les titres de ces biens, vouloient bien les confier à une personne de confiance, et que leur droit fut constaté, ou les biens seront rendus, ou sera donné un équivalent. Nous avons ici au Séminaire un jeune clerc de votre diocèse, qu à présent fait sa théologie. Il s'appelle Périnault, de Montréal; son père est actuellement en France. C'est un jeune ecclésiastique bien vertueux et du meilleur caractère du monde. Il m'a beaucoup prié de vous présenter, comme à son très honoré et très digne évêque, l'hom- mage de sa vénération et de soumission, et de vous demander si vous croyez qu'il seroit convenable qu'il achevât ici sa théologie, & prit les ordres sacrés avant que de retourner à votre diocèse. En tel cas, il présentera à V. Grandeur ses voeux pour avoir les dimissoires néces- saires. Monsr Burke, ci-devant un des directeurs de votre Séminaire, étant celui qui me donna les premières informations touchant les droits de ce séminaire aux biens de Kaskaskias, je l'ai prié de m'envoyer tous [Translation.] if the directors of the Seminary of your espiscopal town, with whom, as I have been told, are deposited the titles of those possessions, were kind enough to entrust them to some responsible person, and if their right were proved, either the possessions would be returned, or an equivalent would be given. We have here in the Seminary a young clerical from your diocese, who at present is studying theology. He is from Montreal, his name is Perinault. His father is now in France. This young ecclesiastic is very virtuous and of an excellent character. He has asked me to present to you, as his very honored and very worthy bishop, the homage of his esteem and submission, and also to ask you if you think that it would be well for him to finish his theology here, and to take the sacred orders before returning to your diocese. In such a case, he will present to your Lordship his vows in order to have the necessary letter of dismission. M. Burke, formerly one of the directors of your Seminary being the one who gave me the first information in regard to the titles of that seminary to the possessions of Kaskaskia [Cahokia?], I have asked
Page 601
BISHOP CARROLL TO THE BISHOP OF QUEBEC 601 les éclaircissemens nécessaires à faire constater ces droits; de mon côté je lui transmets par cette même occasion copies de l'acte du Con- grès & un extrait du rapport qui a été fait à ce corps, et a motivé son décret. Monsr Burke m'aiant témoigné quelque désir de se rendre à mon diocèse, j'y ai consenti, à condition que vous, Mongr, n'aiez aucune répugnance à son départ, et que vous croyez qu'il ait les qualités requises pour servir le Seigneur dans la vigne qu'il m'a confié. Il vous fera voir les pièces que je lui ai adressés. Ce sera pour moi une très douce satisfaction d'apprendre, au retour de Mr Delavau, que la nouvelle constitution du Canada ne préjudicie en rien au bien de vraie religion. J'ai l'honneur d'être avec les sentimens d'une parfaite estime et de la plus grande vénération, Monseigneur, Votre très humble et très obéisst serviteur, J. Evêque de Baltimore. [Translation.] him to send me all the necessary information to establish these titles; on my part I am sending him by this same occasion copies of the act of Congress and an extract of the report which was presented to this body, and which resulted in its decree.1 M. Burke has expressed some desire to come to my diocese and I consented, on condition that you, Monseigneur, should have no objec- tion to his leaving, and that you think that he has the qualifications required to serve the Lord in the vineyard which He intrusted to me. M. Burke will show you the papers which I addressed to him. It will be a very great satisfaction for me to learn, on the return of M. Delavau, that the new constitution of Canada is not prejudicial in any way to the welfare of true religion. I have the honor of being with the sentiments of the greatest esteem and veneration, Monseigneur, Your very humble and very obedient servant, J. Bishop of Baltimore. Report of Governor St. Clair, printed in Amer. State Papers, Pub. Lands, I., 19 et seç; the Act of Congress, printed in Sen. Jour., jrd Ses*., 1tt. Cong., p. 302.
Page 602
6o2 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS The Bishop of Qubec to Bishop Carroix, May 18,1792. Montréal, 18 mai 1792. A Mgr l'Evêque de Baltimore. Monseigneur, J'ai communiqué à MMrs du Séminaire de Québec l'article de votre dernière qui concernoit la mission des Tamarois. Les papiers ci-joints qui m'ont été envoyés depuis mon départ pour la visite pastorale pourront vous donner, Monseigneur, quelque éclaircissement sur l'objet en question. De mon côté il me seroit impossible d'éclaircir davantage la chose, attendu que je n'en ai jamais eu qu'une connoissance très imparfaite. Mais comme je suis persuadé que vos opérations ne ten- dent qu'à la plus grande gloire de Dieu et au bien des fidèles de ces endroits, je ne doute nullement du succès des mesures que vous pourrez prendre avec MMrs du Séminaire pour l'avantage de cette mission que la divine providence a fait tomber sous vos soins charitables. J'ai l'honneur d'être avec une respectueuse vénération, Monseig- neur, &c. Jean Franç3 Evêque de Québec. [Translation.] Montreal, May 18, 1792. To Monseigneur, the Bishop of Baltimore. Monseigneur, I have communicated to the gentlemen of the Seminary of Quebec the paragraph in your last letter which concerned the mission of the Tamarois. The papers, here inclosed, which were given me after my departure on the pastoral visitation, may give you, Monseigneur, some light on the subject in question. On my part it would be impossible to throw any more light on the matter, inasmuch as I never had but a very imperfect knowledge of it. But as I am persuaded that your efforts tend only to the greatest glory of God and to the welfare of the faithful of those regions, I in no wise doubt the success of the measures which you may take with the gentlemen of the Seminary for the ad- vantage of that mission which Divine Providence has placed under your protecting care. I have the honor to be, with a most respectful veneration, Mon- seigneur, &c. Jean François, Bishop of Quebec.
Page 603
LIST OF DOCUMENTS
Page 604
Blank page
Page 605
LIST OF DOCUMENTS CHAPTER I. THE PRELUDE PAGE George Morgan to Richard Winston and Patrick Kennedy, July 6, 1776: situation in Illinois — trade in horses — retribution grant 1 Daniel Murray to Governor Guy Carleton, March 31,1777: treat- ment of traders by P. de Rocheblave 4 Daniel Murray to Thomas Bentley, May 25, 1777: trade — action of P. de Rocheblave against T. Bentley — spies of G. R. Clark.. 6 Thomas Bentley to Daniel Murray, August 1,1777: arrest of T. Bentley — injustice of P. de Rocheblave — intercourse with Americans 8 Defense of Thomas Bentley, August 1,1777: trade with Indians — injustice of P. de Rocheblave 12 Report of Lieutenant Governor Henry Hamilton, August 15,1777: arrest of T. Bentley 16 Court of Enquiry, September 11,1777: called by P. de Rocheblave — treason in Illinois — accusations against P. de Rocheblave — testimony of P. Kennedy — testimony of J. Charleville — testi- mony of F. Droiiart — testimony of Mme. Cerré — testimony of Mme. de Lisle — testimony of Touranjeau — testimony of Mile. Lasoudraye — testimony of Sylvester — testimony of Picard — testimony of A. Pelletier — testimony of D. Coiel — testimony of P. Kennedy — testimony of H. Bolen — testimony of Pierre — testimony of F. Carbonneaux — testimony of N. Lachanse — exoneration of P. de Rocheblave 18 Petition of Thomas Bentley to Governor Guy Carleton, October 6, 1777: arrest of T. Bentley — trade 41 605
Page 606
6o6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS A Registration, November 8,1777: seizure of goods for debt 43 Richard M'Carty to John Askin, June 7, 1778: situation in Illi- nois 44 Major Arent S. De Peyster to Governor Frederick Haldimand, August 15,1778: situation in Illinois 45 CHAPTER II. THE VIRGINIANS OCCUPY ILLINOIS, JULY 4, 1778, TO MAY 12, 1779. Patrick Henry's Commission to Richard Winston, July, 1778: appointment as captain 47 Gabriel Cerré to George R. Clark, July 11, 1778: declaration of submission 48 Richard Winston to the Officer of the Guard: disturbances in Kaskaskia 49 Jean Bte. Laffont to George R. Clark, August 7, 1778: services of Father P. Gibault and J. B. Laffont 50 Deposition of Louis Sequin concerning capture of Vincennes, 1834: Sequin's mission to Vincennes 51 M. Monforton to Gabriel Cerré, September 22, 1778: capture of P. de Rocheblave — alliance of France and United States — British colonial policy — American cause in Canada 53 Promissory note of James Harrod and John Williams to Charles Gratiot, November 9,1778: registration of note 59 Instructions to George R. Clark from the Governor Patrick Henry, December 12, 1778: treatment of French and Indians — appointment of J. Todd — expedition against Detroit — policy towards Spaniards — Mme. Rocheblave — provisions for troops 60 Governor Patrick Henry to George R. Clark, December 15, 1778: appointment of J. Todd — alliance of France and Spain with United States — American cause in Canada 63 Proclamation by George R. Clark, December 24, 1778: regulations concerning slaves 64 Petition of Widow of Antoine Cottinault, February 18, 1779: management of estate of A. Cottinault 68 Joseph Bowman to Richard Lernoult, March 20, 1779: concern- ing release of T. Bentley 73
Page 607
LIST OF DOCUMENTS 607 Jean Girault to Richard Lernoult, March 21, 1779: concerning release of T. Bentley 74 John Todd to George R. Clark, March 24, 1779: capture of Vincennes by H. Hamilton — trade with Indians — American successes in South — Continental currency 75 John Bradley to Thomas Bentley, May 5, 1779: release of T. Bentley 76 Sale of land by Father P. Gibault, May 7,1779: S. Trigg buys land of P. Gibault and G. Cerré — G. R. Clark buys land of S. Trigg 77 CHAPTER III. THE BEGINNINGS OF CIVIL GOVERNMENT, MAY 12 TO NOVEMBER 13, 1779. Speech of George R. Clark to the Inhabitants of Kaskaskia, May 12, 1779: capture of Vincennes — appointment of J. Todd — election of judges 80 Speech of John Todd to the Inhabitants of Kaskaskia, May 12, 1779: appointment of J. Todd — election of judges 83 Election at Prairie du Rocher, May 19, 1779: election of J. B. BarbauandA. Duchaufour de Louvieres 85 Certificate of election by John Todd, May 21,1779: composition of Court at Kaskaskia 86 Certificate of appointment of Sheriff by John Todd, May 21,1779: appointment of R. Winston 87 Bond of Richard Winston, May 21,1779: bond as sheriff 87 Magistrates of Kaskaskia to John Todd, May 21, 1779: pillaging by soldiers — sale of liquor to Indians and slaves — speculation inland 88 Appointment of Henry Croucher as Deputy Attorney by Jean Girault, June 8,1779: powers of deputy attorney 94 Petition to the Court at Kaskaskia, June 12, 1779: lawsuit of P. Desrochers, Labouté, L. Boisdoré and J. Larame against Proveau for wages 95 Warrant from John Todd to Richard Winston, June 14, 1779: execution of slave 97 JohnTodd to George R. Clark, June 22,1779: Indian troubles 97
Page 608
6o8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Protest concerning notes of exchange by Joseph F. Perrault, June 24,1779: letters of exchange of G. R. Clark on O. Pollock 98 Proclamation prohibiting exports by Gabriel Cerré, June 28,1779.... 101 Gabriel Cerré to George R. Clark, July 12, 1779: purchase of supplies — depreciation of letters of exchange — use of forge by troops 102 John Dodge to Philip Boyle, July 13, 1779: escape of J. Dodge— imprisonment of H. Hamilton, P. Dejean, G. La Mothe, and J. Hay 104 Certificate from George R. Clark, July 14,1779: supplies furnished by Kaskaskia and Cahokia 105 John Todd to George R. Clark, July 28,1779: situation in Illinois.. 106 John Todd to Judges of the Court at Kaskaskia, July 30, 1779: reassembling of Court 106 Court Record of Kaskaskia, August 2, 1779,10 August 1, 1781: oaths of A. Bauvais, J. B. Charleville, and F. Carbonneaux 107 Arent S. De Peyster to Thomas Bentley, August 9, 1779: arrest of T. Bentley 108 John Todd to William Fleming, August 18, 1779: situation in Northwest 109 John Todd to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 23,1779: reassembling of Court in Jean Girault to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 24,1779: disorders in Kaskaskia in John Montgomery to the Inhabitants of Kaskaskia, August 20, 1779: demand for supplies 113 List of Contributors, made by Patrick Kennedy, Assistant Commis- sary, August 31,1779: supplies for troops 116 Proclamation of Court at Kaskaskia concerning liquor traffic, September 6,1779: trade with Indians and slaves 117 John Dodge to Lebron, September 15,1779: escape of J. Dodge — imprisonment of H. Hamilton, P. Dejean, G. La Mothe, and J. Hay — alliance of Spain and France with United States 119 John Dodge to Pere Pierre Pothier, September 15, 1779: escape of J. Dodge — conference of French with Indians 120 John Dodge to Philip Boyle, September 18, 1779: escape of J. Dodge — imprisonment of H. Hamilton, P. Dejean, and G. La Mothe —American successes 122 ,
Page 609
LIST OF DOCUMENTS 609 John Williams to George R. Clark, September 25,1779: lack of supplies — difficulties of Captain R. M'Carty 122 Extract from the Court Record, September 28, 1779: lawsuit of J. Datchurutztf. G. Cerré 123 John Montgomery to George R. Clark, September 29,1779: cloth- ing for troops — settlement at Bellefontaine — accounts of J. Buchanan — misconduct of soldiers 125 John Montgomery to George R. Clark, October 2, 1779: lack of supplies — prohibition of exports 126 John Todd to George R. Clark, during 1779: a dispute with the Spaniards 127 John Todd to George R. Clark, October 3, 1779: purchase of peltry fund 128 John Montgomery to George R. Clark, October 5, 1779: peltry fund — maintenance of troops 128 Notice given by John Todd, October 4, 1779: confiscation of land 129 William Shannon to , August 3, 1792: purchase of peltry fund — expedition against Detroit — financial policy of J. Todd 130 CHAPTER IV. THE COURT AND THE MILITARY, NOVEMBER 15, 17 79, TO JUNE 8, 1780. John Montgomery to George R. Clark, November 15, 1779: des- titute condition of troops 133 Extract from the Record of the Court at Kaskaskia, November 15, 1779: lawsuit of C. Gogoy vs. G. Langlois 134 Thomas Bentley to Governor Frederick Haldimand, November 1779: escape of T. Bentley 135 Protest of Inhabitants of Kaskaskia to Magistrates, December 8, 1779: pillaging by soldiers — scarcity of food 136 The Magistrates of Kaskaskia to John Montgomery, December 8, 1779: maintenance of troops 140 Governor Thomas Jefferson to [John Todd?], January 28, 1780: lack of funds — establishment of Fort Jefferson — government of Illinois 143
Page 610
6io ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Governor Thomas Jefferson to George R. Clark, January 29,1780: establishment of Fort Jefferson — recruiting of troops — lack of funds — maintenance of troops — treatment of French and Indians 144 John Montgomery to George R. Clark, February 1,1780: peltry fund 149 John Montgomery to Richard Winston, March 5, 1780: destitute condition of troops 150 John Dodge to George R. Clark, March 10, 1780: situation in Illinois 151 Jean Girault to the Court at Kaskaskia, March 11, 1780: dis- respect to Court 15a Jean Girault to the Court at Kaskaskia: oath of allegiance to Virginia 153 Marie de Rocheblave to [Governor Frederick Haldimand ?], March 27,1780: imprisonment of P. de Rocheblave 154 Edward Murray to , April 19, 1780: complaints against J. Dodge 156 Proclamation by John Montgomery, Richard Winston, and Jean de St. Germain, May 6,1780: Indians promised aid by France.. 156 John Todd to George R. Clark, June 4, 1780: situation of Ameri- can army 158 John Dodge to John Todd, June 8,1780: maintenance of troops... 159 CHAPTER V. THE SUMMER OF 1780, JUNE TO OCTOBER. Captain A. Fowler to Nicolas Janis, June 25,1780: introduction of Colonel M. de la Balme 161 Colonel Mottin de la Balme to the Chevalier de la Luzerne, June 27, 1780: conference with Indians — Godefroy de Linctot — mission to Illinois 163 Thomas Bentley to Arent S. De Peyster, July 28, 1780: escape of T. Bentley — imprisonment of H. Hamilton — release of P. Dejean 168 Thomas Bendey to George R. Clark, July 30, 1780: expedition of M. de la Balme — trade with Indians 169 \
Page 611
LIST OF DOCUMENTS 611 Thomas Bentley to Governor Frederick Haldimand, August 12, 1780: situation in Illinois 171 Thomas Bentley to Arent S. De Peyster, August 12, 1780: trade with Indians 172 Philippe de Rocheblave to Governor Frederick Haldimand, Sep- tember 9, 1780: escape of P. de Rocheblave — situation of American army — American cause in Canada — treatment of P. de Rocheblave — G. de Linctot — J. de St. Germain — offer of government of Illinois — imprisonment of H. Hamilton 173 Address of Colonel Mottin de la Balme to the French settled on the banks of the Mississippi, September 17, 1780: government of Illinois by Virginia — hostility of British and Indians — expedi- tion against Detroit 181 Inhabitants of Kaskaskia to Colonel Mottin de la Balme, Sep- tember 29,1780: tyranny of Virginians — confidence of French in M. de la Balme 189 Statement of goods furnished Colonel Mottin de la Balme, October 2,1780: expedition against Detroit 193 Richard Winston to John Todd, October 17, 1780: situation in Illinois 195 Richard Winston to Officer Commanding at Louisville, October 24,1780: situation in Illinois 197 John Montgomery to George Webb, April 23, 1782: maintenance of troops 197 Inhabitants of Kaskaskia to Chevalier de la Luzerne: expedition of M. de la Balme — distress of French inhabitants 199 CHAPTER VI. THE TRIUMVIRATE, OCTOBER l8, 1780, TO MARCH, 1781. Thomas Bentley to his enemies, September 5,1780: accusations — sale of liquor to slaves — purchase of grain 202 Captain John Rogers to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, November 10,1780: demand for supplies 206 The Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia to Captain John Rogers, November 18,1780: refusal of supplies 207
Page 612
6i2 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS George Morgan to John Dodge, December i, 1780: land cession of Virginia — new states in West 209 Captain John Rogers to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, January 10, 1781: injustice of Court toT. Bentley 211 The Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia to Captain John Rogers, January 10,1781: accusations and threats 212 Captain Robert George to the Inhabitants of Illinois, January 11, 1781: promises of correction of abuses — need of supplies 213 George Slaughter to Thomas Jefferson, January 14,1781: situation in Illinois — salines 215 Petition of Richard M'Carty to the Magistrates of the Court at Kas- kaskia, January 17,1781: law-suit of R. M'Carty vs. J. Dodge 216 Richard Winston to the Court at Kaskaskia, January 17, 1781: lawsuit of T. Bentley vs. R. Winston 218 Thomas Jefferson to George R. Clark, January 20,1781: investiga- tion of acts of J. Dodge 219 Thomas Bentley to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, January 31, 1781: complaints of unjust treatment 220 The Oath of Thomas Bentley, February 13, 1781: treatment of T. Bentley by Court 223 Thomas Bentley to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, February 18, 1781: appeal of T. Bentley to the governor and council of Virginia 225 Certificate of Daniel Murray concerning Thomas Bentley, February 23,1781: refusal of T. Bentley to take oath of allegiance 226 Certificate of Richard Winston concerning Thomas Bendey, March 9,1781: refusal of T. Bentley to take oath of allegiance 227 Affidavit of Israel Dodge, March 17, 1781: dishonesty of R. Win- ston 228 John Todd to the President of Congress, April 15, 1781: cession of Northwest by Virginia 229 Oath of allegiance to the Republic of Virginia, April 19,1781: 229 Will of Richard M'Carty, April 25,1781: made before departure of R. M'Carty for Virginia 230 Petition to the Governor of Virginia from the Inhabitants of Kaskas- kia, May 4, 1781: government of Kaskaskia by J. Mont- gomery and J. Rogers — mission of M. de la Balme — emigra- tion of French 233
Page 613
LIST OF DOCUMENTS 613 Contract of Richard M 'Carty and Pierre Prevost with the Inhabi- tants of Kaskaskia, May 5,1781: mission of R. M'Carty and P. Prevost to Virginia or Congress 241 Richard Winston and Jacques Lasource to M. La Jeunesse, May 5,1781: mission of R. M'Carty and J. Lasource to Virginia 245 Nicolas Janis to Captain A. Fowler, May 5,1781: expedition of M. de la Balme 246 CHAPTER VII. THE GOVERNMENT OF THE MAGISTRATES, MARCH, 1781, TO APRIL, 1782. William Shannon to George R. Clark, May 21, 1781: purchase of supplies 248 Richard Winston to Nicolas Janis, Magistrate at Kaskaskia, May 23, 1781: special session of Court 250 Petition of Henry Smith to the Court at Kaskaskia, May 31, 1781: lawsuit of J. Williams vs. H. Smith 251 Joseph Labuxiere to Jacques Lasource, President of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 1, 1781: registration of commission as attorney 254 Pierre Langlois to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 16,1781: petition for office of notary 256 Richard Winston to Jacques Lasource, August 17, 1781: appoint- ment of J. A. Labuxiere, Jr. as notary 257 Pierre Langlois to Richard Winston, August 17, 1781: concerning magistrates in Kaskaskia 258 Placard concerning office of notary by Richard Winston, August 30, 1781: commission of J. Labuxiere, Jr 260 Jacques Lasource to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, September 1, 1781: concerning the commission to J. A. Labuxiere, Jr 265 Richard Winston to Jacques Lasource, September 1, 1781: juris- diction of Court and powers of County Lieutenant 267 Warrant for Election, September 10, 1781: R. Winston orders election of magistrates 268 Election of Magistrates of Court at Kaskaskia, September 10, 1781 269 Election of Magistrates of Court at Kaskaskia, February 10,1782... 271
This page contains an image.
Page 614
(m.i ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS CHAPTER VIII. THE STRUGGLE FOR ASCENDANCY BETWEEN DODGE, WINSTON, AND THE COURT, APRIL, 1782, TO NOVEMBER, 1782. The Arrest of Richard Winston, April 29, 1782: J. Dodge orders arrest of R. Winston 272 Richard Winston's protest against his arrest, April 29, 1782: J. Dodge arrests R. Winston 274 John Dodge to Joseph Labuxiere, April 30, 1782: treachery of R. Winston 275 The Syndic's Difficulties, April 30,1782: repair of fences 276 Examination of witnesses by Joseph Labuxiere, May 2, 1782: testimony of M. Perrault, J. Williams, and H. Smith concerning R. Winston 277 John Dodge to Joseph Labuxiere, May 4, 1782: arrest of R. Winston 282 Inhabitants of Kaskaskia to the Magistrates of the Court at Kas- kaskia, May 25, 1782: oaths of strangers — maintenance of court — jail — legal procedure — sale of liquor to Indians and slaves 284 Election of Magistrates at Prairie du Rocher, June 18, 1782: election of A. Comte and G. B. Jacomini 291 Antoine Bauvais to Joseph Labuxiere, June 30, 1782: case of J. Dodge vs. R. Winston 293 Petition of American settlers at Bellefontaine to the Court of the District of Kaskaskia for some form of civil government, July 9. *78a 294 Election at Bellefontaine, August 5,1782: election of N. Smith 296 Francisco Cruzat to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 4,1782: use of passports on Mississippi River 296 Francisco Cruzat to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, August 24,1782: mission of A. Chouteau to Kaskaskia 298 Notice of sale of property of David Hicks, August 24,1782 299 Francisco Cruzat to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, September 1,1782: petition of A. Chouteau 300 Election of Magistrates at Kaskaskia, September 15, 1782: elec- tion of V. Bauvais, J. B. Bauvais, François Charleville, François Corset, L. Brazeaux, and A. Morin 301

Page 615
LIST OF DOCUMENTS 615 François Carbonneaux to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, September 15,1782: resignation of F. Carbonneaux as clerk.... 303 Richard Winston to the Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia, September 17, 1782: election of magistrates — nomination of a huissier 304 Richard Winston issues a summons to the Judges, September 17, 1782: oath to be taken by J. B. Bauvais, L. Brazeaux, F. Charleville and F. Corset 305 François Carbonneaux sells the notariat to Pierre Langlois, Sep- tember 18,1782: conditions of purchase 306 Pages from the Court Record of Kaskaskia, June 20 — November 26,1782: oath of A. Comte, G. B. Jacomini, and A. Bauvais — composition of court — lawsuit between J. B. Laffont, P. Lang- lois, and N. Lachanse 308 The Magistrates of the Court at Kaskaskia to Francisco Cruzat, October 5, 1782: lawsuit between G. Cerré, J. Datchurut and J- Page 311 CHAPTER IX. THE COMING OF THE COMMISSIONERS FROM VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER, 1782, TO MARCH, 1783. William Fleming to the Governor of Virginia, November, 1782: investigation of western affairs 313 Commission as agents to Richard Winston and François Carbon- neaux from the Inhabitants of Kaskaskia, December 3, 1782: to report disordered conditions in Illinois to Virginia 315 Proclamation of Virginia Commissioners, December 4, 1782: adjustment of claims against Virginia 317 The Virginia Commissioners to the Court at Kaskaskia, December 4,1782: adjustment of claims against Virginia 319 Commission of County-Lieutenant by Richard Winston to Timothé deMonbreun, January 18,1783: duties of county-lieutenant 320 Certificate of services of Timothé de Monbreun by John Mont- gomery, October 17, 1780: patriotism of T. de Monbreun — departure of J. Montgomery — succession of J. Rogers 322 John Williams to Timothé de Monbreun, February 15, 1781: refusal of leave of absence — maintenance for T. de Monbreun.. 323
Page 616
6i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Timothé de Monbreun to George R. Clark, March 5, 1782: main- tenance of family 324 Timothé de Monbreun to George R. Clark: request for pay 326 Richard Winston announces appointment of Timothé de Monbreun as county-lieutenant, January 21, 1783: departure of R. Win- ston — appointment of T. de Monbreun 328 Memorial of the Inhabitants of Illinois to the Commissioners of the State of Virginia, March 1, 1783: support of G. R. Clark — circulation of paper money — poverty of French — departure of G. R. Clark — financial policy of J. Todd — establishment of Court — appointment of R. Winston — administration of J. Montgomery — administration of J. Rogers — situation in Illinois 329 Memorial of the Principal Inhabitants of Illinois to the Commis- sioners of Virginia, about March, 1783: support of troops — tyranny of R. Winston — exodus of French 340 John Dodge to George R. Clark, March 3, 1783: debts of G. R. Clark to J. Dodge — memorial of inhabitants to Commissioners — foreign news 345 Richard Winston and François Bosseron, François Trottier, J. M. P. Legras, and John Williams to George R. Clark, March 30,1783: delegation to commissioners 346 The Death of Richard Winston, about 1784: services of J. Lindsay — ruin and death of R. Winston 347 CHAPTER X. THE ASCENDANCY OF JOHN DODGE, MARCH, 1783, TO AUGUST 14, 1786. Some land-grants to John Dodge and Archibald Macnabb, Jean Bte. Oillet, Lardner Clark and William Wikoff, Henry Brawney, David Debas, Nicolas Canada, James Bowie, François Charle- ville, Roonrod Reckner, Daniel Murray, Jean Choisser, André Fagot, Minard Asturgus, and John Marshal, 1782-1784 349 Philippe de Rocheblave to Governor Frederick Haldimand, Novem- ber,1783: request for certificate of services 352 Madame Alary to Aymé Comte, January 16,1784: lawsuit of Mme. Alary vs. A. Morin 353
Page 617
LIST OF DOCUMENTS 617 Memorial of Timothé de Monbreun to the House of Delegates of Virginia, November 11, 1794: services of T. de Monbreun 355 Expense Account of Timothé de Monbreun, 1783-1786 357 Fragment of Court Record written in Record-Book of the French Régime, June 3, 1784: lawsuit of D. Murray vs. W. Wikoff and L. Clark —lawsuit between J. Dodge and A. Bienvenu, Jr. 359 Timothé de Monbreun to President of Congress, June 16, 1784: cession of Northwest by Virginia — critical situation in Illinois.. 360 Memorial to Congress by the Faction of John Dodge, June 22,1784: support of troops — circulation of paper money — ruin of French — withdrawal of troops — organization of government in Illinois 362 Memorial of François Carbonneaux to Congress December 8,1784: critical situation in Illinois — organization of government 369 Congressional Committee on François Carbonneaux's Memorial, February 15,1785: organization of government in Illinois 370 Report of Committee of Congress on powers of Commissioners to be appointed, March 14, 1785: organization of government in Illinois 371 Francisco Cruzat to Timothé de Monbreun, September 8, 1785: commerce on Mississippi River 373 Timothé de Monbreun to the Governor at New Orleans, October 12, 1785: protest against unlawful act of F. Cruzat 374 John Dodge to William Clark, October 18, 1785: disasters in Illinois 375 John Edgar to George R. Clark, November 7, 1785: situation in Illinois 376 Francisco Cruzat to Jean B. Creilley and Joseph Dupuis, February 18, 1786: lawsuit of J. B. Creilley and J. Dupuis vs. N. La- chanse 377 Auguste Chouteau to Joseph Baugy, March 12, 1786: trade in peltries 379 Memorial of the French Faction to Congress, June 2,1786: organ- ization of government in Illinois 381 Gabriel Cerré's Testimony concerning Illinois, given before Con- gress, July, 1786: administration of justice under French, English, and Virginia regimes — land-grants — population of Illinois 383
Page 618
6i8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Antoine Morin toTimothéde Monbreun, July 15, 1786: lawsuit of A. Morin vs. heirs of Major Le Brun 385 Procés Verbal, August 2,1786: death of J. F. T. Carton 386 CHAPTER XI. THE FRENCH ASSERT THEMSELVES, AUGUST 14, 1786, TO AUGUST, 1787. Timothé de Monbreun's Commission to Jean B. Barbau, August 14,1786: appointment as deputy-lieutenant 390 Resolution of Congress, August 23, 1786: organization of govern- ment for Illinois 391 Petition to Mathurin Bouvet by Joseph Baugy as guardian to the minor children of Duplassy, August 25,1786: disestablishment of Court — obligations of guardian 391 Joseph Dupuis to Mathurin Bouvet, October 17, 1786: resigns guardianship of minor children of G. Aubuchon 393 James Alder to George R. Clark, October 22, 1786: arrival of G. R. Clark at Vincennes — supplies for troops 395 John Edgar to George R. Clark, October 23, 1786: hostility of French to United States — critical situation in Illinois 395 Jean B. Barbau to Pierre Langlois, January, 1787: arrival at Kas- kaskia of papers from Congress 396 Placard by John Dodge concerning Marguerite Bentley, April 21, 1787: J. Dodge forecloses mortgage on estate of T. Bentley 397 Jean B. Barbau to the Inhabitants at Kaskaskia, May 2, 1787: establishment of government at Kaskaskia 398 Report of Committee of Congress, May 7, 1787: organization of government for Vincennes and Illinois 399 Commission, given by Jean B. Barbau, to the Justices of the Peace, May 18, 1787: election of H. Smith, T. Hughes, M. Duff, A. St. G. Bauvais, F. Corset, and J. B. St. G. Bauvais — organ- ization of Court 402 to Commandant Moro at Ste. Genevieve, June 30, 1787: return of fugitive slave 402 Protest of Mathurin Bouvet against Henry Smith, July 5, 1787: H. Smith arrests M. Bouvet at instigation of F. S. M. Montigny.. 403
Page 619
LIST OF DOCUMENTS 619 Protest of Antoine Bauvais, St. Gemme Bauvais, and François Corset, July 7,1787: A. Bauvais, St. G. Bauvais, and F. Corset decline office — Americans in court — appointment of a huissier 405 Fragment of Agreement among the citizens of Kaskaskia, July 8, 1787: court at Kaskaskia to be French 408 Joseph Parker to President Arthur St. Clair, October 2, 1787: objections of French to land sale ordinance — trade in Illinois... 410 Secretary of Congress reviews Congressional action, December 28, 1788: petition to Congress from inhabitants of Kaskaskia and Cahokia — land cession of Virginia to Congress — organization of government in Illinois 411 Census of Kaskaskia, 1787 414 Census of Prairie du Rocher, 1787 419 List of Americans in Illinois, September 7,1787 421 CHAPTER XII. THE COMING OF COLONEL HARMAR AS TOLD BY A SMALL FACTION OF THE FRENCH, AUGUST, 1787. Father Pierre H. de la Valinière writes to Charles Thompson of John Dodge, August 25, 1787: tyranny of J. Dodge — J. R. Jones obtains supplies — arrival of J. Harmar and B. Tardiveau 424 Information concerning Illinois, 1787: subjection of French — tyranny of J. Dodge — departure of J. Dodge — land scheme of B. Tardiveau 429 Madame Marguerite Bentley petitions Congress, August 31, 1787: J. Dodge deprives Mme. Bentley of estate 431 Pierre Langlois to Charles Thompson, September 28, 1787: land scheme of B. Tardiveau 436 CHAPTER XIII. BARTHELEMI TARDIVEAU APPEALS TO THE CONTINENTAL CONGRESS, AUGUST 27, 1787, TO SEPTEMBER 17, 1788. Contract between the French Inhabitants and Barthelemi Tar- diveau, August 27, 1787: land to be granted for compensation 440
Page 620
62o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Contract between the Americans and Barthelemi Tardiveau, August 27, 1787: land to be granted for compensation 443 Memorial to Congress in favor of American settlers by Barthelemi Tardiveau, August 27, 1787: immigration to Illinois — land cession of Virginia to Congress — action of Congress in regard to Northwest — petition for land grants 445 Memorial to Congress on behalf of the French Inhabitants by Barthelemi Tardiveau, September 15, 1787: land sale in Northwest — immigration of Americans — petition for land grants 447 Number of Inhabitants in Illinois, 1787 449 Petition to Congress for land by Royal Flint and Joseph Parker, October 18,1787: action of Congress on petition 449 Barthelemi Tardiveau answers his accuser February 9, 1788: B. Tardiveau exonerates himself — characterization of P. H. de la Valiniere 451 Memorial to Congress on behalf of the French Inhabitants by Barthelemi Tardiveau, February 28, 1788: support of Vir- ginia troops by French — government by military — petition for land-grants — poverty of French 454 Memorial to Congress on behalf of the French Inhabitants by Barthelemi Tardiveau, February 28, 1788: landed possessions of French — petition for land and exemption from taxation 462 Committee's Report on Barthelemi Tardiveau's Memorials, Marché,1788: confirmation of land titles of French 465 Memorial to Congress in behalf of French and American Inhabi- tants of Illinois and Vincennes by Barthelemi Tardiveau, March 18,1788: delays in organization of government of North- west — land sales in Illinois — petition for land 466 George Morgan petitions Congress for land, May 1, 1788: settlement of Northwest — trade in furs — organization of govern- ment 469 The Proposals of George Morgan and Associates to Congress for the purchase of land, May 15, 1788 471 Report of a Congressional Committee on Illinois lands, no date: land-grants to French and American inhabitants of Illinois — establishment of land office 471
Page 621
LIST OF DOCUMENTS 621 Memorial to Congress on behalf of the French and American Inhabi- tants of Illinois and Vincennes by Barthelemi Tardiveau, May 19, 1788: objections to report of Congressional Committee on Illinois lands 475 Report of Committee of Congress on Memorial of George Morgan and associates, June 20, 1788: confirmation of French posses- sions — conditions of land sale — extinction of Indian tides 479 Memorial of George Morgan to Congress, June 25, 1788: objec- tions to Congressional land ordinance 483 Objections by George Morgan to land ordinance, no date: landed possessions of French — emigration of French 484 Memorial to Congress in behalf of the French Inhabitants, July 8, 1788: land-grants to French — slavery among French 485 Royal Flint to President of Congress, August 8,1788: memorial for purchase of land 489 Memorial of Royal Flint to Congress for hearing before Committee August 8,1788 489 Report of Committee on sale of land to George Morgan and the Illinois Grants, August 28,1788 490 Memorial to Congress in behalf of French and American Inhabi- tants of Illinois and Vincennes, September 17,1788: land-grant to George Morgan — landed possessions of French — slavery under Ordinance of 1787 491 Some Lost Letters concerning Barthelemi Tardiveau's mission to Congress 494 CHAPTER XIV. THE CLIMAX OF ANARCHY, AUGUST, 1787, TO MARCH 5, 179O. The end of a suit at law between John Edgar and Nicolas La- chanse, May 2,1788 496 Major John Hamtramck to General Josiah Harmar, March 28, 1789: Indian troubles — emigration of French 502 Major John Hamtramck to John Wyllys, May 27, 1789: Indian troubles — supplies for troops 504
Page 622
622 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Major John Hamtramck to General Josiah Harmar, July 29,1789: submission of Wabash Indians — sickness among troops — offers by Spain to emigrants — expedition of Kentuckians against Indians 506 Major John Hamtramck to General Josiah Harmar, August 14, 1789: expedition of Kentuckians against Indians — emigration of French — slavery under Ordinance of 1787 — trade 508 Major John Hamtramck to General Josiah Harmar, November 2, 1789: submission of Indians — petition from Kaskaskians — critical situation at Kaskaskia — need of troops and civil court — J. Edgar offers to furnish supplies — J. Hamtramck denies power to send troops and advises election of magistrates 509 Major John Hamtramck to General Josiah Harmar, November 11, 1789: need of government in Illinois 512 John Edgar to Major John Hamtramck, October 28, 1789: dis- ordered conditions at Kaskaskia — Indian troubles 513 John R. Jones to Major John Hamtramck, October 29, 1789: Indian troubles — offers of Spain to emigrants — mission of Lord Edward Fitzgerald 514 CHAPTER XV. ECCLESIASTICAL LETTERS, I780 TO 1792. Father Pierre Gibault to George R. Clark, May 10,1780: situation at Kaskaskia 518 Father Pierre Gibault to the Bishop of Quebec, April 1, 1783: labors of Father Bernard — critical situation in Illinois 520 John Edgar and Louis Tournier vs. Father Paul de St. Pierre, July, 1785: P. de St. Pierre accuses J. Edgar and L. Tournier of dishonesty — N. Lachanse denies jurisdiction in lawsuit — appeal to M. Carroll 521 Father Paul de St. Pierre to Father Louis Payet of Detroit, February 18,1786: sale of mission property at Cahokia — disordered con- ditions in Illinois 532 Father Pierre Gibault to the Bishop of Quebec, June 6, 1786: religious life at Vincennes — labors of P. Gibault — capture of
Page 623
LIST OF DOCUMENTS 623 Vincennes by G. R. Clark — disordered conditions in Illinois — jurisdiction of M. Carroll — arrival of P. de St. Pierre 534 Father Pierre H. de la Valinière to the Inhabitants of Cahokia, October 17,1786: exoneration of P. de St. Pierre 548 Father Pierre H. de la Valinière to Joseph Labuxiere, April 11,1787: accusations by P. H. de la Valinière against P. de St. Pierre.. 549 The Inhabitants of Cahokia to Father Pierre H. de la Valinière, April 22, 1787: exoneration of P. de St. Pierre — rejection of P. H. de la Valinière as vicar-general 554 Father Pierre H. de la Valinière to the Bishop of Quebec, May 26, 1787: P. H. de la Valinière requests recall — disorders in Illinois 558 Inhabitants of Cahokia to the Seminary of Quebec, June 6, 1787: disposal of property of Mission of the Holy Family — erection of church and parish-house — labors of P. de St. Pierre 560 Father Paul de St. Pierre to Barthelemi Tardiveau, September, 1787: concerning the land-grant — accusations against P. H. de la Valinière 567 Father Paul de St. Pierre to Barthelemi Tardiveau, September 17, 1787: justification of P. de St. Pierre — laws on marriage — hostility of Cahokians to P. H. de la Valinière 570 Inhabitants of Kaskaskia accuse Father Pierre H. de la Valinière, September 21,1787: tyrannical acts of P. H. de la Valinière 574 Reverend John Carroll to the Bishop of Quebec, May 5, 1788: appointment of P. H. de la Valinière — conflict of ecclesiastical jurisdictions in Northwest 581 Father Pierre Gibault to the Bishop of Quebec, May 22, 1788: exoneration of P. Gibault — request for recall 583 The Bishop of Quebec to Right Reverend John Carroll, October 3, 1788: conflict of ecclesiastical jurisdictions in the Northwest — Father P. Gibault 586 Right Reverend John Carroll to Father Pierre Gibault, January 20, 1790: inquiries concerning situation in Northwest 590 Right Reverend John Carroll to the Bishop of Quebec, Janu- ary 20, 1792: establishment of seminary at Baltimore—juris- diction of J. Carroll — land-grant to P. Gibault 593 Right Reverend John Carroll to Father Pierre Gibault, Janu- ary 23, 1792: land-grant to P. Gibault — establishment of seminary at Baltimore 597
Page 624
624 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS „ Right Reverend John Carroll to the Bishop of Quebec, May 4, 1792: grant of ecclesiastical lands in Illinois — Perinault — Burke 599 The Bishop of Quebec to Right Revend John Carroll, May 18, 1792: ecclesiastical lands in Northwest 602
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Index
Page 625
INDEX Abbot, Governor, esteemed in Illinois, 172; governor of Vincennes, 9, 9, n. 1. Abnaki Indians, called Ouabenaki by Algonquins, 35, n. 1. Address of: G. R. Clark, 80, M. de la Balme, 181, French in Illinois, 189, 189, n. 1, 199, J. Todd, 83. Agette, Marie, wife of J. B. Creilley, 414, n. 4. Alary, Bazile, resident of Kaskaskia, 415- Alary, Catherine, marries Raphael Bau- vais, 414, n. 8. Alary, Jean Baptiste, resident of Kas- kaskia, 415. Alary, Madame, lawsuit of, with A. Morin, 354, 355; petition of, to A. Comte, 353. Alder, James, letter of, to G. R. Clark, 395- . . . . . Allard, Augustin, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Allard, Jean Baptiste, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Allard, Jean Pierre, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Allinson, May, "Government of Illinois, 1790-1799" by, referred to, 423, n. 20; "A Trial Scene in Kaskaskia in 1781" by, referred to, 299, n. 1, 421, n. 2, 422, n. 12. Allison, John, resident of Illinois, 421. Allison, Joseph, resident of Illinois, 421. Almon, John, Remembrancer by, re- ferred to, 104, n. 1. Alvord, Clarence Walworth, Cahokia Records, III. Hist. Collections, vol. II., by, referred to, xv, xvi, n. 1, xxii, n. 2, xxiv, n. 2, xxvii, xxxii, n. 1, xlv, n. 4, 1, n. 1, 4, n. 1, 4, n. 3, 4, n. 5, 7, n. 1, 8, n. 3, 8, n. 4, 5, 18, n. 3, 19, n. 1, 43, n. 1, 44, n. 2, 44, n. 3. 49, n. 1, 50, n. 1, 61, n. 1, 64, n. 1, 68, n. 1, 75, n. 1, 75, n. 2, 76, n. 2, 79, n. 1, 91, n. 2, 97, n. 1, 104, n. 1, 107, n. 3, 117, n. 1, 122, n. 2, 130, n. 1, 131, n. 1, 132, n. 1, 133, n. 1, 136, n. 1, 139, n. 1, 151, n. 2, 156, n. 1, 162, n. 1, 162, n. 3, 170, n. 1, 189, n. 1, 197, n. 1, 198, n. 2, 203, n. 2, 206, n. 1, 207, n. 1, 211, n. 1, 214, n. 1, 217, n. 1, 231, n. 1, 238, n. 2, 241. n. 1, 250, n. 1, 255, n. 1, 270, n. 1, 274, n. 1, 285, n. 1, 295, n. 1, 306, n. 1, 311, n. 1, 313, n. 1, 317, n. 1, 362, n. 1, 367, n. 1,382, n. 1, 385, n. 2, 395, n. 2, 397, n. 1, 410, n. 1, 410, n. 2, 411, n. 1, 416, n. 19, 417, n. 28, 417, n. 41, 421, n. 3, 421, n. 4, 421, n. 5, 421, n. 6, 421, n. 7, 421, n. 9, 421, n. 10, 423, n. 18, 423, n. 25, 424, n. 1, 441, n. 1, 444, n. 1, 444, n. 2, 445, n. 2, 450, n. 2, 464, n. 1, 520, n. 2, 520, n. 4, 533, n. 1, 561, n. 1; Illinois in the Eighteenth Century by, referred to, 287, n. 1, 384, n. 2, 418, n. 51; The Old Kaskaskia Records by, re- ferred to, 461, n. 1. Amberson, Johnson, see Amerson, John- son. American and West Indies Papers, referred to, 4, n. 4. American Archives, referred to, 1, n. 2. A merican Catholic HistoricaiResearches, referred to, xxvi, n. 3, xxxviii, n. 1, xxxix, n. 1, xxxix, n. 2, xl, n. 1, xl, n. 2, xl, n. 3, xl, n. 4, xl, n. 5, 428, n. 5, 451. 1. 548, n. 2, 549, n. t, 554, n. 2, 567, n. 1, 570, n. 1, 574, n. 1. American Historical Review, referred to, xxii, n. 1, xxv, n. 2, xxviii, n. 1, xxviii, n. 3, xxix, n. 4, xxx, n. 4, 8, n. 3, 48, n. 2, 50, n. 2, 520, n. 1, 534, n. 1, 540, n. 1, 583, n. 1. American Philosophical Society, re- ferred to, 2, n. 2. American State Papers, Public Lands, referred to, 4, n. 2, 7, n. 1, 450, n. 1, 482, n. 1, 493, n. 1, 596, n. 1, 601, n. 1. Americans in Illinois, at: Bellefon- taine, 294; Kaskaskia, xix, xx; con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 443, 452, 453; emigration of, 503; hostility
Page 626
626 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS of Indians to, 456; intercourse of, with G. R. Clark, xix, xx, xxi, xxii, xxiii, xxiv, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 19, 24, 35, 42, 179; land grants to, 463, 464; prosecution of, 299, n. 1, 376; strength of, 19, 45, 46, 406, 408, 409, 422, 423, 445, 500; B. Tardiveau agent for, 446, 447, 451, 452, 453, 465- Amerson (Amberson), Johnson, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Anderson, John, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 443. Andrews, James, resident of Illinois, 421, n. 1. Antaya, Pelletier dit, see Pelletier. Antonelli, Cardinal Giacoma, interest of, in ecclesiastical affairs of the Northwest, 587; letter of, to J.Carroll, xxxv, n. 4. Arbiters, action of, confirmed by Court, 502; appointment of, 384, 384, n. 2, 386, 496; composition of, 40; estab- lished by H. Lord, 20; manage affairs of traders, 20; powers of, 384, 384, n. 2; settle disputes, 40, 496, 497, 498, 499, 500; used by French, 384, n. 2. Arkansas (Arcansas) Post, J. Baugy trading post at, 415, n. 9; Devilliers at, 105; invaded by Americans, 54; Lieutenant W. Linn at, xix. Armstrong, Lieutenant, arrival of, 506. Askin, John, biog. notice of, 44, n. 3; letter to, from R. M'Carty, 44. Assembly, after mass, 548, 555; at: Cahokia, 567, Kaskaskia, 80, 82, 290, 291, 459, n. 1, Prairie du Rocher, 291; called by commandant, 268, 291, by Court, 290, 291; elects magis- trates, 82, 84, 85, 265, 268, 270, 291, 302, 304, 384, 399. Asturgus, Minard, land grant to, 351. Atchison (Attcheson, Attchison), Alex- ander, resident of Illinois, 423. Atchison, George, Sr., biog. notice of, 423, n. 20; resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Atchison, George, Jr., resident of Illinois, 423. Atchison, Michel, resident of Illinois, 423- Atchurut, see Datchurut. Atino, Antoine, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Atino, J. L., signs contract with P. Tardiveau, 442. Attcheson, see Atchison. Attchison, see Atchison. Attorney-general, powers of, under French regime, 384, 384, n. 2. Aubuchon, family of, 417, n. 38. Aubuchon (Hobuchon), Gabriel, J. Dupuis, guardian for children of, 394; marries Mme. J. B. Creilley, 498; moves to Missouri, 417, n. 38; resident of Kaskaskia, 417; see Dau- buchon. Auposte (Vincennes), inhabitants of, re- quest ammunition, 215. Austin, Moses, partner of J. R. Jones, 426, n. 1. Au Vase River, land sales on, 469, 472, 480 483. Bailey (Baley), Captain William, carries letter, 151; resident of Illinois, 423; signs as arbiter, 501. Baillarjon, Domitil, presents petition of Mme. Alary, 354. Baitley Thomas, see Bentley, Thomas. Baitly, Thomas, see Bentley, Thomas. Baker, Evan, letter to G. R. Clark in care of, 150. Baldwin, memorial of R. Flint referred to, 489; report of, on memorial of G. Morgan, 490. Baley, see Bailey. Balky, William, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Balme, M. de la, see De la Balme. Baltimore, establishment of: diocese of, 594, seminary at, 594, 595, 598. Bancroft, Edward, claims authorship of View of the Title to Indiana, 2, n. 2. Barbau (Barbeau), André, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Barbau, Jean Baptiste, Sr., biog. notice of, referred to, 18, n. 3; advises open- ing of Congressional papers, 396; appointed deputy lieutenant, 390; assembly at house of, 291; attests copy of commission, 322, n. 1; calls assembly, 291; captain of militia, 18, 69, 580; certificate of election of, 86; certifies copy of will, 232; com- mandant at Prairie du Rocher, 85, 232, 291, 322, n. 1; commission; of, to justices, 402; to, from T. de Mon- breun, 390; county lieutenant, 580; elected judge for Prairie du Rocher,
Page 627
INDEX 637 85; holds election, 409; letter of, to: Kaskaskians, 398, P. Langlois, 396; member of: Court of Enquiry, 18, 26, Court of Kaskaskia, 86, 292, Wilkins' Court, 18; petition of La- briere against, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73; resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 442; unscrupulous action of, 69, 70; votes for magistrate, 292; men- tioned, 517. Barbau, Jean Baptiste, Jr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419; signs con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442; votes for judge, 80, 292. Barbau, Jean Baptiste, III, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Barbau, René Julia, wife of Jean Bte. Janis, 420, n. 64. Barbeau, see Barbau. Barber, mentioned, 314. Barker, Able, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Baron, Suzanne, marries Jacques Bar- rois, 418, n. 51. Barrel, Toussaint, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Barrois, Antoine Jean Baptiste, mar- riage of, 418, n. 51. Barrois, Benaventure, captured by English, 418, n. 51. Barrois, Catherine, wife of Jos. D. Duplasy, 18, n. 5, 418, n. 51. Barrois, Celeste, marries Michel Lamis, 418, n. 51. Barrois, François, marries Marie Anne Sauvage, 418, n. 51. Barrois, Jacques, marries Suzanne Baron, 418, n. 51. Barrois, Jean Baptiste Bertlor, biog. notice of, referred to, 287, n. 1, 418, n. 51; father-in-law of J. D. Duplasy, 18, n. 5; marries Madeleine Cardinal, 418, n. 51; Royal French notary, 18, n. 5, 287, 287, n. 1. Barrois, Joseph, mentioned, 418, n. 51. Barrois, Louis, resident of Kaskaskia, 418, 418, n. 51. Barrois, Madeleine, marries: De Port- neuf, 418, n. 51, Louis Marin, 418, n. 51. Barrois, Philippe, death of, 418, n. 51. Barrois, Therese, marries François. Lefevre Du Chouquet, 418, n. 51. Barten, John, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 443. Barutel (Barutelle), Blaise, huissier of Court, 275, 528, 529; signs: agree- ment, 409, as witness, 264, 388, 389, contract with B Tardiveau, 442; petition to: Court at Kaskaskia, 139, 289, governor of Virginia, 239, J. Todd, 94; summons P. de St. Pierre, 528; witness for T. Bentley, 222. Battist, chief of Kaskaskia Indians, 249. Baubin, mentioned, 196. Bauché dit Morancy, see Morancy. Baugy (Baugi, Bougi, Bougie, Bougy), Charles, resident of Kaskaskia, 415. Baugy, Joseph, Sr., casts vote in elec- tion, 269, 271; guardian of Duplasy children, 379, 391,392; letter to, from A. Chouteau, 379; marries Marie Duplasy, 415, n. 9; petition of, to M. Bouvet, 391; resident of Kaskas- kia, 415; trade of, 379. Baugy, Joseph, Jr., marries Marie Bauvais, 415, n. 9; resident of Kas- kaskia, 415. Baugy, Joseph (of Beauport, Canada), marries Marie Louise Duplasy, 418, n. 51. Baugy, Vital, son of Jos. Baugy, 415, n. 9. Bauvais dit St. Jeme or St. Gemme (Bauvay, Beauvais, Beauvaix), Alexis, contribution of, to troops, 116; land owner, 349; marries Therese Danis, 414, n. 6, 414, n. 8; resident of Kaskaskia, 418. Bauvais, Antoine, Sr., appointed Jus- tice of the Peace, 402; asks names of witnesses vs. R. Winston, 293; casts vote in election, 269; confirms action of arbiters, 502; contribution of, to troops, 116; declines office, 407; deprived of office, 406; election of, 107, 270, n. 1; finds placard of R. Winston, 264; justice of the peace, 273, 291, 296, 308, 402; letter of, to J. Labuxiere, 293; magistrate of Kaskaskia, 309, 405, 406; marries Françoise Guielle, 414, n. 8; order of, concerning papers of R. Winston, 274; petition to, from M. Farqueson, 273; president of Court, 502; protest of, to Kaskaskians, 405; signs: con- tract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, contract with B. Tardiveau, 443, memorial to Congress, 368, peti- tion to Court of Kaskaskia, 139, petition to governor of Virginia, 239; summons Court at Kaskaskia, 273; supporter of J. Dodge, 368; resident
Page 628
628 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS of Kaskaskia, 415, 417; takes oath as judge, 107. Bauvais, Antoine, Jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 417; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Bauvais, Barthy, resident of Kaskaskia, 415- Bauvais, Charles, resident of New Orleans, 414, n. 8, 415, n. 8. Bauvais, Jacques, family of, 414, n. 8. Bauvais, Jean Baptiste, marries Louise LaCroix, 414, n. 8; resident of Kas- kaskia, 414. Bauvais, Jean Baptiste St. Gemme, acts as witness, 528; antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; appointed justice of the peace, 402; candidate for office, 269, 301, 302; casts vote in election, 269, 271, 301; commission of, 402; contribution of, to: M. De la Balme, 193, troops, 116; copy of letter sent to, 556, 557; declines office, 406; deprived of office, 406; election of, 302; magistrate of Court, 209, 213, 223, 302, 310, 405, 406; marries Marie Therese de Monbreun, 414, n. 8; protest of, to Kaskaskians, 405; signs: accusations against P. H. de la Valinière, 580, 581, contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442, 443, memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, petition to governor of Virginia, 239, petition to J. Todd, 93; sum- moned to take oath, 305, 306, n. 1; B. Tardiveau: at home of, 569, 573, describes mission to, 494. Bauvais, Jerome, resident of Kaskaskia, 418. Bauvais, Joseph, resident of Kaskas- kia, 416, 417. Bauvais, Joseph Marie, resident of Kaskaskia, 415. Bauvais, Louis, resident of Kaskaskia, 417. Bauvais, Marguerite, wife of T. Bent- ley, xvii, 12, n. 1, 415, n. 8; see Bentley, Marguerite. Bauvais, Marie Jeanne, marries René Dupuis, 414, n. 8. Bauvais, Maire Louise, marries Paul Desruisseaux, 414, n. 8. Bauvais, Raphael, Sr., settles at Kas- kaskia, 414, n. 8. Bauvais, Raphael, land owned by, 349, 350, 351; marries Catherine Alary, 414, n. 8; resident of: Kaskaskia, 415, New Orleans, 415, n. 8. Bauvais, St. Gemme, see Bauvais Jean Bte. St. Gemme. Bauvais, Therese, marries Antoine Chenier, 414, n. 8, 417, n. aç. Bauvais, Vital, Sr., antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; baptism of child of, 575; candidate for office, 269, 301; casts vote in election, 269, 271, 301; contribution of, to troops, 116; copy of letter sent to, 556, 557; election of, 269, 270, 302, 306, n. 1; magistrate, 302, 306, n. 1, 309, 310, 443; oath of, 270; signs: accusations against P. H. de la Valinière, 580, 581, agreement, 409, contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442, 443, memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344, petition to governor of Virginia, 239; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; mentioned, 414, n. 8. Bauvais, Vital, jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 415. Baynton, Wharton, and Morgan, forma- tion of firm of, 3, n. 1; P. Hanson, clerk for, 43, n. 1; P. Kennedy, agent, for, 2, n. 1: land speculations of, 18, n. 2; J. Rumsey, clerk for, 00, n. 1. Bazile, signs petition to Court at Kas- kaskia, 139. Beans, trade in, 118. Beaudrau, Marie Catherine, marries Etienne Langlois, 416, n. 21. Beaumer, reputation of, 108; see Bomer. Beauvais, see Bauvais. Beaver, traffic in, 5, 10, 15, 21, 41; used as currency, 10, 15. Beckley, John, Life of S. Kenton by, referred to, 348, n. 1. Beckley, Captain William, biog. notice of, 348, n. 1; describes service of Jos. Lindsay, 347, 348; letter of, to , 347- Beef, furnished to Indians, 358; trade in, 132. Belcour, Lebrun dit, see Lebrun. Beletre, purchases gunpowder, 11. Belew, Timothy, resident of Illinois, 421. Bellefontaine, American settlement at, 125, 125, n. 2, 294; election of magis- trates at, 296; government of, 294, 295; oath of inhabitants of, 295; petition of inhabitants of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 294.
Page 629
INDEX 629 Bellerose, murder by, 543. Benson, report of, on government of Illinois, 370. Bentley, Marguerite Bauvais, deprived of estate, 425, 431, 433, 435; dispute of, with: T. Bentley, 434, J. Dodge, 397, 397, 3, 43°. 43L 433. 433, 434, 435; dowry of, 435; marriage of, 415, n. 8, 435; misconduct of, 397, 397, n. 2; petition of, to Congress, 431; placard of J. Dodge concerning, 397, 432; share of, in estate, 397, 397, n. 2. Bentley (Baitley, Baitly, Bingtelay), Thomas, biog. notice of, xvii; abuses F. Carbonneaux, 37, 38; accused of treachery, 9, 14, 16, 17, n. 2; accuses P. de Rocheblave of exciting Indians, 39; advice to, in regard to release, 77; antagonism to, 202, 203, 205; appeals to government of Virginia, 223, 225; arrest of, xxi, 8, n. 2, 17, 17, n. 2, 41, 108; asks D. Murray to exonerate him, 9; at: Kaskaskia, xvii, 196, Montreal, 109, 136, Ouyah, 172, Pensacola, 169, Sullivans Station, 249, Vincennes, 168; boat of: on Ohio River, xxiv, 35, pillaged by Indians, 39; J. Bowman urges release of, 73, 74; certificate concerning, of: D. Murray, 226, R. Winston, 227; changes in petition of, 4, n. 1; commercial relations of, with: B. Lachapelle, 15, P. de Rocheblave, 14, 37, Viviat, 15; complaints: against, 17, 242, of, against P. de Rocheblave, 14, 15, 16, R. Winston, 218; conversa- tion of, with Charleville, 23; death of, 432; denies correspondence with Americans, 12, 13, 14, 42, 169; de- parture of, for: Michillimackinac, 17, n. 2; Virginia, 225, 249, 249, n. 1. J. Dodge administrator for, 377; n. 2, 398; double dealings of, xviii, xxii, 172, 173; effect on, of imprison- ment, 73, 74; enquires concerning spies, xxiii, 8; escape of, 135, 168, 171; estate of, 397, 397, n. 2, 398; fined for selling liquor to Indians, 14; J. Girault urges release of, 74; im- prisonment of, xvii, xxii, 8, 9, 73, 73, n. 2, 74, 76, 135, 202, 397, n. 2; Indians ask permission to trade with, 24, 29; intercourse of, with: Ameri- cans, xix, xx, xxi, xxii, xxiii, xxiv, 12, 12, n. 4, 13, 14, 24, 35, 42, 179, G. R. Clark, xviii, 8, n. 3, 73, n. 2, Indians, 170; interest of American officers in, xxi, 73, 73, n. 2, 74; justice: demanded for, 211, 236, denied to, 211, 220, 222, 224; land owned by, 349; lawsuit of, with: R. M'Carty, 203, n. 2, 221, P. Prevost, 221; letter of, to: G. R. Clark, 169, A. S. De Peyster, 108, 168, 172, enemies, 202, F. Haldimand, 135, 171, D. Murray, 6; 8; letter to, from: J. Bradley, 76, A. S. De Peyster, 108, D. Murray, 6; losses of, for American cause, xx; marries Marguerite Bau- vais, xvii, 12, n. 1, 16, 435; meets W. Linn, xix, xix, n. 2, xx, xxi, xxii; mistreatment of, by: British, xx, G. Cerré, 203, P. de Rocheblave, 10, 14, 15, 16, 42, 202; mistreats Kas- kaskians, 242; misunderstanding of, with wife, 434; money owed to, 221, 222, 225; mortgage of, 10; D. Murray agent for, 4; neutrality of, 9, 135; notifies Court of his appeal to Vir- ginia, 225; oath required of, 219, 220, 223, 224, 226, 227, 230, 230, n. 1, 236; patriotism of, xx, 171; payment by, 345; petition of: for land, 42, to G. Carleton, 41, Virginia House of Delegates, xx; promised gunpowder by G. R. Clark, 170; protest of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 220, 224; refuses to take oath, 220; relations of, with G. R. Clark, xxii, xxiii, xxiv; release of, 76, 77; reports to G. R. Clark of M. de la Balme, 173; return of, to Illinois, 178, 196; J. Rogers friend of, xxiv; ruin of, 171, 173, 202, 203; secures release of P. Dejean, 104, n. 4, 168; services of, xxi; slaves of, 397; stirs up discord, 196; support of, by: G. R. Clark, xxv, French, 7; suspected by: R. George, 214, n. 1, P. de Rocheblave, xviii, 17, n. 2; takes oath, 211, 221, 224; testimony of P. de Rocheblave on, xxi, 179; trade of, xvii, 10, 11, 13. 21. 24, 3°. 3i, 32. 33. 34, 35. 36, 41, 42, 95, 171, 172, 173; urges English occupation of Illinois, 172; visits Virginia, xxv, 249; wife of, 203, 203, n. 1, 205, 397, 397, n. 2, 415, n. 8, 430, 431. Bernard, Father, see Limpach, Bernard de. Bethel Baptist Church, establishment of, 445, n. 1. Bienvenu (Bienvenue, Bienvenus), dit Delisle (Delille), see Delisle.
Page 630
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Bigger, Moses, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Biggs, George, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Biggs, Thomas, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Biggs, William, biog. notice of, referred to, 421, n. 11; resident of Illinois, 421; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Bingtelay, Thomas.see Bentley .Thomas. Biron, H., signs letter to Seminary of Quebec, 566, 567. "Black Code," asked for by Kaskas- kians, 288; French agree to enforce, 91, 93; in G. R. Clark's proclama- tion, 65-68; see slaves. Blanier, Lasa, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Blay, Antoine, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Blay, Charles, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Blay, Joseph, Sr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420; signs memorial to Congress, 367; supporter of J. Dodge, 367, n.i; votes for judge, 86. Blay, Joseph, Jr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Blay, Louis, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Blin, Pierre, mentioned, 38. Bloomfield, Joseph, petition of, to Con- gress, 469. Bloiiin, Daniel, Sr., signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, petition to governor of Virginia, 239; land owned by, 349, 350. Bloiiin, [Daniel ?], Jr., signs commission, 317; supports R. Winston, 317, n. 1. Board of Commissioners of Virginia, at Falls of Ohio, 318, 328, 346; appoint- ment of, 319, 328; composition of, 313. 314. 318; delegation sent to, 346; letter of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 319, 330, Vincennes, 319; memorial to, from inhabitants of Illinois, 319, 329, 340; proclamation of, 317, 318; re- port of, on T. de Monbreun, 327, n. 1. Board of Treasury, petition of G. Morgan referred to, 470, 471; pub- lic land controlled by, 472, 478, 480, 481, 483, 484, 490. Boisbriant, land grants by, 416, n. 21, 463- Boisdoré, Louis, lawsuit of, vs. Proveau, 95, 96, 97; signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 97. Bolduc, buys negro, 377. Bolen (Bolon), Hippolite, Indian inter- preter, 24; testimony of, in Court of Enquiry, xix., n. 2, 24, 34. Bolton, Colonel, mentioned, 105. Bomer [Beaumer?], Louis, biog. notice of, 9, n. 2; clerk of T. Bentley, 9, n. 2, 15< 3°, 33, 33: makes accusations against T. Bentley, 9; notes of, 10; reputation of, 108. Bond, of R. Winston as sheriff, 87. Bond, Shadrach, biog. notice of, 421, n. 2; land grant to, 351; resident of Illinois, 421; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 444, memorial to Congress, 368; supporter of J. Dodge, 368, n 1. Bond Brook, N. J., winter quarters of G. Washington, 75. Bonvouloir, wounded, 585. Boonsborough, supplies at, 75. Bordeaux, exchange of, 123. Borks, Samuel, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Bosseron [Bosrons, Kazroe(?)], Major François, agent of Vincennes, 346. n. 1; letter of, to G. R. Clark, 346; order to, from G. R. Clark, 159; mentioned, 151. Boston, proclamation of King of France in, 120. Boucher, see De Monbreun. Bougie, see Baugy. Bounty money, land given instead of, 145- Bouvet dit Lachambre, Doctor Jean, comes to Canada, 419, n. 54. Bouvet, Mathurin, biog. notice of, 419, n. 54; arrest of, 403; law-suit of, with F. St. M. Montigny, 403, 404; magistrate, 391, 393, 403; marries Marie Josephte Soumande, 419, n, 54; orders appointment of guardian, 394; petition to, from J. Baugy, 391, 394, J. Dupuis, 393, 394; protest of, vs. H. Smith, 403; resident of Kas- kaskia, 419. Bowie, James, land grant to, 350. Bowman, messenger for J. Todd, 75, 128. Bowman, Colonel John, commander at Harrodsburg, 347; offers ser- vices, 76; provides bacon for troops, 63- . . Bowman, Major Joseph, letter of, to R. B. Lemoult, xxi., 73; urges re- lease of T. Bentley, 73, 74.
Page 631
INDEX 631 Boyd, John, signs commission, 317; supports R. Winston, 317, n. 1. Boyd, John B., makes copy of letter, 348, 348, n. 2. Boyle, Philip, letter to, from J. Dodge, 104; merchant at Sandusky, 105. Bradford, Captain, arriva1 of, at Vin- cennes, 502. Bradley, John, advice of, to T. Bentley, 77; letter of, to T. Bentley, 76. Bradley, Sam, signs as witness, 502. Brashers (Brashars, Brashear, Brash- ears, Breshers), Beltashazer, resident of Illinois, 422. Brashers, Captain Tobias, goes to Fort Jefferson, 345; marries Miss Brookes, l95, 197, resident of Illinois, 422; sells horse to Croucher, 252; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 445, memorial toCongress, 368; supporter of J. Dodge, 368, n. 1. Braso, see Brazeaux. Brawney, land grant to, 350. Brazeaux (Braseau, Braso, Brazaux, Brazeau, Brazeaue), Augustin, resi- dent of Kaskaskia, 416. Brazeaux, Françoise, wife of Jean Bte. Charleville, 19, n. 1. Brazeaux, Joseph, Sr., biog. notice of, 19, n. 1; captain of militia, 19; mem- ber of Court of Enquiry, 19, 26. Brazeaux, Madame [Joseph Sr.?] con- tribution of, to troops, 116. Brazeaux, Joseph, Jr., contribution of, to troops, 116; resident of Kaskas- kia, 416. Brazeaux, Louis, Sr., biog. notice of, 19, n. 1; antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; candidate for office, 269, 301, 302; casts vote in election, 269, 301; contribution of, to M. de la Balme, 193; elected magistrate, 302; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs: ac- cusation against P. H. de la Valiniere, 580, 581, contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, 443, memorial to Virginia commission, 344, petition to Court of Kaskaskia, 139, 289, peti- tion to governor of Virginia, 239; summoned to take oath, 305, 306. Brazeaux, Louis, Jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 416. Brearley, David, petition of, to Congress, 469. Brian, Mrs., prisoner at Delaware Town, 503. Briand, Bishop, characterization of P. H. de la Valiniere by, xxxix, xl; let- ter to, from Montgolfier, xxxix. Brisetout, Antoine, resident of Kas- kaskia, 417. Brisetout, Nicolas, resident of Kaskas- kia, 417. Broadhead, Colonel, commander at Fort Pitt, 210. Brookes, departure of, 195, 197. Brown, William, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Brunet, Marie Louise, marries Claude Chenier, 417, n. 29. Bruyat, see Buyat. Bryent, James, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Buart, Louis, votes for judge, 86. Buckhanan, James, financial difficul- ties of, 125, 126. Burke, desires to enter Baltimore dio- cese, 600, 601. Burton, C. M., possessor of J. Askin papers, 44, n. 3. Bushnell, Eusebius, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Bushnell, Ezra, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Busk, arrests M. Bouvet, 403. Buyat (Buiat, Buiate, Bruyat), Antoine, Sr., casts vote in election, 269; candidate for office, 301; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, memorial to Congress, 367, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 290, petition to governor of Virginia, 239; sup- ports J. Dodge, 367, n. 1. Buyat, Antoine, Jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 416. Buyat, Antoine, III., resident of Kas- kaskia, 416. Buyat, Aymé, resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, petition to gov- ernor of Virginia, 239. Buyat, Claude, resident of Kaskaskia, 418. Buyat, Louis, Sr., resident of Kaskas- kia, 416; signs: agreement, 409, petition to governor of Virginia, 239- Buyat, Louis, Jr., resident of Kaskas- kia, 416. Buyat, Pierre, resident of Kaskaskia, 418.
Page 632
632 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Buyen [?] Antoine, candidate for office, 271. Byron, James, signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia. 395. Byrun, Benjamin, biog. notice of, 422, n. 12; resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 443. Byrun, John, resident of Illinois, 422. Byrun, Joseph, resident of Illinois, 422. Cadron, Charles, captain of militia, 18; marries Genevieve Hemet, 26, n. 1; member of Court of Enquiry, 18, 26; signs testimony, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33. 34. 36, 38, 39. 40. Cadron, Pierre, father of Chas. Cadron, 26, n. 1. Caho, Cahoe, see Cahokia. Cahokia (Caho, Cahoe, Cahos, Cashout, Cohos, Kahokias, Kaokias, Kohos), assembly at, 567; attitude of in- habitants of, towards J. Carroll, 572; building at, of: church, xxxvii, xxxvii, n. 1, 564, rectory, 571; de- molition of church at, 563; Father P. de St. Pierre at, xxxvii, 524, n. 1, 566; disorders in, 447, 563, 568, 580; elections in, 268; P. Gibault obtains ecclesiastical property at, 596, n. 1.; charter of, 463, 464; commons in, 77; communication of, with; Kas- kaskia, 358, St. Louis, 358; court at, 68, n. i, 117, n. 1, 250, n. 1, 382, n. 1, 421, n. 7., Father B. de Limpach at, 20, 520, n. 3; grant of, 463; in- abitants of: address M. de la Balme, 189, n. 1, confide in P. de St. Pierre, 555, furnish supplies, 105, grant power of attorney to P. Prevost, 241, n. 1, join M. de la Balme, 196, make contract with B. Tardiveau, 441, n. 1, oppose P. H. de la Vali- nière, xliv, 555, 556, petition Con- gress, 410, n. 2, 411, 447, 454, 462, 465, 466, 471, 477, 481, 482, 482, n. 1, receive land grant, 481, send Lebrun to Congress, 385, n. 2; letter of inhabitants of, to Seminary of Quebec, 560; letter to inhabitants of, from: R. George, 214, n.i; P. H. de la Valinière, xliv, 548, 549, 554; militia of, 19; mission at, 561, 562, 5^3, 567; J. Montgomery applies to, 139; notice of Board of Commis- sioners in, 319; population of, 449, 479; property of Seminary of Quebec in, 599; records of, xv, 250, n. 1; sale of mission at, 561, 563; size of, 463; trade of, with New Orleans, 507; trading post at, 13, 382, 382, n- i,395. 411- Cahokia Indians, Patoka chief of, 39. Cahos, see Cahokia. Caillot, dit Lachanse, see Lachanse. Calendar of Franklin Papers, referred to, 2, n. 2. Calendar of Virginia State Papers, re- ferred to, xx, n. 2, xxv, n. 1, 2, n. 2, 7, n. 1,128, n. 1, 195, n. 1, 314, n. 1, 215, n. 1, 248, n. 1, 349. n. 1, 346, n, 1. Cameron, Angus, signs court record, 60. Camouns, Jean Baptiste, votes for magistrate, 292. Camp, Icabod, J. Dodge seizes goods of, 433- Camp, Miss, marriage of, to Reihl, 570. Camp Jefferson, see Fort Jefferson. Campbell (Campbel, Campble), Colonel Arthur, money entrusted to, 125. Campbell, General, position of, in Georgia, 75. Canada (Kannady), attitude of, to- wards American Revolution, 56, 57: constitution of, 601; invited to join American cause, 64, 121; rumored attack on, 173. Canada, Francois Enau dit, resident of Kaskaskia, 416. Canada, Nicolas, land grant to, 350; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs: commission, 317, contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442, memo- rial to Congress, 367, petition to governor of Virginia, 240; supporter of: J. Dodge, 367, n. 1, R. Winston, 317, n. 1. Canadian archives, referred to, 11, n. 1, 90, n. 1. Cananville, surname of Soumande fam- ily, 417, n. 36. Carbonneaux (Carbonau, Carboneaux, Carbeneaux, Carbonnaux), Francois, biog. notice of, 6, n. 3; abused by T. Bentley, 37, 38; agent for French, 369, 370; certifies copy of will, 232; clerk of Court at Kaskaskia, 68, 73, 79, 87, 88, 99, 100, 101, i11, 113, 119, 124, 135, 136, n. 1, 222, 225, 232, 240, 244, 291, 303, 306; commission of, as agent, 315; complaint of J. La- buxiere against, 257; debtor to C. Gratiot, 298; elected clerk, 6, n. 3, 5 h
Page 633
INDEX 633 7,n.; failure of, in Virginia, 369, n. 1; fee of, 100, 101; gives notice of public sale, 299; jealousy of, 258; letter of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 303; makes copies of documents, 136, n. 1; memorial of, to Congress, 369, 370, 413; mission of, to Virginia, 319, n, 1, 369, n. 1; notary, 6, n. 3, 7, n., 299, 306; oath of, as clerk, 108; placard of R. Winston brought to office of, 264; presents memorial to Congress, 413; records petition, 240, 291; refuses to recognize petition of T. Bentley, 222; resignation of, 303; sells notariat, 306; signs: as witness, 264, 527, contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244; supporter of R. Winston, 343; testimony of: 346, n. 1, in Court of Enquiry, 25, 36. Cardin, mentioned, 151. Cardinal, Madeleine, marries Jean Bte. Bertlor Barrois, 418, n. 51. Carleton (Carlton), Governor Guy, complaints against P. de Rocheblave sent to, 10, 20, 26; government of, 57; letter to, from P. de Rocheblave, 41; petition to, from: T. Bentley, 41, D. Murray, 4; titles of, 41. Carney, mentioned, 376. Carrington, report of, on: government of Northwest, 399, n. 1, memorial of G. Morgan, 479. Carroll (Carrol), Bishop John, ap- pointed prefect apostolic, xxxiv, 547, 569, 572; appointment by, of: P. de St. Pierre, xxxv, 587, P. H. de la Valiniere, xlii, 581, J. Ledru, 1, 510; attitude towards, of inhab- itants of Cahokia, 572; character of, 589; enquires concerning: P. H. de la Valiniere, 581, Northwest, 592,597, 598, 599, 600, 601, 602; jurisdiction of, xxxi, xxxv, xxxv, n. 4, 582, 587, 588, 595, 596; interest of, in North- west, xxxv, 596, 597, 598, 599. 601, 602; letter of, to: Cardinal G. Antonelli, xxxv, Bishop of Quebec, 581, 581, n. 1, 586, 593, 599. P. Gibault, 590, 597; letter to, from: Bishop of Quebec, 586, 602, P. de St. Pierre, xxxvi, J. Edgar, 531, P. Gibault, 590, 590, n. 1, L. Tournier, 531; memorial of, to G. Washington, 599- Cartabona, see de Cartabona. Carter, C. E., British Régime in Illinois by, referred to, 3, n. 1,18, n. 2,384,^ 2. Carton, Jacques Felix Theodore, death of, 387, 388, 569. Cascachias, see Kaskaskia. Cascakia, see Kaskaskia. Casgrain, P. B., mentioned, 230, n. 2. Cashout, see Cahokia. Caskakea, see Kaskaskia. Caskaskia, Caskaskias, see Kaskaskia. Casselman, Salvenes, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 443. Casterland, Peter, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tar- diveau, 444. Celles, see De Celles. Census, made for B. Tardiveau, 414, n. 1; of: Americans in Illinois, 421, Kaskaskia, 414, Prairie du Rocher, 419. Céres, Gabriel, see Cerré, Gabriel. Cerré (Ceres, Cerrée), Gabriel, biog. notice of, referred to, 49, n, 1; ab- sence of, from Kaskaskia, 48; antagonism of, to: Americans, 49, 49, n. 1, 50, n. 1, T. Bentley, 8, 168, 171, 203; asks passport from G. R. Clark, 49; certificate of election of, 86, 87; contribution of, to troops, 116; describes situation in Illinois, 383, 384, 385; executor for L. Viviat, 49, 123, 124; ignorance of, of judiciary, 384, n. 2; land grant to, 78; law-suit of, 123; letter of, to G. R. Clark, 48, 102; letter to, from Mon- forton, 53; magistrate, 86, 101, in, 113, 134; petition of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 311; proclamation of, prohibiting exports, 101; rents forge to troops, 103; sells land to S. Trigg, 78, 79; services of, for state, 102; signs petition to J. Todd, 93; sub- mission of, to G. R. Clark, 48, 49, n. 1; supports British cause, 49, n, 1, 50, n. 1; testimony of, before Con- gress, 383; tools of, carried off by soldiers, 103, 104; trade of, 48; warrant to, for special session of Court, 106. Cerré, Mme. Gabriel, gives flag to P. de Rocheblave, 24; testimony of, in Court of Enquiry, 24, 29. Certificate, by: J. Girault of appoint- ment, 94, J. Montgomery of services of T. de Monbreun, 322, 323, 325, 326, D. Murray concerning T. Bentley, 226, J. Todd of election, 86, 87, R. Winston concerning T. Bentley, 227.
Page 634
634 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Chalfin, Amos, resident of Illinois, 423. Chalfin, Isaac, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444- Chalfin, William, resident of Illinois, 423. Chamberlain (Chamberlan), Louis Ger- vais, reports shooting, 387; signs con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Chapelle, see Lachapelle. Charleston, captured by English, 158; P. H. de la Valinière projects mis- sion at, 560. Charleville (Charloveele), Chauvin dit, received money from J. Buckhanan, 126; runaway slave of, 150; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442; sympathy of, with Americans,8,8, n.i; trade of, with New Orleans, 7. Charleville, Charles, casts vote in election,26o, 302 ; certificate of election of, 86; contribution of, to troops, 105, 116; executor for R. M'Carty, 230; magistrate, 86, 209, 213, 223, prominence of, 414, n. 2; resident of Kaskaskia, 417; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 289, petition to governor of Virginia, 239, petition of, to J. Todd, 94. Charleville, François, appointment sent to, 98; candidate for office, 269, 301; casts vote in election, 269, 271; elec- tion of, 302; land grant to, 350, 351; prominence of, 414, n. 2; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, 244, petition to Court at Kas- kaskia, 289, petition to governor of Virginia, 239; summoned to take oath, 305, 306 Charleville, Jean, marries Agnes La Croix, 414, n. 2. Charleville, Jean Baptiste, Sr., contri- bution of, to troops, 116; death of, 414, n. 2; election of, 107, 270, 270, n. 1; family of, 414, n. 2; magistrate, 73, 270; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, petition to governor of Virginia, 239; suit of, before Court, i11; takes oath as judge, 107, 270. Charleville, Jean Baptiste, Jr., casts vote in election, 269; resident of Kaskaskia, 414; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, petition to governor of Virginia, 239. Charleville, Joseph, I., biog. notice of, 414, n. 2; testimony of, in Court of Enquiry, 23, 25, 26, 27. Charleville, Joseph, II., resident of Kaskaskia, 416. Charleville, Joseph, III., resident of Kaskaskia, 414. Charleville, Louis, Sr., resident of Kaskaskia, 414. Charleville, Louis, Jr., resident of Kaskaskia, 416. Chatel, L., signs letter to: P. H. de la Valinière, 557, Seminary of Quebec, 566, 567. Chauanon River.see Cumberland River. Chaufour, see Duchaufour. Chauvin, dit Charleville, see Charle- ville. Cheney, William, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Chenier (Cheyne, Cheynie), candidate for office, 302; votes in election, 301. Chenier, Antoine, hostility of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; marries Therese Bauvais, 414, n. 8, 417, n. 29; resident of Kaskaskia, 417, signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, memorial to Virginia commis- sioners, 344. Chenier, Claude, marries Marie Louise Brunet, 417, n. 29. Chenier, Francois, resident of Kaskas- kia, 417. Chenier, Jacques, Sr., marries Therese Archange Boucher de Monbreun, 417, n. 29; resident of Kaskaskia, 417; signs: agreement, 409, con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442, memo- rial to Congress, 367, petition to governor of Virginia, 240; supporter of J. Dodge, 367. Chenier, Jacques, Jr., resident of Kaskaskia, 417. Chenier, Marie Louise, marries Joseph Poupart, 417, n. 29. Cherokee Indians, land cessions by, 144; treaty with, 356. Cherokee River, Fort Missiac on, 109. Chevalier (Chevallier), André, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Chevalier, Joseph, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Chevalier, Louis, mentioned by A. S. De Peyster in letter, 46, 46, n. 1. Chevalier, Marie Charlotte, marries Antoine Deshêtres, 419, n. 35. Chevalier, Pierre, resident of Prairie du
This page contains an image.
Page 635
INDEX 635 Rocher, 420; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Cheyne, see Chenier. Cheynie, see Chenier. Chicago (Chiteagou), P. de Rocheblave at, 35 Chicago Historical Society, Collections of, referred to, 4, n. 4, 4, n. 5, 50, n. 1, 101, n. 1,106, n. 1,107, n. 2,128, n. 1, 195, n. 1, 274, n. 1, 334, n. 1, 409, n. 1, 426, n. 1, 482, n. 1; Publications of, referred to, 461, n. 1. Chickasaw Indians, accompanied by Captain George, 314; hostility of, 90; Kickapoo Indians urged against. 147; J. de St. German interpreter to, 156. Chisholm, Hugh Mc D., signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Chiteagou, see Chicago. Choctaw Indians, Kickapoo Indians urged against, 147; Jean de St. Germain interpreter to, 156. Choisser (Choiser, Choisseul?), Jean, antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; land grant to, 351; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344, petition to gov- ernor of, Virginia, 239. Choisseul [Choisser?,] Jean, signs con- tract with R. M'Carty and P. Pre- vost, 243. Choquet, Marie Elizabeth, marries Bazile Lachapelle, 415, n. 14. Chouquet, see Lefevre. Chouteau, Auguste, collects money for C. Gratiot, 298; letter of, to J. Baugy, 379; petition of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 300; trade of, 379, 380; states attitude of Spaniards, 516. Christian, Anne, wife of Wm. Fleming, 109, n. 1. Christian, Colonel, mentioned, 11o. Church, assembly at, 268, 276, 299, 54^, 555; maintenance of, 385, 492; marquilliers of, 561, 567; preserva- tion of order in, 288; used as bulletin board, 16, 68, 264, 265, 288, 398, 406, 549- Cincaid, James, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Clark, Francis, biog. references to, 423, n. 25; resident of Illinois, 423. Clark (Clarke), Colonel George Rogers, absence of, on campaign, 71; acquires land from S. Trigg, 79; advised to build fort: at Kaskaskia, 147, on Ohio River, 144; aided by: French, 8°. 233, 329, 331. 427, 454. W. Harrod 75, n. 3, D. Pentecost, 362, n. 1, J. Todd, 63; appointment by, of: N. Janis, 18, n. 4, P. Kennedy, 2, n. 1; appreciates position at Kaskaskia, xxv; arrival of, at Kaskaskia, 48, 5°. 233. 33°. 331. 34i, 363. 454; asked to detain commissioners, 346; at: Callines, 376, Falls of the Ohio, "3. 143, 346. 347, 377, F°rt Nelson, 346, Fort Pitt, 326, Iron Mines, 519, Lincoln, 346, Vincennes, 104,106,395; attempts to raise troops, 457; attitude of, towards French, 80, 81, 209; atti- tude towards, of: T. de Monbreun, 325; French, 518, R. Winston, 280; bill drawn on, 130; bondsman for R. Winston, 87, 88; capture by, of: Illinois, 6, n. 3, 347, Kaskaskia, xxiv, 4, n. 2,49, n. 1, Si, 51, n. 1, 52,52, n.; Vincennes, xxvi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, 16, n. 1, 333, 541, 585; clothing of soldiers of, 125, 126; contributions to, 116; court martial held by, 458; critical situation of, xxv, 62; departure of, from Fort Jef- ferson, 345; distressed conditions of soliders of, 133; erects court at Caho- kia, 68, n. 1; expects re-enforcements, 109; expedition of, against: Detroit 102, 102, n. 1, 109, 130, 148, Indians, 160, 170, 395, n. 1,426, n. 2,457, 458, 458, n. 1; forbids sale of liquor to slaves, 65; forces of 11o, 127; J. Girault secretary of, xxi; government of Illinois by, 65, 68, 72, 11o, 113, 114, 115, 116, 457; historial value of Memoirs of, xxviii, xxxi; hostility to, of: J. Dodge, 426, J. Harmar, 427; ignorance of French of, xxvii; instructions of, to J. B. Laffont, xxviii, Shelby; instructions to,from P. Henry, 6o;joined by J. Rogers with re-enforce- ments, 149; knowledge of, of Kas- kaskia, xxii, xxiii; lacks forces, 109; leaves J. Montgomery in command, 2.33. 333. 335. 336; troops at Fort Clark, 206, 207; leniency of, 73, 73, n. 3, 74; letters of exchange of, 98, 101; letter of, to: , 215, n. 1, J. Dodge, 151, 159, J. Edgar, 395, Helm, 52, T. Jefferson, 144, Kas- kaskians, 285, 285, n. 1, G. Mason, xxvii, 52, n., 52, n. 1, 73, n. 3, J. Montgomery, 126; letter to, from: J.
Page 636
636 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Alder, 395, T. Bentley, 169, F. Bosseron, 346, G. Cerré, 48, 102, T. de Monbreun, 324, 326, J. Dodge, 151. 345. J- Edgar, 395, Floyd, 249, R. George, 214, n. 1, P. Gibault, 518, P. Henry, 63, T. Jefferson, 143, 144, 219, Kaskaskians, 215, J. B. Laffont, xxx, xxxi, n. 1, 50, J. M. P. Legràs, 346, J. Montgomery, 125, 126, 133, 149, W. Shannon, 248, J. Todd, 75,97, 106, 127, 128, 158, F. Trottier, 346, J. Williams, 122, 346, R. Winston, 346; Memoirs of, referred to, xxvi, n. 1, xxvii, n. 2, xxviii, 8, n. 3, 49, n. 1; memorial of B. Tardiveau referred to, 494; mistreatment of French by, 457, 458; notified of J. Todd's appointment, 61; ordered to: erect posts, 61, invest J. Dodge, 219, secure Detroit, 62, 63, subdue Ind- ians, 61, 148, withdraw beyond the Ohio, 143, 147; orders: enlistment of soldiers, 216, expedition against Peoria, 198; organization of army of, 145; papers of, 313, n. 1, 346, n. 1; passport asked from, 49, payment of, 144; petition to, from: French, 64, 65, Lionnais, 70; powers of, 60, 61, 62, 64; presents J. Todd to Kaskas- kians, 82; proclamation of, on slaves, 64; prohibits emigration, 347; pro- mised re-enforcements, 147; promises of, to: T. Bentley, 170, French, 81; provided with appointment blanks, xxiv, 47, n. 1, 63, 145; receives Bill of Rights and French treaty, 61, 62, 64; reception of, by French, 233, 329, 331, 427, 454; recommends payment of T. de Monbreun, 327, n. 1; re- cruiting instructions sent to, 145; re-enforcements sent to, 60, 81, 158; relations of, with, T. Bentley, xviii, xxii, xxiii, xxiv, 8, n. 3, 73, n. 2, Gibson, xxiii, W. Linn, xxiii, J. Rogers, 338, traders, 47, n. 1; relief sent to, 52; requires oath of strangers, 285; report of, on: capture of Vin- cennes, xxvii, 149, government of Illinois, 399, 401; report to, on: M. de la Balme, 170, disorders in Illinois, 151. 376, 395. 5t8. 519. R- Winston, 278; return of, 214, 313; secures submission of G. Cerré, 48, 49, n. 1; sends: recruiting instructions to Vir- ginia, 145, to Harrodsburg for troops, 347; soldiers of, 125, 133, 140, 141, 142, 363; speech of, to Kaskaski- ans, 80; spies of, at: Kaskaskia, xxiii, 8,8, n. 3, Vincennes, 51,52, n. 2; stores promised to, 145; success of, 61, 63; supplies for, 63, 105, 113,114, 115, 116, 126,127, 128,129, 130, 131; 147, 426; supported by: French, 330, 331. 333. 335. 363. Virginia, 147; sup- ports T. Bentley, xxiv, xxv; terrifies Indians, 11o; testimony of, on cap- ture, of Vincennes, xxvii, xxiii, xxxi; treaty of, with Kaskaskians, 371, 412; tyrannical acts of, 457, 458; uses: continentals, 331, peltries as currency, 130, 131. Clark, John, signs: as arbiter, 501, commission, 317, contract with B. Tardiveau, 444; supporter of R. Winston, 317, n. 1. Clark, Lardner, land grant to, 350, 351; law-suit of, with D. Murray, 359. Clark, Lieutenant Richard, messenger for G. R. Clark, 345. Clark, Thomas, signs contiact with B. Tardiveau, 444. Clark, William, biog. notice of, 376, a. 1; letter to, from J. Dodge, 375. Cleark, John, see Clark, John. Cloth, trade in, 31. Cochon (Cochan), Joseph, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420; votes for judge, 86. Cochran, John, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Cochran, Robert, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Cochy, see De Cochy. Coffee, trade in, 31, 33. Cohos, see Cahokia. Coiel, Daniel, testimony of, in Court of Enquiry, 33. The Collection of Laws and Articles of Jurisprudence, sent to Illinois, 321. Commandant, powers of, 384, 384, n. 2. Commons, grant of, 460, 463; in: Cahokia, 77, Kaskaskia, 463, Vin- cennes, 463; pillaged by troops, 88, 89, 92, 339, 363, 385; reservations for, 385- Company of the West, sends J. B. Girardot to Illinois, 18, n. 1. Comte (Compte), Aymé, Sr., candidate for office, 301, 302; decision of, in law-suit, 355; election of, 292, 302, 419, n. 61; magistrate, 310, 353, 355; oath of, 308; petition to, from Mme. Alary, 353; resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419; signs contract with B.
Page 637
INDEX 637 Tardiveau, 442; votes in election, 86, 292, 301. Comte, Aymé, Jr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Comte, Joseph, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Comus, François, votes for judge, 86. Conante, Mariane, signs petition to governor of Virginia, 239. Conaud, signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 289. Conger, Jonathan, seal of G. R. Clark sent by, 151. Congress, action of, on: Illinois, 370, 371.372.383, 391. 397, 399. 399. 1, 400, 401, 409, 427, 435, 437, 459, 471, memorial of F. Carbonneaux,369, n. 1, 370, 371, memorial of Kaskaskians, 413, memorial of G. Morgan, 470, 471, 479, 489, 490, 491, memorial of B. Tardiveau, 465, 466, 471, 475, 477, 481, 482, 482, n. 1, 491, n. 1, 494, slavery among French, 509; arrest warrant sent to, 272, 272, n. 1; asked to establish government in Illinois, 365. 366, 369, 37°. 371. 381; attitude of, towards: French, 184, 199 485, Indians, 372,401, B. Tardiveau, 485, Vincennes, 586; F. Carbonneaux sent as agent to, 315; complaints to, 241, n. 1, 242,315.3i°. 424.425,426, 427,428, 429, 430, 431; confidence in, of French, 410, 426, 427, 430, 435, 436, 468; contract of, for land sale, 450; disapproves of action of Virginia, 182; elects G. Morgan Indian agent, 3, n. 1; establishment of court by; 372; forbids settlement of northwest, 446; interest of, in Constitution, 467; land: cession to, of Virginia, 229, 361, 412, 446,457,465,473, 510, grants by, 474. 481, 484. 485, 487, 488, 49°. 491. 49I, n- 1-. 492, 493. 597, 599. sale ordinance of, 410; Lebrun agent to, 385, n. 2; letter of, to: French, 397,424,437; letter to: President of, from: R. Flint, 489, B. Tardiveau, 451, J. Todd, 229, Secretary of, from: P. H. de la Valinière, 424, P. Langlois, 436; memorial to, from: F. Carbonneaux, 7, n. 369, 370. faction of J. Dodge, 360, 361, 362, R. Flint, 489, French, 381, 413, 485, 491, G. Morgan, 483, 489, 490, 491, J. Parker, 489, B. Tardiveau, 445, 447, 454.;462, 465, 466,471, 475, 485, 491; offers land for sale, 448; papers sent to, 272, n. 1; petition to, from: Americans, 446, M. B. Bentley 397, n. 2, 431, R. Flint, 449, 450, 450, n. 1, 551, n. 1, French, 447, 454, 462, 465, 466, 471,475. 477, 481,482,482, n. 1, G. Morgan, 469, J. Parker, 449, 450, 450, n. 1, 451, B. Tardiveau, 421, n. 1; proposal to, from G. Morgan, 471; recognizes land claim of Indiana Company, 2, n. 2; report to, on: Illinois, 397, 459, land sales, 450, 451, 471, memorial of G. Morgan, 490, Northwest, 371, 411, 412, 413, 485; B. Tardiveau: attempts to discredit, 437, justifies himself to, 451, 452, 453, sent as agent to, 440; testimony before, of G. Cerré, 383; R.Winston sent as agent to, 315. Conneye, payment to, 345. Conspiracy of Pontiac, causes loss to traders, 2, n. 2, 3, n. 1; outbreak of, 18, n. 2. Constans, Jean Baptiste, letter of, to J. Hamtramck, 503. Continental Currency, circulated by G. R. Clark, 331; confidence of French in, 330,331,34i,363; counter- feits of, 76, 115, 125, 126, 333, 334; depreciation of, 76, 333, 334, 335,336, 346. 363. 455; effect of, on trade, 363; redemption of, 183; scarcity of, 100; supplanted by: beaver, 15, deer skins, 117, letters of exchange, 115, peltries, 102, 193, 194, 379, 455; worthlessness of, 115, 130, 133, 143, 146, 175, 183, 233, 337. Contract, between: French and B. Tardiveau, 440, Kaskaskians and R. M'Carty, 241, B. Tardiveau and Americans in Illinois, 443. Conway, Life of T. Paine by, referred to, 210, n. 1. Cook, John, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Cook, W., signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Copper mines on Illinois River, search for, 2, n. 1. Corcet, Francois, see Corset François. Corn, furnished to Indians, 358; lack of, 510; traffic in, 12, 13,35, 118, 187, 205, 248, 249. Cornwallis, General Charles, defeats General H. Gates, 174. Corset (Corcet), François, appointed justice of the peace, 402; candidate for office, 269, 271, 301; casts vote
Page 638
638 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS in election, 269, 271; clerk of parish, 575. 577; commission of, 402; declines office, 406; election of, 302, 417, n. 32; magistrate, 302, 310, 405, 406; protest of, to Kaskaskians, 406; resident of Kaskaskia, 417; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, 443, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, 289, petition to governor of Virginia, 239; summoned to take oath, 305, 306. Cotino, see Cottinault. Cottinault (Cotino, Cotinault), Antoine, Sr., death of, 69; petition of widow of, to Court, 68, 73. Cottinault, Antoine, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Cottinault, Baptiste, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Counseil Superieur, appeals to, at New Orleans, 384, 384, n. 2. County Lieutenant, commission of, 320; powers of, 61, 63, 64, 266; see, J. B. Barbau, T. de Monbreun, J. Todd, R. Winston. Cour d'Enquête, see Court of Enquiry. Court at Cahokia, action of, on traders, 382, n. 1; erection of, by G. R. Clark, 68, n. 1; forbids sale of liquor to Indians, 117, n. 1; land grant by, 421, n. 7; records of, 250, n. 1; see Alvord, Cahokia Records, III. Hist. Collections, II. Court at Kaskaskia, adjournment of, 309, 310; Americans in, 406, 408; appeal of T. Bentley from, 223, 225; arbiters named by, 496; asked to establish government at Bellefontaine, 294; assembles Kaskaskians, 290; attitude of R. Winston towards, 304; calculates necessary supplies, 116; confidence of French in, 136, 137; confiscation of property by, 299; complaint of J. Girault to, i11; composition of, 84, 84, n. 1, 86, 134, 209, 213, 223, 250, n. 1, 268, 270, 271, 292, 296, 302, 304, 309, 310, 406, 408; consults inhabitants, 207; deci- sion of, 73, 124, 134, 253, 257, 293, 360, 386; declares certificate of J. Rogers invalid, 211; De Monbreun summons, 359, 359, n. 1; des- potism of, 260, 261; disrespect for, 152, 274, 316; dissolution of, 6, n. 3, 50, n. 1, 311, n. 1, 343, 343, n. 1, 377, 391, 392, 404, 407, 459; election of judges of, 80, n. 1, 82, 84, 269, 270, 271, 291, 292, 301,302; enquiries of, concerning J. Rogers, 206; establish- ment of, 6, n. 3, 18, n. 4 18, n. 5, 259, 333. 334, 384. 407, 4°8; fees in, 277, 287; forbids liquor traffic, 112, 117, 118, 119; government of Kaskaskia by, i11, 112, 113, 116, 117, 118, 286; hostility to, 154; huissier for, 304, 407, 409; illegal measures of, 154; interpreter in, 406, 408; jurisdiction of, 86, 87, 253, 267, 384; land grants bv, 349.35°. 35ï; law-suit in, 95, i11, "3. 134, 251. 3°9. 31°. 359. 360. 377, 385. 397, n- 2. 403; 1etter of, to: F. Cruzat, 311, J. Rogers, 207, 212; letter referred to, 259; letter to, from: Board of Commissioners, 319, 330, F. Carbonneaux, 303, F. Cruzat, 296, 298, 300, J. Girault, lS2< 153. J- Rogers, 206, 211, J. Todd, m, R. Winston, 218, 304; maintenance of, 285, 286, 316; meet- ing place of, 303; oath in, of: T. Bentley, 223, clerk, 108, fidelity, 295, 296, judge, 107, 292, 302, 305, 306, justice of the peace, 308; ordered to: examine strangers, 153; try case, i11; orders: erection of jail, 291, inhabitants of Bellefon- taine to take oath, 295, repair of fences, 276, 277; petition of, for election, 268; petition to, from: L. Boisdoré, 95, G. Cerré, 311, A. Chouteau, 300, J. Datchurut, 311, P. Desrochers, 95, inhabitants of Bellefontaine, 294, Kaskaskians, 284, A. Labonté, 95, J Labuxiere, 254, 274, P. Langlois, 256, J. Larame, 95, J. Lasource, 265, R. M'Carty, 216, Preno, 276, H. Smith, 251; postponement of, i11; procedure in, 95, 106, 107, 108, 111, 113, 124, 154, 216, 217, 218, 267, 304, 309, 407, 409; protest to, from: T. Bentley, 220, 224, Kaskaskians, 136; quorum of, 86; reassembled by J. Todd, 111; records of, 87, 107, n. 1, 134, 250, n. 1, 309, 359; refuses to: recognize law-suit, 211, 220, 222, 228, 253. 277, 282, 293, support troops, 209; registration by, 43, 59, 79, 254, 285; remonstrance of, 140, 195; reply of, to J Rogers, 212; requires oath of T. Bentley, 220, 224, 226, 227, 230, 236; resignation of clerk of, 303; respect for, 286; retains commission, 257, 261, 262, 265;
Page 639
INDEX 639 revival of, 311, n. 1, 409, 409, n. 1, 410, n. 1; J. Rogers threatens dis- solution of, 211, 236; seal of, 441; struggle of, with R. Winston, 257- 264; sustain syndics, 287; sustained by troops, 304; term of magistrates of, 268, 268, n. 1, 268, n. 2, 292; testimony of S. Bond in, 421, n. 2; use of prison by, 152; R. Winston: advises special session, 250, denies jurisdiction, 267, sheriff for, 88. Court at Vincennes, establishment of, 507,507, n. 1. Court of Appeal, desired by the French, 411. Court of Enquiry, called by P. de Rocheblave, xix, 22, 25; composi- tion of, 18; exonerates P. de Roche- blave, 40; P. Girardot president of, 22; procedure of, 22, 25; testimony in, of: A. Antaya, 32, H. Bolen, 34, F. Carbonneaux, 36, Mme. G. Cerriî, 29, Jos. Charleville, 26, D. Coiel, 33, Mme, Delisle, 29, F. Drouart, 28, P. Kennedy, 2, n. 1, 26, 34, N. Lachanse, 39, Mdle. Lasoudraye. 30, Picard, 31, Pierre, 36, P. de Rocheblave, 18, Sylvester, 31, Tour- anjeau, 30; witnesses summoned by, 23, 24, 25. Court of Justice of the Peace, 402. Cox, John, petition of, to Congress, 469. Craighton (Creighton), Robert, resi- dent of Illinois, 420; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Creighton, Robert, see Craighton, Robert. Creilly (Crely), Françoise, protest of, against sale, 499. Creilly, Jean Baptiste, I., death of, 497; marries Marie Agette, 414, n. 4; widow of, 496-501. Creilly, Mme. Jean Baptiste (I.), marries G. Aubuchon, 498; property of, 497, 500; sale by, to N. Lachanse, 310, 497- Creilly, Jean Baptiste, II., J. Edgar attorney for, 496; law-suit of, with N. Lachanse, 377, 378, 496-501; letter to, from F. Cruzat, 377; protest of, against sale, 499; resident of Kaskaskia, 414. Creilly, Jean Baptiste, III., emigrates to Florissant [?], 414, n. 4; resident of Kaskaskia, 414. Creilly, Joseph, Sr., marries Marie Louise Marquis, 414, n. 4; resident of Kaskaskia, 414; signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139. Creilly, Joseph, Jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 418. Crely, see Creilly. Crittington, Major, abstract sent by, 198. Crocketts, Colonel, leads re-enforce- ments to G. R Clark, 158. Croix, see LaCroix. Croucher, Henry, appointment of, by J. Girault, 94; sells horse to Guion, 252. Cubidge, Joseph, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Cumberland (Chauanon) River, trade on, 32. Curry, James, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Cruzat, Francisco, commandant at St. Louis, 297, 297, n. 1, 299; de- clares inability to decide law-suit, 377; demands passports of traders, 297; deserters from, 375; en- croachments of, 374; fears British attack, 376; letter of, to: Court at Kaskaskia, 296, 298, 300, J. B. Creilly, 377, T. de Monbreun, 373, J. Dupuis, 377; letter to, from Court at Kaskaskia, 311; offers position to T. de Monbreun, 357; proclama- tion of, on Mississippi River trade, 373, 374; sends: petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 300, 311, sends notice to T. de Monbreun, 374. Cutler, Manasseh, contract of, with Congress, 450. Dacasta, draft to the order of, 123. Dalton, Captain V. T., fears influence of M. de la Balme, 169; leads relief party to Fort Jefferson, 52, n. 3; Damon, Pierre, signs petition to gover- nor of Virginia, 240. Damours, dit Toulouze, see Toulouze. Damur, Miss, marries Pierre Dau- buchon, 571. Dane, Nathan, report of, on: govern- ment of Northwest, 399, 399, n. 1, 401, memorial of G. Morgan, 479. Daniel, Walter, letter of, to Virginia commissioners, 346, n. 1. Danis (Danné, Dany, Denise), Charles, I, family of, 414, n. 6. Danis, Charles II, contribution of, to troops, 116; magistrate, 72, 73; resi- dent of Kaskaskia, 417; signs peti-
Page 640
64o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS tion to governor of Virginia, 239; mentioned, 414, n. 6. Danis, Charles III, resident of Kaskaskia, 417. Danis, Jerôme, marries Pelagie Doza, 414, n. 6, 417, n. 33; resident of Kas- kaskia, 414; signs agreement, 409; mentioned, 354. Danis, Joseph, resident of Kaskaskia, 417; mentioned, 414, n. 6. Danis, Louise, marries Antoine Bien- venu, 416, n. 24. Danis, Michel, Sr., marries Marie Barbe Pillet, 414, n. 6; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 290. Danis, Michel, Jr., marries Elizabeth Bienvenu, 414, n. 6; resident of Kaskaskia, 414. Danis, Therese, marries Alexis Bauvais, 414, n. 6, 414, n. 8. Datchurut, (D'Atchurut D'Atchrut, Dutchurut), Jean, law-suit of, 123; petition of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 311; mentioned, 210. Daubichon, Pierre, marries Mdle. Damur, 571; see Aubuchon. Davis, Benjamin, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Debas (Debuesse), David, land grant to, 350. Deberniere (Debernier), mentioned, 44. Debts, collection of, 37, 43, 44, 298. Debuesse, see Debas, David. De Cartabona, commandant at Ste. Genevieve, 540, n. 1; hostility of, to Americans, 127. De Celles, Joseph, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. De Cochy, Gabriel, St., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420; signs con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442; votes for magistrates, 292. De Cochy, Gabriel, Jr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. De Cochy, Louis, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Deerskins, fines paid in, 117; trade in, 102; treatment of, 242; used as currency, 127, 242. De Gagnier, Jacques, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. De Gagnier, Jean Baptiste, Sr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. De Gagnier, Jean Baptiste, Jr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. De Gagnier, Laurent, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. De Gagnier, Pierre, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. De Gautrau, Pierre René Harpan, sieur de, step-father of P. de Girardot, 18, n. 1. De Girardot or Girardeau, Jean Bap- tiste, marries Thérese Neveu, 18, n. 1. De Girardot, Pierre Sieur, biog. notice of, 18, 18, n. 1; certificate of election of, 86; president of Court of Enquiry, 18, 22; signs testimony, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32. 33. 34. 3°. 38, 39. 4o; see Picard [?], 18, n. 1. Dejean, Philip, biog. notice of, 104, n. 4; arrival of, at Sullivans Station, 249; imprisonment of, 104, n. 4, 119, 122; justice of the peace at Detroit, 16; prosecution of, 104; release of, secured by T. Bentley, 168. De la Balme (Balm), Colonel Mottin, biog. notice of, 162,162, n. 1; address: of, to French on Mississippi, 181, to, from French, 189, 189, n. 1, 199; advocates expedition against Detroit, 186, 187, 188; aided by J. D. Du- plasy, 18, n. 5; at: Fort Pitt, 163, Philadelphia, 182, St. Louis, 189, Vincennes, 169; attitude: of, towards Americans, 162, 169, towards, of; French, 237, 238, J. Montgomery, 196, R. Winston, 196; commission of, 237; conference of, with Indians, 163, 164, 165; death of, 168, 200, 200, n. 1, 246, 425; defeat of, 237; ex- pedition of, against Detroit, 196, 199, 200, 237, 246; French ask advice of, 181; in Illinois, 166, 196, 199; letter of, to Luzerne, 163; pacifies Indians, 196; policy of, 169, 170; protection of, asked by Kaskaskians, 189, 191, 192, 199; recommended by A. Fowler, 237, 246; supplies furnished to, by Kaskaskians, 193, 194; supported by French, 196, 246. De la Luzerne, see Luzerne. De la Parc, Joseph, signs contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244. De la Soudray, see De Monbreun. De la Valinière (Valliniere), Pierre Huet, biog. notice of, xxxviii, xxxviii, n. 1, xxxix, xl, xli, xlii, xlix; accusa- tions against, xlvi, xlvii, 453, 574; accusations of, against: P. H. de St. Pierre, xliii, xliv, 551, 552, 570, 573,
Page 641
INDEX 641 J. Dodge, 425, 426, 427, 428, P. Gibault, xlv, 591, Kaskaskians, 579, B. Tardiveau, 427, 452, 548, n. 3; ambition of, 578; appointed vicar- general of Illinois, xlii, 581, 587; asks for: certificate of services, xli, land, 428, parish, 558, recall, xlv, 560; attitude of, towards Revolution, xxxviii; characterization of, xxxix, xl, xli, xlix, 453, 580, 590; departure of, from Illinois, xlix; describes condi- tions in Kaskaskia, 424, 425, 426, 427, 428, 429, 429, n. 2; influence of, with Congress, 577; in New Orleans, 592; interference of, in politics, xlv; legal work of, 575; letter of, to: Bishop of Quebec, xlv, Cahokians, xliv, 548, 549, P. de St. Pierre, 551, Bishop Hubert, 558, J. Labuxiere, 549, C. Thompson, 424; letter to, from Cahokians, 554; marginal notes by, 272, 272, n. 2; mistreatment of, xl, 515; opposes: P. de St. Pierre, xliii, J. Dodge, xlv, xlvi, B. Tardiveau, xlvi, 427, 548, n. 3; money owed to, 428, 428, n. 5; performance of duties by, xl, xliii, 388, 574, 575, 576, 577, 578, 579. 58°; province of, 549, 571; recants accusations against P. de St. Pierre, 570, 573, 575; recommenda- tions of, 581; rights of, in Seminary of Quebec, 558; stirs up discord, xxxix, 556, 568, 569, 573, 574, 575, 576, 577,. 578, 580, 590; suspected by British, xxxviii, xxxix, xl; suspension of, 572; B. Tardiveau answers ac- cusations of, 451, 452; vicar-general of Illinois, 549, 555, 560, 572, 581. Delavau, returns to Baltimore, 601. Delaware Indians, called Ouabenaki by the Algonquins, 35; conference of Lord E. Fitzgerald with, 516; ex- pulsion of, 98; hostility of, 97, 516; trade with, 11, 12, 13. De Linctot, see Linctot. Delisle (Delille) Andrè Bienvenu (Bien- venue, Bienvenus) dit, resident of Kaskaskia, 414. Delisle, Antoine, I, marries Françoise Robut, 416, n. 24. Delisle, Antoine, Sr., contribution of, to troops, 116; death of, 416, n. 24; marriage of, 414, n. 6; marries Louise Danis, 416, n. 24; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; sympathy of, with Americans, 8. Delisle, Antoine, Jr., contribution of, to troops, 116; debt of, to J. Dodge, 360; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs: commission, 317, memorial to Congress, 368, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139; supporter of: J. Dodge, 368, R. Winston, 317, 317, n. 1. Delisle, Charles, acts for Duplasy, 73; antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; officer of militia, 73; resi- dent of Kaskaskia, 416; signs: con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442, memo- rial to Virginia commissioners, 344, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 290. Delisle, Elizabeth I, marries Pierre Gelina dit Lacourse, 416, n. 24. Delisle, Elizabeth, II, marries Michel Danis, 414, n. 6. Delisle, Etienne, resident of Kaskaskia, 414. Delisle, François, biog. notice of, 416, n. 24. Delisle, Henry, resident of Kaskaskia, 416. Delisle, Jean Baptiste, Sr., resident of Kaskaskia, 414. Delisle, Jean Baptiste, Jr., antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; resident of Kaskaskia, 414; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, contract with B. Tardi- veau, 442, memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 290, petition to gover- nor of Virginia, 240. Delisle, Joseph, resident of Kaskaskia, 416. Delisle, Louis, Sr., antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; candidate for office, 301; resident of Kaskaskia, 414; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344, peti- tion to governor of Virginia, 240; votes in election, 301. Delisle, Louis, Jr., resident of Kaskas- kia, 414. Delisle, Michel, resident of Kaskaskia, 417- Delisle, Therese, marries Nicolas Levas- seur, 415, n. 17. Delisle, Madame, contribution of, to troops, 116; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, peti- tion to governor of Virginia, 239; testimony of, in Court of Enquiry, 24, 29.
Page 642
642 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Delisle, signs agreement, 409. DeFoeil, Françoise, marries Stanislas Levasseur, 415, n. 17. Delorme, surname of Soumande family, 417, n. 36. De Louviere (Louvieres), Antoine Du- chaufour, Sr., certificate of election of, 86; election of, 85, 419, n. 59; magistrate, 85, 86, 292; resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419, 419, n. 5; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442; votes for magistrate, 292. De Louviere, Antoine, Jr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. De Louviere, Francois, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. De Louviere, Pierre, resident of Priarie du Rocher, 419. De Louviere, Noel, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. De Monbreun (Mombrun, Monbreunt, Monbrun, Munbrun), Jacques Tim- othé, Sieur, biog. notice of, referred to, 320, n. 1; accompanies J. Mont- gomery, 323; appointed County Lieu- tenant, 320, 328, 329, 359', 361; appointment of J. B. Barbau by, 390; attitude of, towards: G. R. Clark, 325, right of asylum, 375; candidate for office, 301; certificate of services of, 322, 323, 325, 326; commandant at Kaskaskia, 355, 356, 385; commission: from, to J. B. Barbau, 390, to, from R. Winston, 320, 328, 300, n. 1; complains of en- croachments of F. Cruzat, 374, 375; congratulates Congress on land ces- sion, 361; decision of, in law-suit, 359. 360; describes situation in Illinois, 361; difficulties of, 356, 361; encloses memorial to Congress, 361; expense account of, 357, 357, n. 1, 358; government by, 356, 357, 361, 386; holds cession of Court, 359, 359, n. 1; instructions to, from R. Winston, 321; land grants by, 351, n. 1, 354; letter of, to: G. R. Clark, 324, 326, governor at New Orleans, 374, T. Mifflin, 360, J. Williams, 323, 324, 326; letter to, from: F. Cruzat, 373, A. Morin, 385, J. Will- iams, 323, 325; memorial of, to Virginia House of Delegates, 355, 357, n. 1; mission of, to Ste. Gene- vieve, 358; nativity of, 356; notice sent to, by F. Cruzat, 373, 374; offers made to, by Spanish, 357; orders appointment of arbiters, 386; over- throw of, 391, n. 2; partner of J. Dodge, 428; payment of, 323, 324, 325, 326, 327, 327, n. 1; poverty of, 326; powers of, 353, n. 1; public services of, 320, 322, 323, 325, 326, 327, n. 1, 355; relations of, with Indians, 356, 357, 358; report on, of Commissioners, 327, n. 1; resident of Kaskaskia, 417; signs: accusation against P. H. de la Valiniére, 580, con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442; votes in election, 301; witness of contract, 243- De Monbreun, Pierre Boucher, sieur de la Soudraye, marries Toinette Langlois, 30, n. 1, 416, n. 21. De Monbreun, Therese Archange Bou- cher, marries Jacques Chenier, 417, n. 29. De Mongolfier, Montgolfier, see Mont- golfier. Demsey (Densy), John, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. De Munbrun, see De Monbreun. Denise, see Danis. Dennies (Dinnis), Alexander, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Densy, John, see Demsey, John. De Peyster, Major Arent Schuyler, biog. notice of, 17, n. 1; arrests T. Bentley, 9, 17, 41, 108; commander at Detroit, 73, n. 1; letter of, to: T. Bentley, 108, F. Haldimand, 45; letter to, from T. Bentley, 108, 168, 172; Miscellanies by, referred to, 17, n. 1. De Portneuf, marries Madeleine Bar- rois, 418, n. 51. De Rocheblave, Marie Michel, asks for exchange of husband and indem- nity, 155; at Chicago, 352; interest in, of P. Henry, 62; letter of, to F. Haldimand, 154; provision for, by Virginia, 154, 155, n. 2. De Rocheblave, Philippe de Rastel, Chevalier, accusations against, 6, 9, 14, 20, 21, 26, 39; accuses T. Bentley of treachery, xviii, 7, 9, 14, 16, 17, n. 2, 41; appointment of, by H. Lord, 4, n. 5; asks for certificate of sen-ices, 353; at: Chicago, 352, New York, 174, Quebec, 353; attitude of, to: T. Bentley, 14, 168, 171, English, 5, 26, 27, 28, French, 4, 5, St. Germain,
This page contains an image.
Page 643
INDEX 643 178; capture of, 154; characteriza- tion of, 54; commercial relations of, with T. Bentley, 11, 14, 37; confers with Indians, 39, 40; defense of, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23; entrusted with family of H. Lord, 155, 155, n. 1, 180; excites Indians, 6; exoneration of, 6, 27, 28, 40; forbids sale of liquor to Indians, 5, 14, 20; government by, 4, 5, 6, 10, 15, 40, 42, 54; imprison- ment of, 153, 154, 173; interest in, of Monforton, 53; land owned by, 350; letter of, to: G. Carleton, 41, F. Haldimand, xxi, 155, 173, 352; loyalty of, 40; marries T. Bentley, 16; mistreatment of, 53, 62, 176; oaths of allegiance of, 5, 9; offered gover- norship of Illinois, 176; petition to, from G. Aubuchon, 498; poverty of, 180; publishes discourses with In- dians, 22; quiets Indians, 21, 22, 29; refuses to swear allegiance to Con- tinental Congress, 176; summons Court of Enquiry, xix, 22, 23, 25; testimony of: in Court of Enquiry, 18, onT. Bentley, xxi, 179; treatment by, of: T. Bentley, 42, 202, 203, English, 20, 23, 26, 27, 28, 40, traders, 4, 5, 6, 40; vested with government of Illinois, 4,4, n. 5; warns British of danger, 179. Deruy, Paul, candidate for office, 269. De St. Photes, see Populus. De St. Pierre (Heiligenstein), Father Paul, biog. sketch of, xxxvi, 531, 533; accepts cure at Ste. Genevieve, 1., 515, 571; accuses J. Edgar and L. Tournier of theft, 522, 523, 526, 527; accusations against, xliii, xliv, 5 22,531, 548, 548, n. 4, 551, 552, 555, 559, 57°. 573. 574; appointment of, by J. Carroll, xxxv, 587; arrest of, re- quested, 529; arrival of, at Kaskaskia, xxxvi, 547, 574, attitude towards, of: Cahokians, 566, 567, P. H. de la Valinière, xlv; J. Carroll enquires about, 592; chaplain in army, 568; characterization of, 547; confidence of people in, 555; P. H. de la Valinière recants accusations against, 570, 573; denies jurisdiction of civil powers, 526, 528; departs for Cahokia, 524, n. 1; desires: recall, xlv, removal of P. H. de la Valinière, 569; jurisdic- tion of, 551; labors of, xxxvii, 566; law-suit of, with J. Edgar and L. Tournier, 521, 522, 523-530; letter of, to: J. Carroll, xxxvi, L. Payet, 532, B. Tardiveau, xlv, 567, 570; letter to, from: P. H. de la Valinière, 551, B. Tardiveau, 567; mission of, to Northwest, xxxvi, 592; opposes: P. H. de la Valinière, xliii, 555, 553, J. Dodge, xxxvii; powers granted to, 562, 571, 592; promised land by B. Tardiveau, 568; stirs up discord, 559; summoned to Court, 523, 524, 525, 5 28; supports P. Gibault, xlv. De St. Germain, Jean, see St. Germain. Desgly, Bishop, report of, on Northwest, 587- Deshêtres, Antoine, marries Marie Charlotte Chevalier, 419, n. 55. Deshêtres, Louis, resident of Kaskaskia, 419. 419. n- 55- Desrochers, Paul, petition of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 95, 96, 97. Desrousses dit St. Pierre, see St. Pierre. Desruisseaux (Deruisseaux, Rossaux), Francois Trottier dit, at: Cahokia, 567, Fort Nelson, 346; letter of, to G. R. Clark, 346; mentioned, 573. Desruisseaux, Fran' ois II., resident of Kaskaskia, 415; signs memorial to Congress, 367; supports J. Dodge, 368, n. 1. Desruisseaux, Jean Baptiste, resident of Kaskaskia, 415. Desruisseaux, Joseph, resident of Kas- kaskia, 415. Desruisseaux, Paul, death of, 585; marries Marie Louise Bauvais, 414, n. 8; signs petition to Court, 139. D'Estaing, Count Charles Hector, ex- horts Canadians to join Americans, 64, 121, 177. Desurnis, land grant by, 463. Detroit, J. Askin at, 44, n. 3; Clark ex- pected at, 123; danger from, 62, 63; A. S. De Peyster commandant at, 17; expedition against, of: G. R. Clark, 102, 102, n. 1, 109, 130, 148, M. de la Balme, 19, n, 186, 187, 188, 193, 194, 196, 199, 200, 237, 246; H. Hamilton governor at, 9, 16, n. 1; R. B. Lernoult commandant at, 13, n. 1; missionaries at, 590; L. Payet at. 532, 535. n- 1; trade of, with Illinois, 33, 173, 411, 455, 462; traders from, 410. Devenies, see Devignais. Devignais (Devegnais, Devegner, De- venies), Jacques, casts vote in elec- tion, 269; marries Marianne Lade-
Page 644
644 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS route, 414, n. 3; resident of Kaskaskia, 414; signs: memorial to Congress, 367, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, petition to governor of Virginia, 240; supporter of J. Dodge, 367. Devignais, Joseph, resident of Kaskas- kia, 414. Devignais, Therese, marries Michel Desrousses, 414, n. 3. De Villars, vicar-general at Paris, 587. Devilliers, at Arcansas, 105. Devoux, Joseph, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Devoux, Philippe, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Dezer, Françoise, wife of Joseph Bra- zeaux, 19, n. 1. Dinnis (Dennies), Alexander, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Dodge, Israel, affidavit of, 228; arrests R. Winston, 273, 274, 275; at Falls of Ohio, 426; collector for J. Dodge, 228; friend of B. Tardiveau, 430; ordered to arrest R. Winston, 272. Dodge (Doge), Captain John, biog. notice of, referred to, 104, n. 1; accusations against: of R. Winston, 425, of, against: French, 238, R. Winston, 272, 273, 275, 375, n. 1, 277; antagonism of, towards: G. R. Clark, 426, J. Edgar, 430, P. Lang- lois, 428, J. Parker, 410, n. 1; ap- pointed Indian commissioner, 104, n. 1; ascendency of, xlii, xliii, 367, n. 1, 523, n. 1; asks aid of J. La- buxiere vs. R. Winston, 275; at: Fort Duquesne, 119, 120, Fort Jeffer- son, 159, 210, Fort Pitt, 120, Sulli- vans Station, 249, Vincennes, 151; attempts to discredit Congress, 437; Captain, 104; capture of, 104, n. 1; complaints against, of: M. B. Bentley, 431, P. H. de la Valiniere, 424, 425, 426, 427, 428,429, 429, n. 2, 43°. 431. Kaskaskians, 215, 242, 424, n. 5, 438; debts of, in Illinois, 228; de- mands arrest of R. Winston, 282, 283; T. de Monbreun partner of, 428; departure of, from Illinois, 249, 397, n. 2, 427, 430, 432, 433, 436; destroys government, 425; dishonesty of, 156, 215, 219; dispute of, with M. Bent- ley, 397, 397, n. 2, 425, 435. n- 2, 425. n- 3- 430, 431. 432. 433. 434, 435; disregards Court at Kaskaskia, 274; downfall of, xlv, xlvi, 425; em- powered to make arrest, 283, 284; An entertaining narrative of the cruel and barbarous treatment and extreme sufferings 0] Mr. John Dodge during his captivity of many months among the British at Detroit, by, referred to, 104, n. 1; escape of, 104, 119, 120, 122; expulsion of, 410, n. 1; faction of, 50, n. 1, 317, n. 1, 360, 361, 362 367, 367, n- 1. 368, 414, n. 5; fails to meet commissioners, 345; gives note for shirts, 217; home of, 376; imprisonment of, 104, n. 1, 119, 120, 122; Indian agent, 104, 104, n. 1, 210, 219, 220, 228; investigation of, 215; intrigue of, with B. Tardiveau, 439; keeps R. Winston prisoner, 274, 275; land grants to, 349, 351; law- suit of, with: A. Bienvenu, 360, R. M'Carty, 216, 217; learns of con- fusion in Illinois, 151; letter of, to: Board of Commissioners, 275, n. 1, P. Boyle, 104, G. R. Clark, 151, 345, W. Clark, 375, Graverat, 120, J. Labuxiere, 275, 282, Lebron, 119, LeCrosse, 121, G. Morgan, 209, P. Pothier, 120, J. Todd, 159, Visger, 120; letter to, from: G. R. Clark, 151, 159, G. Morgan, 209, A. Robin- son, 105, R. Winston, 151; notifies G. R. Clark of situation in Illinois, 151; opposition to, xxxvii, 272, 273, 359. 359. n. 1, 397, n. 2, 427, 428; orders arrest of R. Winston, 272, 273, 274, 275, 283, 425; outrages com- mitted by, 515, 515, n. 3; mistreat- ment by, of: French, 242, N. La- chanse, 425, n. 4, D. Murray, 428, 429, E. Murray, 156; mortgage of, on estate of T. Bentley, 397; placard of, concerning M. Bentley, 306, 432; powers of, 151; prophesies death of LeBrun, 425 ; prosecution of prisoners by, 104; refuses to give shirts, 217; sells: goods, 334, land, 349; sub- mission of French to, 429; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 444, memorial to Congress, 368; suspected by R. George, 214, n. 1; summoned by: Court, 217, investigating com- mission, 314; supported by J. Har- mar, 426, 427; supports J. Rogers, 236; B. Tardiveau friend of, 437; treachery of, 425, 425, n. 6; trade of, with Gratiot, 345; tyranny of, 382, 425, 429; witness for T. Bentley, 220 222, 223.
Page 645
INDEX 645 Doge, see Dodge. Doherty, D. J., article by, referred to, 494- Dolman, papers of, 503. Domingo, Antoine, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Donne, E. J., forwards letter to G. R. Clark, 377. Dorre, Louis, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Dosa, see Doza. Douglas, Walter B., historical work of, referred to, 49, n. 1, 383, n. 1. Dove, William, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Doyle, John, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Doza (Dosa), Alexis, resident of Kas- kaskia, 417. Doza, Noël Joseph, St., marries Jo- sephte Pelletier, 417, n. 33; resident of Kaskaskia, 417; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, petition to governor of Virginia, 240. Doza, Joseph, Jr., marries Catherine Longval, 417, n. 33; resident of Kas- kaskia, 417. Doza, Marguerite, marries Jean Bte. Guillon, 417, n. 33. Doza, Pelagie, marries Jerôme Danis, 414, n. 6, 417, n. 33. Doza, Pierre, marries Marguerite Gig- niar, 417, n. 33. Draper, Doctor L. C, copies J. Ham- tramck's letters, 502, n. 2. Drennins Lick, troops meet at, 347. Droiiart, François, promised position by D. Murray, 34; testimony of, in Court of Enquiry, 23, 25, 28. Droùart, Raphael, acts as witness, 403, 4°5- Drury, see Dury. Duberger, B., signs letter to Seminary at Quebec, 566, 567. Dubuque, Augustin, carries letters, 520, 520, n. 4; buys mission property, 563; sells mission property, 561; signs letter to P. H. de la Valinière, 557. Ducharme, Charles, carries letters, 520, 520, n. 2; signs letter to: P. H. de la Valinière, 557, Seminary of Quebec, 566, 567. Duchaufour, see De Louviere. Du Chouquet, François Lefevre, marries Therese Barrois, 415, n. 51. Duclos, Alexander, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Duclos, Antoine, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Duclos, Michel, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Duclos, Widow, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Ducoigne, carries letters, 513, 514; hated by Indians, 516. Duff, Michael, appointed Justice of the Peace, 402; debtor to J. Edgar, 514. Dumay, Baptiste, signs letter to: P. H. de la Valinière, 557, Seminary of Quebec, 566, 567. Dumont, Pierre, antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; casts vote in election, 269, 301; signs: memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344, peti- tion to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, 290. Dunham, Aaron, petition of, to Con- gress, 469. Dunn, J. P., Indiana, by, referred to, 9, n. 1, 493, 1- Duplasy (Duplassey, Duplaisie, Du- plessy, Placis, Plasi Plasy), Jean Baptiste, resident of Kaskaskia, 418. Duplasy, Joseph Duguay, Sr., biog. notice of, 18, n. 5; certificate of elec- tion of, 86; contribution of, to: M. de la Balme, 194, troops, 116; death of, 246; magistrate, 73, 86, 107, 134; marries Catherine Barrois, 418, n. 51; member of Court of Enquiry, 18, 26; mission of, to French ambassador, 196; officer in militia, 18, 73; signs: petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 142, petition to J. Todd, 94, testimony in Court of Enquiry, 26, 27, 30, 31, 33, 34. 3°. 38, 39. 40. Duplasy, Joseph, Jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 418; signs memorial to Vir- ginia commissioners, 344. Duplasy, Louis, resident of Kaskaskia, 418. Duplasy, Marie Louise, marries Joseph Baugy, 415, n. 8, 418, n. 51. Duplasy, Minors, J. Baugy guardian for, 379. 39i, 392- Du Ponceau, Peter S., notary public, 322, n. 1. Dupuis, Joseph, law-suit of, with N. Lachanse, 377,378; leaves Kaskaskia, 393, 394; letter to, from F. Cruzat, 377; petition of, to M. Bouvet, 395; resigns guardianship, 394; signs: commission, 317, memorial to Con-
Page 646
646 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS gress, 367; supporter of: J. Dodge, 367, n. i, R. Winston, 317, n. 1. Dupuis, Renè, marries Marie Jean Bauvais, 414. Dury (Drury) Beff, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Dury, Clement, signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 444, memorial to Con- gress, 367; supporter of J. Dodge, 367, n. 1. Dury, William, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Du Simitière, mentioned, 2, n. 2. Dutisné, Louis, marries Therese Neveu, 18, n. 1. Duviet, Pierre, signs contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244. Eagle River, J. Ryan at, 421, n. 3. Eau de vie, see liquor. Edgar, John, biog. notice of, 376, n. 2; accused of theft, 522, 523, 526, 527; antagonism of, to J. Dodge, 430; attitude of, towards French, 376, 376, n. 2, 426; characterization of French by, 513; copy of letter given to, 378; lawsuit of, with: P. de St. Pierre, 521-530, N. Lachanse, 496; letter of, to: J. Carroll, 531, G. R. Clark, 395, J. Hamtramck, 511, 513; letter to, from G. R. Clark, 395; offers to, from Spanish government, 516; patriotism of, 514; petition of, to: Congress, 469, N. Lachanse, 521, 522, 523, 529; promises pro- visions for troops, 511; reports sit- uation in Illnois to G. R. Clark, 376, 395; signs: as witness, 388, 389, agreement, 409, minutes, 524, 529; urges: arrest of P. de St. Pierre, 529, establishment of government, 513- Election, at church, 268, 276; by as- sembly, 82, 268, 270, 406, 407; in: Bel1efontaine, 296, Cahokia, 268, n. 1, Kaskaskia, 84, 85, 86, 87, 257, 265, n. 1, 268, n. 1, 301, 302, 304 Prairie, du Rocher, 85, 268, n. 1, 291; of: magistrates, 84, 85, 86, 87, 268, 268, n. 1, 269, 270, 291, 296, 301, 302, 304, 384, 399, 4". notary, 257, 265, syndic, 276; ordered by R. Winston, 268; petition of Court for, 268. Elliot, Captain, at Philadelphia, 314. Elliot, Doctor, army surgeon, 506. Elliott, Grey, petition of T. Bentley sent to, 77. Emigration of French, cause of, 509, 510; encouraged by Spain, 507, 516; reported to J. Hamtramck, 509; to Louisiana, 337, 343, 361, 410, 484, 488, 494. 51°. 5"- Enau, see Canada. English, attitude towards, of: French, 203, Indians, 44, 165; boat of, cap- tured on Wabash River, 52; call treaty at La Roche du Bout, 503; F. Cruzat fears attack of, 376; de- feat of, 104; excite Indians, 157, 184, 503; friction of, with French, 5; gov- ernment of Illinois by, 54, 55, 56,383 384, 384, n. 1, 384, n. 2, 585; invest Charleston, 158; land grants by, 384, 384, n. 3; seek peace with: France, 64, United States, 76; Spain declares war against, 119; traders of, cause trouble, 410; treatment of, by P. de Rocheblave, 20, 23, 26, 27, 28, 40; urged to re-occupy Illinois, 172; warned by P. de Rocheblave, 179; western policy of, 90, n. 2; with- drawal of troops of, 10, 345. English, W. H., Conquest of the Terri- tory northwest of the River Ohio, by, referred to, xx, n. 1, xxvi, n. 1, xxvii, n. 2, xxviii, n. 1, xxviii, n. 2, xxx, n. 1, xxxii, n. 2, xxxii, n. 3, 2, n. 1, 8, n. 3, 48, n. 1, 52 n, 52, n. 1,73, n. 3, 423, n. 19, 423, n. 23. Estaing, see D'Estaing. Evans, Captain, mentioned, 314. Fafard, see Longval. Fagot, André, land grant to, 351. Falls of the Ohio, Board of Commis- sioners at, 314, 318, 328; G. R. Clark at, 347. 377. Farmer, Father Ferdinand, biog. notice of, 546, n. 1; letter of, to P. Gibault, 546. Farques, friend of T. Bentley, 171. Farqueson (Farkeson), Marguerite, (Mde. Winston), petition of, for trial of R. Winston, 272, 273, 425, n. 2; see Turguerson, Margaret. Farral (Ferrell), John, death of, 422, n. 15; resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Fauler, A., see Fowler, A. Fee, for: marriage, 116, protest, 100, registration, 101; of notary, 287. Felisse (Filiss) Jean Baptiste, resident of Kaskaskia, 418; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442.
Page 647
INDEX 647 Fences, complaint of syndic about, 276. Ferrant, François, clerk of C. Gratiot, 59- Ferrell, see Farral. Fertin, see Fortin. Filiss, see Felisse. Finane, Daniel, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 444. Fines, character of, 88; for unlicensed trade, 14, 20, 65, 93; paid in deer skins, 117; used to support poor, 118. Fishar, Fisher, see Visger. Fitsgerald, Lord Edward, mission of, to Northwest, 516. Fleming, William, biog. notice of, 109, n. 1; at Falls of the Ohio, 314, 318, 328; Journal of, 346, n. 1; letter of, to governor of Virginia, 313; letter to, from: governor of Virginia, 313, J. Montgomery, 314, G. Smith, 313, J. Todd, 109; member of in- vestigating commission, 313, 314, 318; proclamation of, to creditors, 317, 3i8- Flenery, signs petition to Court at Kas- kaskia, 295. Flint, Royal, land grant to, 471, 472, 483; letter of, to president of Con- gress, 489; petitions Congress for land, 449, 450, 450, n. 1, 451, 489. Floquet, Father, supports American cause, 57. Flour, price of, 299; supplied to: M. de la Balme, 193, troops, 113, 114, 455; traffic in, 15, 34, 35, 114, 132, 222, 233, 234, used as currency, 242, 299. Floyd, Colonel, letter of, to G. R. Clark, 249; mentioned, 215. Forge, tools, used in, by French, 104. Forget, Father, departure of, 564; sales made by, 562; vicar-general of Illinois, 562, n. 1. Fort Chiswell, J. Montgomery at, 75. Fort de Chartres, abandoned by Eng- lish, 4, n. 4, 90, n. 2; land grant to inhabitants of, 481; settlement at, 479- Fort Clark, letter to officer of, from R. Winston, 49; J. Montgomery, commandant at, 323; J. Rogers at, 197; troops left at, 206. Fort Duquesne (Pitt), J. Dodge at, 119, 120; fall of, 2, n. 2; A Fowler, com- mandant at, 247; see Fort Pitt. Fort Gage, misnomer of, 439, n. 1; purchased by B. Tardiveau, 439, 439, n. 1; mentioned, 23, 25, 43. Fortin (Fertin), Joseph, contribution of, to troops, 116; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, petition to governor of Virginia, 240. Fort Jefferson, attacked by Indians, 52, n. 2, 323; departure of G. R. Clark from, 345; J. Dodge at, 159, 210; establishment of, 143, 144, 145; famine at, 248; R. George at, 213; relief sent to, 52, 52, n. 2, 323; troops depart for, 197. Fort Knox, at Vincennes, 502. Fort Missiac (Massac), troops to be stationed at, 109. Fort Muscuton, above Vincennes, 470. Fort Nelson, G. R. Clark at, 346. Fort Pitt, abandoned by English, 90, n. 2.; Col. Broadhead at, 210; G. R. Clark at, 326; M. de la Balme at, 163; departure of J. Rogers for, 106, 11o; J.Dodge at, 120; A. Fowler at, 237; W. Murray, agent at, 7, n. 1; trade of, with New Orleans, 507: see Fort Duquesne. Fort Patrick Henry, held by G. R. Clark, 73; see Vincennes. Foster, Henry, signs contract with, B. Tardiveau, 445. Fowler (Fauler), A., commandant at: Fort Pitt, 237, 247, Kaskaskia, 162, 237, 246; letter of, to N. Janis, 161, 246; letter to, from N. Janis, 246; recommends M. de la Balme to French, 237, 246. Fox Indians, hostility of, 21, 22, 516. France, alliance of, with United States, 55, 56, 119, 120, 122, 157, 19c, 191, 200, 330, 454; proclamation of, to Indians, 157; Virginia obtains money from, 146. Franklin, Benjamin, joins land com- pany, 3, n. 1; letter to, from E. Bancroft, 2, n. 2; Papers of, referred to, 2, n. 2. Franks and Company, W. Murray, agent for, 4, n. 2, 7, n. 1. Frelinghuysen, Frederic, petition of, to Congress, 469. French of Illinois, address: of, to M. de la Balme, 189, to, from M. de la Balme, 181; agents of, in Virginia, 245, n. 1; agree: to enforce Black Code, 91, not to sell liquor to In-
This page contains an image.
Page 648
648 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS dians, 90; ask for: exemption from taxation, 412, government, 365, 366, 370,371, land, 448, 460, 461, 462,464, 468, 471, 475, 477, 481, 482, 482, n. 1, protection of M. de la Balme, 189, 191, 192, 199; attitude of, towards: American cause, 208, 362, continental currency, 330, 331, 341, 363, G. R. Clark, 233, 329, 330, 331, 454, 518, M. de la Balme, 197, 237, 238, 246, J. Dodge, 273, 438, Eng- land, 203, A. Fowler, 246, govern- ment, 513, Irish, 203, letters of ex- change, 332, 335, 336, 341, J. Mont- gomery, 273, J. Rogers, 273, United States, 395, Virginia, 150, 337, 343; attitude towards, of: G. R. Clark, 80, 81, 209, Congress, 184, 485, J. Edgar, 376, 376, n. 2, R. George, 213, P. Henry, 61, 62, 63, Indians, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 184, T. Jefferson, 143, 145, 147, J. Todd, 83, 84, R. Winston, 336, 342, 345; F. Carbonneaux, agent for, 369; cause of misfortunes of, 365; char- acterization of, 513; complain to: French ambassador, 196, Virginia, 241, 242, 245, 315, 316; confidence of, in: Congress, 410, 425, 426, 427, 43°. 435. 436, 468, paper money, 341; confirmation of land titles of, 472; continental currency given to, 33i, 334, 335. 33°; contract of, with B. Tardiveau, 440, 452, 453; cul- tivation of land by, 460, 462, 463; demands on, of, J. Montgomery for supplies, 113, 114, 115; deplorable conditions of, 181, 330, 331, 334, 335, 336; deserted by: J. Montgomery, 338, troops, 364, 365; description of, 458; desire: French rule, 169, 170, only one justice, 316; discord among, 317, n. 1, 361, 376; docility of, 456, 457, 458; education of, 86, 139. 239, 240, 243, 244, 289, 290, 367, 367, n- i, 3°8, 409, 458. 4591 effect on, of Ordinance of 1787, 488 503, 508, 509; emigration of, to Louisiana, 238, 238, n. 1, 337, 343, 361, 410, 484, 494, 503, 508, 510, 511, 516; famine among, 138; friction of, with Fnglish, 4, 5; furnish sup- plies for troops, 89, 92, 105, 140, 208, 233. 237. 319. 33°. 331.333.335. 336, 337, 341, 3°3. 454. 455. 457. 458; fidelity of, to United States, 190, 191, 340, 362, 455, 456, 457, 458, 519; fickleness of, 438; government of, 366, 383, 384, 384, n. 2, 458, 520; hostility of, to: Americans, 172, 376, T. Bentley, 202, 203, 205, immigrants, 286, J. Todd, 133, n. 1, R. Winston, 344,344 n. 1; Indians excited against, 184, 199; indolence of, 484; intro- duction of English laws among, 147; investigation of land titles of, 482; T. Jefferson approves of land system of, 145; land grants: by, 349, 350, 351, 464, to, 460, 461, 461, n. 1, 463, 472, 474, 475. 476, 477, 481, 482, 482, n. 1, 484, 485, 487, 488, 490, 491, 491, n. 1, 492, 493; land titles under, 92, 93, 145, 446, 460, 461, 461, n. 1, 462, 463, 465, 472, 475, 476, 479. 484. 493. n- i, 1aws °f, 316; letter to, from R. George, 213; list of, in: Kaskaskia, 414, Prairie du Rocher, 419; losses of, 492, 493; memorial of, to Congress, 381, 411, 445. 448, 454, 462. 465. 466, 471, 475. 485, 491; money owed to, 460, 487; occupation of, xv; office of notary under, 256, 256, n. 1; on Vincennes expedition, 333; oppose land sale ordinance, 410; payment of justice of the peace by, 143; D. Pentecost agent for, 362; petition of, to: Congress, 369, 381, French am- bassador, 199, M. de la Balme, 189, Virginia, 233, 424, 438, Virginia com- missioners, 329, 340; pillaged by sol- diers, 338, 339, 341, 364, 365; popu- lation of, 369, 449, 492, 493; poverty of, 190, 191, 208, 332, 334, 335, 337, 338, 342, 343. 363, 364. 455. 457. 458, 462, 464, 510, 519, 520; preser- vation of documents by, 461, n. 1; privations of, 137, 141; promises made to, 81, 190, 199, 233, 237; pro- tection of, in Virginia land cession, 412, 465; protest of, 136; purchase of land titles of, 484; reception of, Virginians by, 83, 208, 363, 427; refuse to furnish supplies, 129; re- gret action, 179; religious training OI, 535; ru"1 °f, 183, 520; sacrifices of, for G. R. Clark, 330, 333, 335; 363; settle Illinois, 460; submission of, to troops, 429; slavery among, 91, 93, 137, 241, 31°. 377, 385, 387, 39°, 402, 432, 433, 488, 493, 508, 509; sufferings of, 126, 127, 316; B. Tar- diveau, agent for, 451, 452, 453, 462, 465, 466, 471, 475, 485, 486; taxa-
Page 649
INDEX 649 tion of, 437, 464; trade of, 457, 460, 462, 479; treatment of, by: G. R. Clark, 331, 332, 457, 458, J. Dodge, 242, 424, 435, 426. 427, 428, 429, n. 2, 430, 431, J. Montgomery, 242, 333. 335. 336, 342, 345. 455. 456. J. Rogers, 242,338,339, J. Todd, 131, 333. 334, troops, 88, 89, 92, 137, 141, 183, 190, 191, 208, 213, 234, 338, 339. 341, 364. 3°5, 456. 45». 467; treaty of, with G. R. Clark, 412; troubles of, with traders, 382, 410, urged to attack Detroit, 186, 187, 188; wealth of, 138. Furs, fines paid in, 88; trade in, xv, xvii, 3 n. 1, 5, 7, 10, 15, 21, 39, 41, 164, 411, 455, 470; troops supplied with, 487. Gacomini, see Jacomini. Gage, General Thomas, orders aban- donment of Fort de Charters, 4, n. 4; petition to, from traders, 2, n. 2. Gagné (Gagner, Gagnie), Amable, candidate for office, 269, 302; casts vote in election, 269, 271, 301; resi- dent of Kaskaskia, 417; signs: agree- ment, 409, contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, petition to gover- nor of Virginia, 240. Gagné, Antoine, signs memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344. Gagné, François, resident of Kaskas- kia, 417. Gagné, Louis, resident of Kaskaskia, 417- Gagnier, see De Gagnier. Gagnon, François, resident of Kaskas- kia, 417. Garard, see Gerard. Garic, public scrivener of New Orleans, 99- Garretson (Garetson, Garitson, Gar- rittson), James, elected magistrate, 296; resident of Illinois, 422; signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 295. Garretson, Samuel Phyle, death of, 422, n. 13; resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444- Gates, General Horatio, defeated by Cornwallis, 174. Gaussiaux (Gaussio, Gossiaud), Jac- ques, resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Gautrau, see De Gautrau. Gelaspie, William, bears letter to John Todd, 195. Gemme, see Bauvais, Jean Bte. St. Gemme. Gendron (Jandron), Jean Baptiste, casts vote in election, 269, 271; mortgage of, 10, 16; signs: as arbiter, 501, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 290, petition to governor of Virginia, 240. George, Captain Robert, biog. notice of, referred to, 214, n. 1; accom- panies Chickasaw Indians, 314; asks credit for P. Kennedy, 214; at- titude of, towards French, 213, 339; letter of, to: 339, G. R. Clark, 214, Kaskaskians, 213. Gerard (Garard, Jarret) Guy, dis- orderly house of, 112; forbidden to sell liquor without license, 112, 113; signs commission, 317; supporter of R. Winston, 317, n. 1. Germain, Lord George, secretary of state for the colonies, 77, n. 1. Germain (Germin, Jermain), Jean Baptiste, resident of Kaskaskia, 417. Germain, Louis, Sr., casts vote in elec- tion, 271, 301; marriage of, 414, n. 8; resident of Kaskaskia, 417; signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139- Germain, Louis, Jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 418. Geroult, see Girault. Gervais (Gervaisse), Louis, signs: as witness, 388, 389, letter to P. H. de la Valinière, 557. Gibault (Gibeaut, Jeboe), Father Pierre, accusations against, 538,539,559,582, 584, 589, 591; aids Americans, 62,64, 585; appointed vicar-general, xxxiii, 589; appreciated by P. Henry, xxvii, 64; asked to report on J. Le Dru and P. de St. Pierre, 592; assisted by Father Meurin, xxxiii; at: Coho- kia, 1, New Madrid, 1, Ste. Genevieve, xxxiii, 521, Vincennes, 581; attitude of P, H. de la Valinière towards, xlv, 568; characterization of, xxxii; debt of United States to, xxvi; describes conditions in Illinois, 518, 519, 520, 521, 542, 543; dispute of, with mar- guilhers, 593; disputes jurisdiction of J. Carroll, xxxv; exonerates him- self, 534-547; fears H. Hamilton, xxx, xxxii; importance of, in cap-
Page 650
ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS ture of Vincennes, xxvi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, 50, 542, 585; journal of, xxix, 50; labors of, xxxiii, xxxv, 535, 537, 538, 584; library of, 545, 545, n. 1; letter of, to: Bishop of Quebec, xxix, xxxi, 520, 534, 583, J. Carroll, 590, 590, n. 1, G. R. Clark, 518; letter to, from: J. Car- roll, 590, 597, F. Farmer, 546; mis- treatment of, 515; obtains eccle- siastical property, 596, 596, n. 1, 597, 599; offers to, from Spain, 515, 541; opposition of, to liquor trade, 536; patriotism of, 569; power of attor- ney granted to, 561, 562, 665; pri- vations of, 584; requests recall, xlv, 585, 589; sale of land by, 77, 78, 362, n. 1; supported by P. de St. Pierre xlv; testimony of, on capture of Vincennes, xxix, xxxi; timidity of, xxxii ; vicar-gen- eral in the Illinois country, xliii, 569, 581, 5»9- Gibbs, Joel, petition of, to Congress, 469. Gibeaut, Father Pierre, see Gibault, Father Pierre. Gibkins, Doctor, mentioned, 162, 162, n. 3. 247- Gibson, Captain George, announces arrival of W. Linn, xix; carries letter for W. Murray, xx; mission of, to New Orleans, xviii, 12, n. 4; rela- tions of, with G. R. Clark, xxiii. Gigniar, Marguerite, marries Pierre Doza, 417, n. 33. Gilina, dit Lacourse, see Lacourse. Gill, Charles, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Girardeau, Girardot, Pierre de, see De Girardot. Girardin, Antoine, signs letter to: P. H. de la Valinière, 557, Seminary of Quebec, 566, 567. Girault (Gerault, Geroult), Jean, biog. notice of, referred to, 10, n. 1; ap- pointment of H. Croucher by, 94; arrival of, in Kaskaskia, 10, n. 2; commissioned states attorney, 94; complaint of, vs. liquor sellers, h1, 112, 113; debtor to J. Dodge, 376; letter of, to R. B. Lernoult, xxi, 74; lieutenant under G. R. Clark, 74; notice of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 152, 153 ; protected by P. de Rocheblave,1o; protest of, against jurisdiction of Court, 253; resignation of, 254; secretary of G. R. Clark, xxi, xxvii; signs: proc- lamation 68; as witness, 79, states attorney, 113,153,154, 253; translates letter, 207, 212; urges release of T. Bentley, 74. Givaud, Jean Baptiste, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Glenn, David, agent of J. Lindsay, 347, Godin, Michel, finds placard of R. Winston, 264; magistrate, 209, 213, 223; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, petition to gover- nor of Virginia, 239. Gogoy, Charles, law-suit of, with G. Langlois, 134. Golden, Henry, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Gooding, S. S., mentioned, 130. Gossiaud, see Gaussiaux. Grand Ruisseau, Americans settle at, 464; court of Cohokia, at, 421, 421, n. 4, 421, n. 7. Gratiot (Gratiote) Charles, F. Car- bonneaux, debtor to, 208; furnishes supplies, 159; lends money to offi- cers, 59, 60; promissory note to, from J. Harrod and J. Williams, 60; trade of, 345. Gratt, see Groots. Gravé, certifies copy, 567; letter to, from Bishop of Quebec, xli. Graverat (Graverad, Gravorat, Gre- verat), Albert, biog. notice of, 122, n. 1; at: Detroit, 104, 104, n. 2, 122, n. 1, Pittsburg, 122; letter to, from J. Dodge, 120. Gray, Edward William, deputy sheriff of Montreal, 17. Gray, James, signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 295. Greek, Captain, company of, at Fort Pitt, 167. Green, Henry, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Green, Thomas, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Greverat, see Graverat. Griffin, Martin, I. J., work of, referred to, xxxviii, n. 1, xl, n. 2, xli, n. 2. Grillet, dit Laronde, see Laronde Groots (Gratt, Groot), Jacob, resident of Illinois, 421; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Groots, John, resident of Illinois, 421. Groots, William, resident of Illinois, 421. Guardian, appointment of, 69, 70, 71,
Page 651
INDEX 72, 394; power of court over, 70, 72; resignation of, 394; responsibility of, 392. Guielle, Francois, marries Antoine Bau- vais, 414, n. 8. Guion, Fred S., sells horse to H. Smith, 251, 252; signs commission, 317; supporter of R. Winston, 317, n. 1. Guise, David, resident of Illinois, 421; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Guise, Samuel, resident of Illinois, 422. Guise, Solomon, resident of Illinois, 422. Gunpowder, importation of, xviii, price of, 14; purchase of, by Ameri- cans, xviii, 12, 12, n. 4, 13, 14. Guns, trade in, 13, 31, 32, 33. Guyon, murders father-in-law, 543. Hagan, David, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Haldimand, Governor Frederick, biog. notice of, referred to, 135, n. 1; char- acterization of P. H. de la Valiniere by, xl; friend of T. Bentley, 169; letter to, from: T. Bentley, 135, 171, A. S. De Peyster, 45, Marie de Rocheblave, 154, P. de Rocheblave, xxi, 155. *73, 352; papers of, 135, n. 1; refuses to release T. Bentley, 135; P. de Rocheblave asks cer- tificate of, 353; urged to occupy Illinois, 172. Halfpenny, not in census, 421, n. 1. Hamilton, Lieutenant-governor Henry, biog. notice of, 16, n. 1; affidavit of, 11; antagonism of, to T. Bentley, 168; arouses Indians, 16, n. 1; as- cribes capture of Vincennes to P. Gibault, xxvi, 541; at Vincennes, 104, n- 4.3°3; capture of, 16, n. 1,17, n. 1, 73, n. 1, 104, n. 3; captures Vin- cennes, 16, n. 1, 75; governor at De- troit, 9; imprisonment of, 105, 119, 122, 154, 168, 179; orders arrest of T. Bentley, 17, 17, n. 2, 41, 108; report of, on arrest of T. Bentley, 16. Hamilton, Major Isaac, appointed commandant of Illinois, 18, n. 2; departure of, from Illinois, 90, n. 2. Hamilton, William, sells liquor to In- dians, 14. Hamtramck, Major John Francis, asked to send garrison to Kaskaskia, 510, 511, 513; commandant at Vin- cennes, 502, n- J> divides Weeya Indians, 509; inaugurates court at Vincennes, 507, n. 2; letter of, to: J. Edgar, 511, J. Harmar, 502, 506, 507, n. 2, 508, 509, 512, J. R. Jones, 514, J. Ledru, 511, B. Tardiveau, 509, J. Wyllys, 504; letter to, from: J. B. Constans, 503, J. Edgar, 511, 513, J. R. Jones, 514, J. Harmar, 502, Kaskaskians, 509; reports situation in Northwest to J. Harmar, 504, 505, 506,507, 508; request of, for supplies, 505; sends petition to J. Harmar, 509; situation at Kaskaskia, de- scribed to, 514, 515, 516; urges estab- lishment of government at Kaskas- kia, 511, 512, 513. Hanson, Richard, clerk for Baynton, Wharton and Morgan, 45. n. 1. Harding, Julia Morgan, Life of Colonel George Morgan, by, referred to, 3, n. 1. Hardy, report of, on government of Illinois, 370. Harmar, General Josiah, attitude of, towards: G. R. Clark, 427, J. Dodge, 426, 427, 430, 436, j. Parker, 410, n. 1; complaints against P. H. de la Valiniere sent to, 569; deception of, 426, 427, 430, 431; departure of, from Vincennes, 502, n. 1, 576; letter of, to J. Hamtramck, 502; letter to, from J. Hamtramck, 502, 506, 507, n. 2, 508, 509, 512; petition sent to, 509; situation in Northwest reported to, 506, 507, 508; visits Illinois, xlvi, 426, 430, 445, n. 2. Harmon, Israel, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Harmon, Thomas, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Harpan, see De Gautrau, Sieur de. Harrison, Captain Benjamin, death of [?], 315; mentioned, 249. Harrod, Captain James, promissory note of, 59, 60. Harrod, William, biog. notice of, 75, n. 3; instructions to, from D. Pente- cost, xix; service of, in Northwest, xix, 75, 75, n. 3. Harrodsburgh, J. Lindsay, commissary at, 347- Hay, Jehu, biog. notice of, 105, n. 1; prosecution of, 105, 119. Hay, John, son of Jehu Hay, 105, n. 1. Heart, Charles, at Miami Town, 503. Heiligenstein, see De St. Pierre. Helm, Captain, letter to, from G. R. Clark, 52; mentioned, 97.
Page 652
652 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Hemet, Genevieve, wife of C. Cadron, 26, n. 1. Henderson, James, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 444. Hendrick, George, resident of Illinois, 421; signs contract with B. Tar- diveau, 444. Henley, Samuel, signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 295. Henry, Patrick, attitude of, towards: French in Illinois, 61, 62, 64, In- dians 61, 63, trade, 61; in Conti- nental Congress, 158; instructions of, to G. R. Clark, 60, 62, 63; letter of, to G. R. Clark, 63; provides G. R. Clark with appointment blanks, xxiv, 47, n. 1, 63; report to, on cap- ture of Vincennes, xxvii; R. Win- ston receives commission from, 47. Hermon, Thomas, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Hicks, David, sale of property of, 299. Hicks, F. C, reprint of T. Hutchins' Topographical Description of Vir- ginia by, referred to, 2, n. 1. Hides, trade in, 71. Hobuchon, see Aubuchon. Hodder, F. H., reprint of Pitman's Present State of the European Settle- ments on the Mississippi, by, referred to, 492, n. 1. Hodge, F. W., mentioned, 35, n. 1. Hody, letter of, to J. Carroll, 595. Hood, Charles, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Horses, needed by troops, 159; sup- plied to M. de la Balme, 193, 194; trade in, 2, 3. Houck, Louis, History of Missouri by, referred to xxxiii, n. 1, 3, n. 1. 7, n., 18, n. 1, 18, n. 4, 19, n. 19, n. r, 50, n. 1, 297, n. 1,414, n. 2, 414, n. 4, 414, n. 5, 417, n. 38, 419, n. 54, 420, n. 64, 421, n. 10, 445, n. 2, 520, n. 3, 540, n. 1, 591, n. 1. Howe, William, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 444. Howell, report of, on government of Illinois, 370, 371, 373. Hubert, letter to, from P. H. de la Valiniire, 558. Huff, Michel, death of, 423, n. 21; resident of Illinois, 423; signs con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Hughes, Thomas, commission of, as justice of the peace, 402; signs: as witness, 502, contract with B. Tar- diveau, 445, memorial to Congress, 368. Hull, Nathaniel, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Hunter, Joseph, affidavit sworn before, 228. Hurd, Lawrence, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 444. Huron Indians, calmed by G. Linctot, 163; carry letter, 105; mission to, at Detroit, 121, n. 1. Hutchins, Thomas, Topographical De- scription ot Virginia by, referred to, 2, n. 1. Illinois (Ilenoise, Ilinois, Illenois, Ille- noise, Illonies, Illonois), action of Con- gress in regard to, 370, 371, 372, 391, 399. 399. n- i, 400, 4or, 409, 41 r, 412, 4i3,427,435,459,471; advantageous position of, 381; Americans in, 421, 422, 423, 449; appointment of com- missioners for, 411, 412, 413; arrival of G. R. Clark in, 48, 50, 233, 330, 331. 341. 3°3. 454; attitude of'P. Henry towards, 61, 62; cession of, to Congress, 210, 229, 361, 412, 446, 457. 465. 473. 510; conquest of, by Virginia, xxi, xxii, 4, n. 2, 6, n. 3, 49, n. r, 51, 5*, n.1, 52, 52, n., 53, 179, 347; continental currency in, 143, 33°. 331. 334, 335.336, 341; defence- less position of, 10, 45, 62, 109, 172; M. de la Balme starts for, 166; P. H. de la Valinière describes conditions in, 424-431; departure of J. Todd from, 131, 131, n. 1; diplomatic correspondence on, xv; disordered conditions in, xv, 42, 196, 361, 369, 37°. 376, 384, 396, 399. 424, 425. 447, 466, 510, 512, 513, 515, 519, 520, 536, 543, 543. 544, 56°; drought in, 375; education in, 72, 86, 139, 239, 240, 243, 244, 289, 290, 367, 367, n. 1, 368; emigration of French from, 238, 238, n. 1, 337, 343, 361, 410, 484, 494, 5°3. 5°8, 5°9, 510, 511, 516; English language in, 411; famine in, 138; federal land office in, 372; fer- tility of, 445, 447; feuds in, 543; floods in, 375; foundation of County of, 60; French in, 449; government of, by: G. R. Clark, 65, 68, 69, 72, 331, 332, 457, 458. p- de Rocheblave, 4,
Page 653
INDEX 653 England, 54, 55, 56, 383, 384, 384, n. 1, 384, n. 2, French, 70, 383, H. Lord, 55, J. Montgomery, 242, 333,335,336, 342. 345, 455, 456, J. Rogers, 242, 338. 339. J- Todd, 131, 333, 334, Vir- ginia, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 84, 11o, 113, 114, 115, 116, 140, 143, 144, 191, 195, 199, 201, 213, 233, 234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 273, 316, 330, 331, 332, 333, 334, 335. 336, 36i, 406, 408, 409, 457; im- migration to, 33, 153, 286, 445; in- vestigation of conditions in, 1, 315, 317,328,329,340; land: questions in, 371, sales in, 410, 448, 467, specula- tion in, 427, 430, 431; law in, of: England, 5, 384, n. 2, France, 4, 286, 287, 316, 383, 384, 384, n. 2, 399, Virginia, 143, 196, 372, 400, 406, 409; movement for statehood in, 365, 381; organization in, of: government, 366, 369, 37°. 371. 427, 467, militia, 372; population of, 369, 372, 383, 385, 399, 414, 419, 421, 449, 478, 479; posts in, 60; relations of, with Spain, 296, 297, 298, 299, 300, 311, 321,357, 373,375, 377; representation of, in Virginia assembly, 84; Revolutionary cause in, 12, 19, 45, 46, 47, n. 1, 48, 49, 51, 80, 178, 179; settlement of, 445, 446, 460, 479; slavery in, 30, 64, 65, 66, 67, 91. 93. 97, 137, 196, 204, 231, 310, 377. 383.385. 387, 396, 397, 402, 432. 433. 445. n. 1, 488, 493. 5°8. 5°9; sugar cultivation in, 353; surpassed by Kentucky, 11o; tannery in, 71; taxation in, 421; trade: in, 3, n. 1, 4. 5. 7.13. 15. 37. 38, 43. 44, 381, 382, 411, with: Detroit, 33, 411, 455, 462, East, 2, 3, England, 41, Michilli- mackinac, 45, 411, 455, 462, Natches, 132, New Orleans, 7, 132, 195, 215, 297, 334, 334, n. 1, 379, 380, 380, n. 1, 455. 457, 462, Ste. Genevieve, 411, St. Louis, 411, Vincennes, 36, Vir- ginia, 31, 61, 75, 143, West Florida, 42. Illinois Historical Collections, referred to, xv, xvi, n. 1, xxii, n. 2, xxiv, n. 2, xxvii, xxxii, n. 1, xlv, n. 4, 1, n. 1, 4, n. 1, 4, n. 3, 4, n. 5, 7, n., 7, n. 1, 8, n. 3, 8, n. 4, 8, n. 5, 18, n. 3, 19, n, 19, n. 1,43, n. 1,44, n. 2,44, n. 3,49, n. 1, 50, n., 61, n. 1,64, n. 1, 68, n. 1., 75, n. 1, 75, n. 2., 76, n. 2, 79, n. 1, 91, n. 2, 97, n. 1, 104, n. 1, 107, n. 3, 117, n.i, 122, n. 2, 130, n. 1, 131, n. 1, 132, n. 1,133, n. 1,136, n. 1,139, n. 1, 151, n. 2,156, n. 1,162, n. 1,162, n. 3, 170, n. 1,189, n. 1,197, n. 1,198, n. 2, 203, n. 2, 206, n. 1, 207, n. 1, 211, n. 1, 214, n. 1, 217, n. 1, 231, n. 1, 238, n. 2, 241, n. 1, 350, n. 1, 255, n. 1, 270, n. 1, 274, n. 1, 285, n. 1, 395, n. 1, 306, n. 1, 311, n. 1,313, n. 1,317, n. 1,362, n. 1, 367, n. 1,382, n. 1,385, n. 2,395, n. 2, 397, n. 1,410, n. 1,4io,n. 2,411,n. 1, 416, n. 19, 417, n. 28, 417, n. 41, 421, n. 3, 421, n. 4, 421, n. 5, 421, n. 6, 421, n. 7, 421, n. 9, 421, n. 10, 423, n. 18, 423, n. 35, 434, n. 1, 441, n. 1, 444, n. 1, 444, n. 2,445, n. 2.450, n. 2, 464, n. 1,520, n. 2,530, n. 4, 533, n. 1, 561, n. 1. Illinois Indians, conference of, with P. de Rocheblave, 39; trade with, 21, 22. Illinois Land Company, purchase of land by, 7, n. 1; trade of, with Indi- ans, 4, n. 2. Illinois River, explored for copper mines, 2, n. 1; land sales on, 7, n. 1, 450. Illinois State Historical Library, Bul- letin of, referred to, 287, n. 1, 384, n. 2, 418, n. 51; Collections of, referred to, xv, xvi, n. 1, xxii, n. 2, xxiv, n. 2, xxvii, xxvii, n. 1, xlv, n. 4, 1, n. 1, 4, n. 1,4, n. 3, 4, n. 5, 7, n., 7, n. 1, 8, n. 3, 8, n. 4, 8, n. 5, 18, n. 3, 19, n., 19, n. 1, 43, n. 1, 44, n. 2, 44, n. 3, 49, n. 1, 50, n., 61, n. 1, 64, n. 1, 68, n. 1, 75, n. 1, 75, n. 2, 76, n. 2, 79, n. 1, 91, n. 2, 97, n. 1, 104, n. 1,107, n. 1, 117, n. 1, 122, n. 2,130, n. 1,131, n. 1,132, n. 1, 133, n. 1,136, n. 1,139, n. 1,151, n. 2, 156, n. 1,162, n. 1,162, n. 3,170, n. 1, 189, n. 1,197, n. 1,198, n. 2, 203, n. 2, 206, n. 1, 207, n. 1, 211, n. 1, 214, n. 1, 217, n. 1, 231, n. 1, 238, n. 2, 241, n. 1, 250, n. 1, 255, n. 1, 270, n. 1, 274, n. 1, 285, n. 1, 295, n. 1,306, n. 1,311,11.1, 313, n. 1, 317, n. 1, 362, n. 1, 267, n. 1, 382, n. 1,385, n. 2,395, n. 2, 397, n. 1,410, n. 1,410, n. 2,411, n. 1,416, n. 19, 417, n. 28, 417, n. 41, 421, n. 3, 421, n. 3,421, n. 4,421, n. 5,421, n. 6, 421, n. 7, 421, n. 9, 421, n. 10, 423, n. 18, 423, n. 25, 424, n. 1, 441, n. 1, 444, n. 1, 444, n. 2, 445, n. 2, 450, n. 2, 464, n. 1,520,n. 2, 520, n. 4,533, n. 1, 561, n. 1; copy of G. Morgan's Letter Books in, 3, n. 1, 4, n. 2,18, n. 2. Illinois State Historical Society, Trans- actions of, referred to, xxvi, n. 3, 49, n. 1, 299, n. 1, 376, n. 2, 421, n. 2, 422, n. 12, 423, n. 20, 445, n. 1.
Page 654
654 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Imlay, Gilbert, Topographical Descrip- tion oj the Western Territory of North America by, referred to 2, n. 1. Immineur, Therese, marries Jacques Morin, 416, n. 27. Indiana, retribution grant of, 2. Indiana Company, establishment of, 2, n. 2; interest in, of: G. Morgan, 3, n. 1, 210, n. 1, T. Paine, 210. Indians, attitude of, towards: Ameri- cans, 510, G. R. Clark, 11o, English, 44, 177, 178, French, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 184; attitude towards, of: Congress, 372, 401, T. Jefferson, 147, 148, P. Henry, 61, 63; barbarity of, 121; besiege Fort Jefferson, 52, n. 2; cause trouble, 148; conference of, with: M. de la Balme, 163, 164, 165, P. de Rocheblave, 39, 40, E. Fitzgerald, 516, Vaudreuil, 177; de- feat of, 346; desire: liquor, 39, 165, trade in liqour, 29, 30, 31, trade with English, 24, 29; drunkenness of, 5, 15,39; effect on, of: Detroit expedi- tion, 188, liquor, 39, 90, 92, 117, 164, 165, 536; excited by: English, 1, n. 2, 16, n. 1, 46, 157, 184, Spaniards, 514, Virginians, 190; expedition against, 395, n. 1, 426, n. 2, 457, 458,458, n. 1, 508; expulsion of, 98; fear of, 70; gifts to, 187, 193, 199; hostility of, 5, 21, 22, 39, 60, 61, 70, 90, 97, 103, 143, 164, 169, 323, 355, 364, 365, 376, 410, 412, 430, 445, 446, 456, 492, 5°3, 5°4. 5°5, 5°6. 510. 513. 5*4. 51°. 545, 585; influence over, of: M. de la Balme, 196, T. de Monbreun, 356, 357, P. de Rocheblave, 21, 22, 29, 40, G. Linctot, 163, G. Morgan, 3. n. 1; kill R. M'Carty, 241, n. 1; land grants by, 2, n. 2, 91, 92, 144, 372, 450, 463, 478, 482, 493, n. 1; G. Morgan superintendent of, 3; on Detroit expedition, 196, 199, 200; outrages of, encouraged by P. de Rocheblave, 6; pillaging of, 44, 95; poverty of, 164, 170, 506; proclama- tion to, from: French King, 121, 157, St. Germain, 156; promises to, 157, 164, 165; provided with: firearms, 184,186, supplies, 356,357, 358; rela- tions of, with: G. R. Clark, 147, T. de Monbreun, 356, 357, 358; sale of liquor to, forbidden, 5, 14, 20, 90, 92, 93, 117, 117, n. 1, 118, 119, 287, 382, 382, n. 2; sell land to W. Murray and Company, 91, 92; strength of, 510; submission of, 506, 508; threaten frontier, 163, 164; trade with, 24,30, 75, 11o, 143. 148, 164, 171, 172, 219, 369. 395. 448, 460, 462, 470, 479, 517, 536, trade with, in: com, 12, 13, 35, furs, 4, 5, gunpowder, 11, 13, 170, land, 4, n. 2, 7., n. 1, liquor, 14, 15, 20, 21, 27, 28, 29, 30, 35, 39, 90, 91, 92, 117, 164, 287; treaties with, 1, 1, n- 3. 63. 356, 466. 5°2, 5°3. 507; treatment of, by frontiersmen, 165, 184; used as: messengers, 105, 176, slaves, 65, 93, 117, 231. Intestate estate, power of judiciary over, 69, 70, 71 72. Iron Banks, fortification at, 52. Iron Mines, G. R. Clark at, 519. Irwin, Captain, defeats Indians, 345, 34°- Irvine, member of committee on: letter of P. Langlois, 439, letter of B. Tardi- veau, 453, memorial of B. Tardiveau, 468, 471; report of, on: Illinois land, 471, memorials of B. Tardiveau, 465. Jacomini (Gacomini, Jacquemain, Jac- quemin, Jaquemin), Giovani Bap- tista, casts vote in election, 86, 292; election of, 292; magistrate, 292, 310; resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420; takes oath, 308. Jacomini, Pierre, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Jacquemain, Jacquemin, see Jacomini. Jail, Court receives permission from J. Montgomery to use, 152; erection of, at Kaskaskia, 286, 290; the military refuse use of, 195. Jandron, see Gendron. Janis (Janese, Janisse, Janist), Andre, resident of Kaskaskia, 420. Janis, Antoine, Sr., resident of Kaskas- kia, 414; signs petition to governor of Virginia, 239. Janis, Antoine, Jr., signs petition to governor of Virginia, 240. Janis, Francois, resident of Kaskaskia, 414; signs petition to governor of Virginia, 239. Janis, Jean Baptiste, Sr., biog. notice of, 420, n. 64; antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; candidate for office, 301, 302; marries René Julia Barbau, 420, n. 64; resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420; serves under G. R. Clark, 18, n. 4, 420, n. 64; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 442,
Page 655
INDEX memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 290, petition to governor of Virginia, 239; votes in election, 301, 302. Janis, Jean Baptiste, Jr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Janis, Nicolas, biog. notice of, 18, n. 4; advised to hold Court, 250; antag- onism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; captain of militia, 18, 388; casts vote in election, 269, 301; certificate of election of, 86; contribution of, to: M. de la Balme, 194, troops, 116; copy of letter sent to, 557; delivers letter, 378; letter of, to: A. Fowler, 246; letter to, from: A. Fowler, 161, 246, R. Winston, 250; magistrate, 86, 134, 209, 213, 257, 268, n. 2, 250, n. 1; member of Court of Enquiry, 18, 26; petition of, to R. Winston, 268; requested to reassemble Court, 106; resident of Kaskaskia, 414; signs: accusations against P. H. de la Valiniere, 580, as witness, 388, con- tract with R. M'Carty and P. Pre- vost, 243, contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, memorial to Virginia commis- sioners, 344, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 142, 289, petition to gov- ernor of Virginia, 239, petition to J. Todd, 93, testimony in Court of Enquiry, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 38, 39, 40; sympathy of, with Americans, 8,8, n. 1,18, n. 4. Janot, see Lachapelle. Jaquemin, see Jacomini, Jarrett, see Gerard. Jautard, grants power of attorney to A. Dubuque, 561. Jeboe, see Gibault. Jefferson, Thomas, advice of, to G. R. Clark, 144, 147, 148; blank commis- sions sent by 145; attitude of, tow- ards: French, 143, 145, 147, Indians, 147, 148; friend of J. Lemen, 445, n. 1; Illinois affairs reported to, 215; letter of, to: G.R.Clark, 143, 144, 219, Martin, 144, J. Todd, 143; letter to, from G. R. Clark, 144, G. Slaughter, 215, Shelby, 148, Worth- ington, 148; orders investigation of J. Dodge, 219; promises re-inforce- ments to G. R. Clark, 147; recruit- ing instructions of, 145. Jermain (Jermin), votes in election, 301; contribution of, to troops, 116. Jesuits, expulsion of, 492; land grants to, 463,493. 493. ■>' 1' Jeunesse, see La Jeunesse. Jivaud (Givaud), Augustin, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Johnson, petition of French referred to, 383; report of, on government of Illinois, 391. Johnson, Matthew, appointed lieuten- ant governor of Illinois, 11, 11, n. 1, 14. Johnson, Sir William, land specula- tion of, 2, n. 2, 3, n. 1. Jojong, sent as messenger to Vincennes, 5i- Jones, W. A. B., article by, referred to, 426, n 1. Jones, Lieutenant John Rice, biog. notice of, 426, n. 1; commissary for G. R. Clark, 426, 426, n. 1; describes situation at Kaskaskia, 514, 515, 516; letter of, to J. Hamtramck, 514; men- tioned 424; opposition to J. Dodge, 426, 430. Journal of Virginia House of Delegates, referred to, xx, n. 3, 2, n. 2, 249, n. 1, 346, n. 1. Journals of Congress, referred to, 3, n. 1, 371, n. 1, 392, n. 1, 399.n. 1, 412, n. 1, 413, n. 3,413, n. 4, 449, n. 2, 479, n. 1, 482, n. 1. Judiciary, election of, 82, 84, 85, 86, 269, 291, 301, 384; establishment of, in Illinois, 6, n. 3, 18, 18, n. 1,18, n. 4, 18, n. 5, 59, n. 1, 68, 68, n. 1, 72, 236, 406, 408, 409; power of, 69, 70, 71, 72, 86, 87, i11, 112, 113, 154, 286; under British, 56, 57, 384, French, 384, 384, n. 2; use of arbiters in, 20, 40, 384, 386, 496: see Courts. Justice of the Peace, commission of, 402; duties of, 16, 219, 316, 402; oath of, 308, 421, n. 4; office of, among French, 316; payment of, 143- Kahokias, Kahos, Kaokias, Kaos, see Cahokia. Kanedy, see Kennedy. Kaskaskia (Cascachias, Caskakea, Cas- kakia, Caskasia, Caskaskia, Caskas- kias, Kaskakias, Kaskaskeas, Kas- kaskias, Kaskaskie, Kaskaskies, Kas- kaquias), action of Congress in re- gard to, 370, 371, 391; address of inhabitants of, to: M. de la Balme, 189, 199, C. de Luzerne, 199; agree-
Page 656
656 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS ment of inhabitants of, 408, 409; American cause at, xix, xx, xxiv, 51; Americans hold office in, 406, 408; ammunition sent to, 215; arrival at, of: J. Brazeaux, 19, n. 1, G. R. Clark, 48, 30, 233, 330, 331, 341, 363, A. St. Clair, 514, n. 1, Congressional papers, 396, J. Egdar, 376, n. 2, P. Kennedy, 2, n. 1, B. Tardiveau, 426; assembly in, 290, 407, 408, 461, n. 1; attitude of inhabitants of, towards France, 395; J. Baugy judge in, 392, 393; bears weight of expense, 139; M. Bouvet judge in, 419, n. 54; capture of, xxiv, 4, n. 2, 49, n. 1, 50, n. 1, 51, 347, 371, 412; F. Carbon- neaux agent for, 369; census of, 414; commons in, 463; communication of, with Cahokia and Ste. Genevieve, 358; contract of inhabitants of, with: R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 241, B. Tardiveau, 440, 452, 453; Court at, 6, n. 3,19, n. 1, 43, 68, 68, n. 1, 72, 73, 79, 80, n. 1, 82, 84, 86, 87, 95, 96, 97, 289, 290,384, 384, n. 2, 391, 406, 407, 408, 409, 432; T. de Monbreun commandant at, 355; departure of J. Dodge from, 410, n. 1, 427, 430, 432. 433.436; description of, 15; P.de St. Pierre at, xxxvi, 574; devastation of, 510; disestablishment of Court in, 3ii,n. 1,343; disordered conditions in, xlii, xliii, xlvii, xlviii, 49, i11, 112,137, 141, 190, 191, 199, 282, 316, 376, 424, 425, 426, 427, 428, 429, 430, 431, 447, 456, 458, 515; distance of, from Vincennes, 52; disturbed by P. H. de la Valinicre, 568, 574, 575, 576, 577, 580; ecclesiastical property in, 599; election in, 84, 85, 86, 87, 257, 265, n. 1, 268, 268, n. 1, 270, 276,301, 302, 304; English traders in, 4, 410, 411; erection of jail at, 286, 200; establishment of civil authority in, 398; factions in, 362; A. Fowler commandant at, 162; garrison at, 90, n. 2, 364, 455, 510, 511, 513; P. Gibault obtains land at, 596; gov- ernment of, by: Court, 68, 72, 111, 112, 113, 117, 118, 276, 285, 286, 287, 288, 289, 316, 320, 402, 407, 408, 409, 410, 510, 511, 520, J. Dodge, xlii, xliii, J. Montgomery, 234, 235, J. Rogers, 236, 338, 339; immigration to, xv, 153, information concerning, 429, inhabitants of: accuse P. H. de la Valinicre, xlvi, 574, ask for government, 315, 365, 370, 371, 410, ask protection of M. de la Balme, 189, 191, 192, 199, asked for supplies, 113, 114, 115, complain to Virginia, 245, contribute to M. de la Balme, 193, 194, contribute to troops, 116, ordered to repair fences, 276, 277, refer to Virginia Bill of Rights, 140, refuse supplies, 129, 209, request ammunition, 215, send agents to Vir- ginia, 241, n. 1, 315, 316; T. Jeffer- son advises erection of fort at, 147; J. R. Jones in, 426, n. 1; land grants to inhabitants of, 349, 350, 351, 463, 481, 492, 492, n. 1; J. Ledruat, 591, n. 1; letter from, to: G. R. Clark, 215, J. Montgomery, 455, J. Rogers, 207, 212, J. Todd, 215; letter to, from: J. B. Barbau, 398, T. Bentley, 202, Congress, 437, R. George, 213, J. Hamtramck, 511, 513, J. Rogers, 206, 211; memorial from, to Con- gress, 360, 361, 362, 413; militia of, 19; notary in, 263, perilous position of, xxv, 510, 513; petition from, to: Congress, 410, 410, n. 2, 411, 447, 454, 465, 466, 471, 475, 477, 481, 482, 482, n. 1, Court, 284, French am- bassador, 238, governor of Virginia, 233, J- Hamtramck, 509, J. Todd, 88; petition to magistrates of, from: T. Bentley, 220, R. M'Carty, 216; political importance of, xv; popula- tion of, 438, 449, 479, 492, 493; pov- erty in, 190, 191, 208, 332, 334, 335, 337, 338, 342. 343. 363. 364. 455. 457, 458. 462, 464. 5i°. 5*9. 52°; privations of inhabitants of, 137; proc- lamation of J. Montgomery to, 113; prosecution of Americans in, 299, n. 1,376; protest: of inhabitants of, 136, to inhabitants of, from A. Bauvais, J. S. G. Bauvais, and F. Corset, 405; remonstrance of magistrates of, 195; sends Lebrun to Congress, 385, n. 2; slaves in, 241; speech in, of: G. R. Clark, 80, J. Todd, 83; supplies furnished by inhabitants of, 89, 92, 105, 140, 208, 233, 237, 319, 330, 331. 333. 335. 336, 337, 341. 363. 395. n. 1, 454. 455. 457, 458; syndic in, 276; B. Tardiveau circulates peti- tion in, 431, 440; trade of, with: Indians, 13, New Orleans, 507; use of French law in, 286, 287; wealth of, 138. Kaskaskia Indians, Battist chief of,
Page 657
INDEX 657 249; friendliness of chief of, 513, 513, n. 1, 514. Kay, departure of, for Detroit, 122. Kearney, report of, on memorial of G. Morgan, 479. Keen, report of, on government of Il- linois, 399, n. 1. Kellogg, Louise P., Dunmore War by, referred to, 75, n. 3, 76, n. 3, 109, n. 1, 362, n. 1; Revolution on the Upper Ohio by, referred to, xix, n. 1, xx, n. 1, 1, n. 2, 12, n. 4, 105, n. 1. Kenedy, see Kennedy. Kennedy (Kanedy, Kenedy, Kennady), Patrick, biog. notice of, 2, n. 1; ac- knowledges petition vs. P. de Roche- blave, 26; agent for G. Morgan, 43; appointment of, by G. R. Clark, 2, n. 1; assistant commissary, 116, 131; Court of Enquiry asked to examine, 23; exonerates P. de Rocheblave, 6, 26; Journal of, 2, n. 1; letter to, from G. Morgan, 4; D. Murray agent for, 4; partner of R. Winston, 2, n. 1; purchases supplies, 131, 214; refuses to sign petition, 6, 10; sent to Illinois, 213; signs testimony, 26; summoned to Court, 43; sym- pathy of, with Revolution, 2, n. 1; tes- timony of, in Court of Enquiry, 23, 25, 26, 34, mentioned, 6, 103, 345. Kenen, Laurence, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Kenton, Simon, leads troops to G. R. Clark, 347. Kentucky (Kintac) River, English set- tlement on, 33, 36. Kentucky, expedition from, against In- dians, 507, 508; movement for state- hood in, 365, n. 1; superiority of, to Illinois, 11o, J. Todd returns to, 131; trade of, with New Orleans, 507. Kerr, Garland, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Kickapoo Indians, ask to trade with English, 24, 29; hostility of, 503, 514; used against Chickasaws and Choctaws, 147. Kidd, not in census, 421, n. 1. Kinked, Samuel, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Kintac River, see Kentucky River. King, Rufus, petition of French referred to, 383; report of, on government, 391- Kingsford, W., History of Canada by, referred to, 135, n. 1. Knox, General Henry, Letters of, re- ferred to, 410, n. 1. Knox, Major, at St. Asaph, 76. Kohos, see Cahokia. Kozroe, Major, see Bosseron. La Balme, see De la Balme. Laboute, Antoine, law-suit of, vs. Pro- veau, 95, 96, 97. Labriere (Labrier, Labruyère) Cather- ine Normand, marries Pierre Lang- lob, 416, n. 21. Labriere, François, resident of Kaskas- kia, 418. Labriere, Jacques, resident of Kaskas- kia, 418; signs petition to governor of Virginia, 240. Labriere, Raymond, decision of Court on petition of, 73; petition of, in behalf of Mme. A. Cottinault, 68; signs: commission, 317, memorial to Congress, 368; wife of, 68, 69. La Bron, see Lebron. Labruyère, see Labriere. Labuxiere, Joseph, Sr., biog. notice of, re- ferred to, 255, n. 1; action of, in Dodge vs. R. Winston, 275, 277, 278, 279, 280, 281, 282; at Prairie du Rocher, 293; demandsconfiscationof property, 299; J. Dodge asks aid of, vs. R. Winston, 275, 283, 293; empowers J. Dodge to make arrest, 283, 284; examines witnesses, 277, 278; letter to, from: A. Bauvais, 293, P. H. de la Valinière, 549, J. Dodge, 275, 282; petition of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 254, 274, 277; province of, 282; report of, to G. R. Clark, 277, 278; states' attorney, 254, 274, 275, 277, 283, 299; summons as witness: H. Smith, 280, J. Williams, 279, M. Perrault, 278. Labuxiere, Joseph Antoine, Jr., ca- pacity of, 258, 262; commission of, as notary, 257, 262, 265; complaint of, against F. Carbonneaux, 257; notary, 557; oath of, to R. Winston, 266; re- gistration of commission of, 254, 255, 257; retention of commission of, 265; signs as notary, 554. Lachambre, Bouvet dit, see Bouvet. Lachanse (Lachance, L'Chanse), An- toine Caillot dit, resident of Kaskas- kia, 414; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, petition to governor of Virginia, 240. Lachanse, Benjamin, resident of Kas- kaskia , 414.
Page 658
658 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Lachanse, Charles, resident of Kas- kaskia, 414. Lachanse, François, resident of Kaskas- kia, 414; signs petition to governor of Virginia, 239. Lachanse, Gabriel, resident of Kaskas- kia, 414; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Lachanse, Jean Baptiste, resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Lachanse, Joseph, resident of Kas- kaskia, 414. Lachanse, Michel, resident of Kaskas- kia, 414. Lachanse, Nicolas, Sr., biog. notice of, referred to, 50, n. 1, 414, n. 5; antagonism of, towards: Americans, 50, n. 1, T. Bentley, 8, R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; arbitrary conduct of, 382; capture of, 50, n. 1; casts vote in election, 269, 271, 301; certificate of election of, 86; contribution of, to M. de la Balme, 193; copy of letter sent to, 556, 557; denies jurisdiction over priest, 530; elected judge, 50, n. 1, 86, 107, n. 2; gathers com for G. Cerré, 205; law-suit of, with: J. B. Creilly and J. Dupuis, 377, 378, J. Edgar, 310, 496; magistrate, 39, 50, n. 1, 86, 107, n. 2, 134, 209, 213. 223, 521, 522, 523, 523, n. 1, 524, 525, 527, 530; member of Court of Enquiry, 26, 39, 39, n. 1; petition to, from J. Edgar and L.Toumier, 521, 522, 523, 529; resident of Kas- kaskia, 414; sale to, by Mme. Creilly, 310, 496; seizes goods, 10; sells negro, 377; settles at New Bourbon, 414, n. 5; signs: accusations against P. H. de la Valiniere, 580, 581, agree- ment, 409, as magistrate, 521, 522, 523. 524. 525,527, 53°. contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, memorial to Congress, 368, memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344, peti- .tion to Court at Kaskaskia, 142, 289, petition to governor of Virginia, 239, J. Todd, 93; testimony in Court of Enquiry, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 38, 39, 40; summons contest- ants, 523, 524, 525; supports: British cause, 50, n. 1, J. Dodge, 50, n. 1,368, 425, n. 4; takes oath, 107. Lachanse, Nicolas, Jr., antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 443, memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344, petition to governor of Virginia, 239- Lachapelle, Antoine Janot dit, resident of Kaskaskia, 415. Lachapelle, Bazile, biog. notice of, 415, n. 14; commercial relations of, with T. Bentley, 15; contribution of, to troops, 116; marries Marie Elizabeth Choquet, 415, n. 14; note to, from L. Bomer, 10; resident of Kaskaskia, 415; signs petition to Court at Kas- kaskia, 139. Lachapelle, Charles, contribution of, to troops, 116. Lachapelle, Jean Baptiste, resident of Kaskaskia, 415. Lachapelle, Joseph, resident of Kaskas- kia, 415. Lachapelle, Louis, resident of Kaskas- kia, 415. Lachapelle, Therese, marries Antoine Morin, 416, n. 27. Lacourse, Pierre Gelina dit, marries Elizabeth Bienvenu, 416, n. 24. LaCroix, Agnes, marries Jean Chauvin, 414, n. 2. LaCroix, Jean Baptiste, signs letter to: P. H. de la Valiniere, 557, Seminary of Quebec, 566, 567. LaCroix, Louis, resident of Kaskaskia, 417-. LaCroix, Louise, marries Jean Bte. Bauvais, 414, n. 8. Laderoute, Seguin dit, see Seguin. Laffont (Lafong, Lefong), Jean Bap- tiste, biog. notice of, xxx, xxx, n. 2; accompanied by P. Gibault, 541; appreciated by P. Henry, xxvii, 64; assumes responsibility of mission to Vincennes, xxvii, xxix, xxxi, 50; in- structions to, from G. R. Clark, xxviii; letter of exchange in favor of, 197; letter of, to G. R. Clark, xxx, xxxi, n. 1, 50; mission of, to Vin- cennes, xxx, 50, 51; summoned to Court, 309; sympathy of, with Amer- icans, 8, 8, n. 1, 64. Lafleur, surname of Soumande family, 417, n. 36. Lafong, see Laffont. Laforme, Hypolite, resident of Kas- kaskia, 419. La Grand Coilete, Pottowattomi chief, 5°3- La Jeunesse, agent of French in Vir-
Page 659
INDEX 659 ginia, 245, n. 1; letter to, from R. Winston and J. Lasource, 245. Lalande, Alexander, resident of Kaskas- kia, 416. Lalande, Jacques, in Kaskaskia, 416, n. 26. La Luzerne, see Luzerne. Lamalice, resident of Kaskaskia, 419. Lamis, Michel, marries Celeste Barrois, 418, n. 51. La Mothe (La Motte, Le Mothe, Le- mote), Guillaume, biog. notice of, 104, n. 5; imprisonment of, 104, 119, 122. Land, conditions of grants of, 488; confiscation of, 129, 130; Congres- sional investigation of, 383, 399, 413, 482; control of, by Board of Treasury, 472, 478, 480, 481, 483, 484; cultiva- tion of, by French, 384, 460, 462; disputes in titles of, 353, n. 1, 371, 399; division of, into townships, 480; dues from, 78; federal office for, 372, 474, 475, grant of: as bounty money, 145, by: Congress, 474, 481, 484, 485, 487, 488, 49°. 491. 491. n. 1, 492, 493, 597, 599, Court at Cahokia, 421, n. 7, Court at Kaskaskia, 349, 35°. 351. 49°. 491. 491. 1. 492i 493, T. de Monbreun, 351, n. 1, English commandants, 384, 384, n. 3, French commandants, 384, 492, 492, n. 1, Indians, 2, n. 2, 91, 92, 144. 372.. 45°. 463. 478, 482, 493, n. 1, Spain, xlix, 410, Virginia, 463, 464, 476, 488; to: French, 485, 487, 488, R. Flint, 45°. 471. 472. P. Gibault, 597, Jesuits, 463, 492, 492, n. 1, G. Morgan, 485, 487, 489, 49°, 491. J- Parker, 450, 471, 472; improvement of, 488; letters patent for, 475, 476, 477; ordinance for survey of, 480; petition for, of: R. Flint, 449, 450, 450, n. 1, 451, French, 381, 411, 440, 445, 448, 454, 460, 461, 462, 464, 468, 471. 475. 477, 481, 482, 482, n. 1, 491, G. Morgan, 469, New Jersey Land Society, 469, 471, 491. J- Parker, 449, 450, 450, n. 1, 451; possessed by mission of Holy Family, 561, 563, 564, 567; power of governor of Northwest over, 472. 473. 474; price of, 410, 480; registrar for, 373, 400; rent of, 564; reservation of, for commons, 385; sale of, 75, 77, 78, 79, 372, 410, 448, 467, 471. 474. 475. 477, 478, 479. 48o, 483. 485. 489. 49°. 491. 533. 561. 563; scheme for, of: G. Morgan, 494. B. Tardiveau, 427, 431, 437, 440, 447. 448, 460, 461, n. 1, 462, 484, 486, 494, 568; settlement of, xv, 446, 483, 490, 493; speculation in xv, xvi, 2, n. 2, 3, n. 1, 4, n. 2, 18, n. 2, 91, 92, 411, 477, 484; survey of, 371, 404, 471, 472, 473, 474, 475, 476, 480, 490; taxation of, 464; titles to, of French, 446, 460, 461, n. 1, 463. 465. 472. 475. 479. 484. 493. n. 1, 561; trade in, with Indians, 4, n. 2, 7, n. 1, 91, 93; value of, 145; Virginia, encourages settlement of, 446. Langdau (Langdo), François, signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, contract with B. Tar- diveau, 442, petition to governor of Virginia, 240. Langlois (Langloy), André, resident of Kaskaskia, 416. Langlois, Antoine, resident of Kaskas- kia, 416. Langlois, Auguste, resident of Kas- kia, 416, 416, n. 21. Langlois, Charles, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Langlois, Etienne, marries Marie Cath- erine Beaudrau, 416, n. 21; resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Langlois, François, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 416, n. 21, 419. Langlois, Gerard, antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; law-suit of, with C. Gogoy, 134; resident of Prairie du Rocher, 416, n. 21, 419; signs: commission, 317, contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, memorial to Con- gress, 368, memorial to Virginia com- missioners, 344, petition to Court of Kaskaskia, 289; supports: J. Dodge, 368, R. Winston, 317, 317, n. 1. Langlois, Louis, mentioned, 416, n. 21. Langlois, Marie Joachim, marries Louis Populus, Sieur de St. Photes, 416, n. 21. Langlois, Marie Louise, I., marries Pierre Messager, 416, n. 21. Langlois, Marie Louise, II., marries Pierre Lefebvre, 416, n. 21. Langlois, Perine, mentioned, 416, n. 21. Langlois, Pierre, accusations of, against B. Tardiveau, 436, 439, 451, 452; at- tacked by J. Dodge, 428; buys notariat, 306; candidate for office,
Page 660
66o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 369; casts vote in election, 269, 271, 302; certificate of, 381; clerk, 274, 306, n. 1, 368, 378, 523, 525, 526, 527, 528, 531; commissioned as not- ary. 308, n. 1; death of, 416, n. 21; desires notariat, 256, 257; election of, 269, 270; land registrar, 427; letter of, to: C. Thompson, 436, R. Win- ston, 258, 259, 260; letter to, from J. B. Barbau, 396; marries Catherine Normand Labriere, 416, n. 21; no- tary, 398, 405, 433; oath of, 270; opposes increase of magistrates, 259, 261; petition of, to: Court at Kaskas- kia, 256, R. Winston, 308, n. 1; re- cords: commission, 322, 328, docu- ments, 274; resident of Kaskaskia, 129, 390, 416, 416, n. 21; retains commission, 262; signs: as witness, 264, commission, 317, memorial to Congress, 368, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 289; summoned to Court, 309; supporter of: J. Dodge, 368, 427, 428, R. Winston. j;17, 317, n. 1; B. Tardiveau answers accusations of, 451. 453. 453- Langlois, Toinette, marries Pierre Boucher de Monbreun, Sieur de la Soudraye, 30, n. 1, 416, n. 21. Langto, Major, see Linctot. Languedoc, François, birth of, 418, n. 49; resident of Kaskaskia, 418. Lanieuse, Dan, signs agreement, 409. La Novile, Louis, votes for magistrate, 292. Lapaf, candidate for office, 269. La Parc, see De la Parc. Laperche, Jean Baptiste, signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 289. La Perle, Jean Baptiste, signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, petition to governor of Virginia, 240. Lapouriere, casts vote in election, 269. Larame, Joseph, law-suit of, vs. Pro- veau, 95, 96, 97. La Riviere Indians, hostility of, 504. La Roche du Bout, English call treaty at, 503. Laronde, Louis Grillet dit, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. La Rue, Jean, signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, peti- tion to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, 289, governor of Virginia, 239. La Sabtonieres, Jacques, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Lasoude, Louis, signs memorial to Con- gress, 368. Lasoude, Marie Louise, marries Paul Reaume, 418, n. 45. La Soudraye, Mdle., testimony of, in Court of Enquiry, 24, 30. La Soudraye, see De Monbreun. Lasource, Antoine Thaumur (Taumer, Thaumur, Tomur, Thomir, Thomer, Tomure) dit, marriage of widow of, 415, n. 16. Lasource, Batiole, signs pétition to Court at Kaskaskia, 290. Lasource, Jacques, certificate of élec- tion of, 86; contribution of, to troops, 116; decision of, concerning: peti- tion, 255, placard, 264; insulted by proclamation, 266; magistrate, 86, 134, 209, 213, 223, 225, 255; letter of, to: La Jeunesse, 245, R. Winston, 267; letter to, from R. Winston, 257, 267; petition of, to Court at Kas- kaskia, 265; petition to, from J. Labuxiere, 254; president of Court, 254, 258, 265; retention of commis- sion by, 265; signs: as witness, 100, 264, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 142, petition to J. Todd, 94. Lasource, James, land owner, 349. Lasource, Jean Baptiste, contribution of, to troops, 116; marriage of, 414, n. 8; resident of Kaskaskia, 415; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, 290, petition to gov- ernor of Virginia, 240; votes in elec- tion, 269, 271, 301. Lasource, Pascal, resident of Kaskaskia, 416. Lasource, Tague, contribution of, to troops, 116. Lat [?] Louis, signs as arbiter, 501. La Valinière, see De la Valinière. Lavasseur, see Levasseur. Law, Judge John, Colonial History of Vincennes by, referred to, xxvi. Law-suit, between: T. Bentley and J. Dodge, 397, n. 2, T. Bentley and R. M'Carty, 203, n. 2, L. Boisdoré and Proveau, 95, M. Bouvet and H. Smith, 403, Clark and D. Murray, 359, Charleville, and — 11i, J. Datchurut and G. Cerré, 311, P. Desrochers and Proveau, 95, J. Dupuis and N. La- chanse, 377, 378, J. Edgar and P. de St. Pierre, 421-530, J. Edgar and
Page 661
INDEX 661 N. Lachanse, 496, C. Gogoy and G. Langlois, 134, Labonté and Proveau, 95, Lachanse and J. B. Creilly, 377, J. Larame and Proveau, 95, F. Montigny and M. Bouvet, 403, 404, A. Morin and Lebrun, 385, H. Smith and J. Williams, 251, L. Tournier and P. de St. Pierre, 421-530, W. Wikoff and D. Murray, 359; settled by arbiters, 20, 40, 384, 386, 496. L'Chanse, see Lachanse. Lead, needed by army, 159; trade in, 3, 4, 32. 33. 34. 159- Lebo, account of, with Virginia, 345. Lebron, letter to, from J. Dodge, 119. Lebrun, dit Belcour, Major, death of, 385, n. 2, 423; debtor to A. Morin, 385; messenger to Congress, 385, n. 2; signs letter to P. H. de la Valinière, 557- Lecomte, see Comte. Le Crosse, letter to, from J. Dodge, 121. Le Dru, Father Jacobin, biog. notice of, 510, n. 1, 591, n. 1; J. Carroll en- quires about, 592; departure of, for St. Louis, 510, n. 1, 515; letter to, from J. Hamtramck, 511; mission of, to Northwest, 1, 591; signs petition to J. Hamtramck, 510. Lee, Richard Henry, in Continental Congress, 158; report of, on govern- ment of Northwest, 399, n. 1. Leeper, John, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Lefang, see Laffont. Le Gras (Grass), Lieutenant Colonel J. M. P., accompanies Peankeshaw Indians, 314; agent of Vincennes, 346, n. 1; at Fort Nelson, 346; de- mands of, on Virginia, 146; govern- ment by, 536; letter of, to G. R. Clark, 346; notice sent to, 314; mentioned, 143- Lemen, James, biog. notice of, 445, n. 1; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Lemérance, see Lesperance. Lemieux, candidate for office, 269; con- tribution of, to troops, 116; votes in election, 269, 271. Lemieux, Claude, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Lemieux, François, Sr., resident of Kaskaskia, 417. Lemieux, François, Jr., resident of Kaskaskia, 417. Lemieux, Louis, resident of Kaskaskia, 417. Le Mothe, see La Mothe. Lernoult, Captain Richard Barringer, commandant at Detroit, 73, n. 1; letter to, from: J. Bowman, xxi, 73, J. Girault, xxi, 74; urged to obtain release of T. Bentley, 73, 74. Lesperance (Lemerance), Joseph Viaux, notary, 310. Letters of Exchange, confidence in, of French, 332, 335, 336, 341; discredit of, 102; drawn on O. Pollock, 197, 335. 336; effect of, on trade, 363; investigation of, 318; peltries bought with, 334; protest against, 98, 99, 100, 101; redemption of, 183, 363; supplies purchased with, 102, 233, 331. 332. 336, 363; supplant con- tinentals, 115. Levasseur (Lavasseur), Ambroise, resi- dent of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Levasseur, Charlotte, birth of, 415, n. 17- Levasseur, Jean Baptiste, birth of, 415, n. 17. Levasseur, Joseph, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Levasseur, Louis, Sr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420; votes in election, 86. Levasseur, Louis, Jr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Levasseur, Nicolas Simeon, birth of, 415, n. 17; marries Therese Bien- venu, 415, n. 17; resident of Kas- kaskia, 415. Levasseur, Noel, birth of, 415, n. 17. Levasseur, Pierre, death of, 415, n. 17. Levasseur, Recollet, resident of Kas- kaskia, 418. Levasseur, Stanislas, biog. notice of, 413, n. 17; candidate for office, 269, 271; casts vote in election, 269; elec- tion of, 271; magistrate, 309; oath of, 271; resident of Kaskaskia, 415; signs: as arbiter, 501, contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244. Levasseur, Victor, resident of Kaskas- kia, 413. Levens, Henry, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Levy, Isaac, letter recommended to, 8. Leyba, Madame, death of, 128. Licks, D. S., signs memorial to Con- gress, 368. Limpach, Father Bernard de (Bern- hardt von Limbach), biog. notice of, 520, n. 3; at: Ste. Genevieve, 573,
Page 662
66a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS St. Louis, xxxiii; investigation by, xliii, 548, 573. Lincoln, General Benjamin, position of, in Georgia, 75. Linctot (Lintot), Captain Geoffrey, biog. notice of, referred to, 130, n. 1; conference of, with M. de Vandreuil, 177, 178; demands of, on Virginia, 146; enters service of Virginia, 178; influence of, over Indians, 163, 177; patriotism of, 166; sells peltries to W. Shannon, 130; mentioned, 52. Lindsay, Abbé L., works of, referred to, 534, n. 1, 581, n. 1, 599, n. 1. Lindsay (Lindsey, Linsey, Linsy), Joseph, bears letter to R. Winston, 195; commissary at Harrodsburgh, 347, 348; death of, 315, 347, 348; papers of, 315; purchases supplies, 159. I9S. 334; mentioned, 151. Linen,trade in, 4. Linn (Lynn), Benjamin, spy of G. R. Clark, xxiii, 8, 8, n. 3. Linn, Lieutenant William, met by T. Bentley's boat, xix, xix, n. 2, xx, xxi, xxii, 12; mission of, to New Orleans, xviii, 12, n. 4; relations of, with G. R. Clark, xxiii. Lionnais, petition of, to G. R. Clark, 70; scribe at house of Barbau, 69. Liquor, agreement among traders on sale of, 21, 21, n. 1; craved by In- dians, 39, 165; effect of, on Indians, 90, 92, 117, 164, 165, 536; furnished to Indians, 358; Indians desire trade in, 29, 30, 31; license required for sale of, 112, 113 ; sale of, forbidden to: Indians, 5, 14, 20, 21, 90, 92, 93, 117, 117, n. 1, 118, 119, 287, 382, 382, n. 2, slaves, 65, 91, 93, 204, 288; trade in, 14, 15, 20, 21, 21, n. 1, 29. 3°. 3i. 3i, 34. 35. 36, 39.9°. 9i. 92, 93, 112, 113, 117, 164, 204, 248, 287, 288, 345, 455, 536, 545. Lisette, Indian, slave of R. M'Carty, 231- Little Kenawha River, Indian land grant on, 2, n. 2. Livingston, Robert E., report of, on government of Illinois, 371, 373. Logan, General, orders to, from G. R. Clark, 348. Loisel, Madame, wife of Pierre de Girardot, 18, n. 1. Longval (Lonval, Lonvall, Nonval), con- tribution of, to troops, 116; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prévost, 244, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, 289, petition to governor of Virginia, 239. Longval, Catherine, marries Joseph Doza, 417, n. 33. Longval, Joseph, Sr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 415. Longval, Joseph, Jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 415. Longval, Leborgfie, votes in election, 302. Longval, Louis, Sr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 415; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prévost, 244, petition to governor of Virginia, 239. Longval, Louis, Jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 415. Lord, Captain Hugh, appointment of P. de Rocheblave by, 4, n. 5; com- mandant in Illinois, 4, 4, n. 4, 90, n. 2, 55; cedes land to G. Cerré, 78; entrusts family to P. de Rocheblave, ISS» ïS5< n> J> J8o; establishes arbiters, 20, 40; Indian troubles of, 90; popularity of, 55. Louisville, letter to officer at, from R. Winston, 197. Loup Indians, calmed by G. Linctot, 163; relations with, 90. Lousin, Augustin, signs petition to gov- ernor of Virginia, 240. Louviere, see De Louviere. Luneford, Mason, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 445. Luzeme, Chevalier de la, address to, from Kaskaskians, 199; French ask intercession of, 200; intercourse of, with Canada, 175; letter to, from M. de la Balme, 163. Lvnn, see Linn. Macarty, see M'Carty. Machieval, mentioned, 110. Mackinac, death of, 44. Mackinac (Macinac), J. Askin, com- missary at, 44; A. S. De Peyster, commandant at, 17, n. 1; trade with, 173: see Michillimackinac. MacNabb, Archibald, land grant to, 349; signs: agreement, 409, as arbiter, 501, contract with B. Tar- diveau, 444. MacNabb, James, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Madison, James, memorial of B. Tar- diveau, referred to, 494; rep^-tal,

This page contains an image.
Page 663
INDEX 663 on government of Illinois, 399, 401; sends army commission to J. Todd, 11o. Madison, Rowland, summoned by investigating committee, 314. Magistrates, election of, 82, 84, 85, 265, 268, 270, 291, 301, 302, 304, 384, 399, 411; oath of, 107, 292, 302, 305, 306, 308, 421, n. 4 (see Court at Kaskaskia. Magnion, Felicaté, wife of N. Janis, 210. Makidoul, see McDowell. Manchac (Manchack), American suc- cesses at, 45; T. Bentley, at, xvii. Manégre, resident of Kaskaskia, 419. Manuel (slave), death warrant of, 97; trial of, 97, n. 1. Marguilliers, dispute of, with P. Gibault, 593; letter of, to Bishop of Quebec, 561. Marriage, customs of, 539; dispensa- tions for, 551, 552; dowry of, 435; ecclesiastical laws on, 570, 571; fee for, 16; license for, 574. Maroy, Joseph, candidate for office, 302; casts vote in election, 301; signs contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244. Marquis, Marie Louise, marries Joseph Creilly, 414, n. 4. Marrs, Thomas, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Marshall, mentioned. Marshall, A. K., copies letter, 348, n. 1. Marshall (Marshel), John, land grant to, 351; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 444, memorial to con- gress, 367. Marshel, James, resident of Illinois, 422. Martin, Major, Cherokee agent of Virginia, 144. Masecipi River, see Mississippi. Mason, E. G., article by, referred to, 482, n. 1; Philip Rocheblave by, referred to, 4, n. 5; Rocheblave Papers by, referred to, 4, n. 4, 4, n. 5, 50, n. 1; John Todd Papers by, re- ferred to. 128, n. 1; John Todd's Record Book by, referred to, 409, n. 1. Mason, George, in continental Con- gress, 158; letter to, from G. R. Clark, xxvi, n. 1, xxvii, 52, 52, n. 1, 73. n. 3. Mason, Joseph, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Mass, assembly after, 268, 548, 555; honorarium for, 579; sale of property after, 299; see Church. Masson, Louis Villaret, acts as witness, 5^8. Match Coats, trade in, 4. Mather, letter to, from Miller, 7. Mathews, James, affidavit of, 11; clerk of T. Bentley, 10, 12; deposi- tion of, 14; gives corn to Americans, 12. 13- Matison, [Madison ?], money sent by, M'Carty (Macarty, M'Cartey, Mc- Cartey, Mc Carty), Benoist, bequest to, in will, 231. M'Carty, Captain Richard, biog. notice of, 44, n. 2; bearer of petition to Vir- ginia, 241, 424; bondsman for R. Winston, 87, 88; commission of, 231; contract of, with Kaskaskians, 241; death of, 241, n. 1, 424; debtor to T.Bentley, 221; desertions from, 126; difficulties of, 123; enlists soldiers, 216; family of, in Canada, 230; integrity of, 6; land claims of, 231; law-suit of, with: T. Bentley, 403, n. 2, J. Dodge, 216, 217; letter of, to: J. Askin, 44, J. Todd, 334, n. 1; mission of, to Virginia, 230, 241, 242, 245, 424; petition of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 216; power of attorney granted to, 245; supports troops, 216, 217; will of, 230. M'Carty, Richard, Jr., bequest to, in will, 231. M'Carty, Ursula, bequest to, in will, 231- M'Carty, Ursule Benoist, wife of Richard M'Carty, 231. McClannen, Barneby, resident of Il- linois, 423. McClung, John, Western Adventure by, referred to, 348, n. 1. McClure, Samuel, death of, 421, n. 1. McCoy, carries letters, 395. McDowell (Mackidoul), Ensign, acts as witness, 427. McDowell, Samuel, at Falls of Ohio, 318, 328; member of investigating commission, 318; proclamation of, to creditors of Virginia, 317, 318. McElduff, Daniel, signs as arbiter, 501. McGloughlen, see McLaughlin. McLaughlin (McGloughlen), Henry, resident of Kaskaskia, 423; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444.
Page 664
664 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLEC McHenry, report of, on government of Illinois, 370, 373. Melon, Barnaby, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. McNabb, see MacNabb. McRoberts, James, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tar- diveau, 444. Mehilimakinac, see Michillimackinac. Memorial, to Congress, from: T. Car- bonneaux, 369, 370, R. Flint, 489, French of Illinois, 360, 369, 370, 381, 391, 413, 419, 420, 485, 491, G. Mor- gan, 483,489, 490,491, J. Parker, 489, B. Tardiveau, 445, 447, 454, 462, 465, 466, 471, 475, 485, 491; to Vir- ginia from: French, 340, 345, T. de Monbreun, 355, 357, n. 1, D. Mur- ray, xx; to G. Washington from J. Carroll, 599; see Petition. Menard, Pierre, obtains: Kaskaskia papers, called Tardiveau Papers, 241, n. 1, 446, n. 2. Mendosa (Mendoce), Joseph, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419; signs con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Messayer (Messave), Marie, signs memorial to Congress, 368. Messayer, Pierre, marries Louise Lang- lois, 416, n. 21. Meurin, Father, assists Father P. Gibault, xxxiii. Miami, expedition to, from Vincennes, 169; death of M. de la Balme at, 246; E. J. Donne at, 377. Miami Indians, attack French, 200. Miami River, Indian troubles on, 504. Michigan Historical Society, Collec- tions of, referred to, xxxiii, 4, n. 1, 6, n. 2,8, n. 5, 12, n. 3,16, n. 2, 41, n. 1, 119, n. 1, 241, n. 1. Michillimackinac (Mehilimakinac, Me- lilimakinac, Michalmicknia, Michili machinac, Michilimackinac, Michili- makina, Michimakinac, Michomu- knea, Mililamakinac, Mishelemach- anoy, Missilamackinac, Missilimacin- ac, Michillimak), arrest of T.Bentley at, 8, 9, 17, 17, n. 2, 41, 42; J. Askin at, 44; departure of Kay for, 122; English traders from, 382, 410, 517; Monforton at, 53; opposition to Americans at, 376; trade of, with: Illinois, 45, 411, 455, 462, St. Louis, 509: see Mackinac. Michillimackinac Company, post of, at Cahokia, 395. Mifflin, Thoma Monbreun, 3gress, 361, 362. Mignaux (Mignc contract with; vost, 244, me 344, petition I 290. Mills, Captain J Sullivan, 505. Miro, refuses to c< t. Misère, Miserié, Mission of the He of, by troops, property of, 56 563; slaves of,; Mississippi (Mase sippi) River, agomery on, 108 on, by M. de Americans on,: over, 358; dan. land: grant on, 469, 472, 479, 4;flow of, 412; pii on, xvii, 7, 12, 13 187, 297, 348, 3 380, n. 1, 457; trc Missouri Historical rid Archives of, re Mohegan Indians, tt burg. 1, n. 2. Molvost, note in favo Monbrennt, see De Monbreun. Monbreun, Monbrubreun. Mongolfier, see Montgolfier. Monroe, James, pel referred to, 383; 1ernment of Illinois, Monongahela River, I on, 2, n. 2. Monforton, attitude oftion, 53, 54, 55, 36, of, in P. de Rochebh to G. Cerré, 53. Montgolfier, Vicar 1 vicar of Quebec, 57 Bishop Briand, xxx 556- Montgomery (Mongol gomerie), Colonel Jo against, 234, 242, 273 342,345.424.n. 5.425. of, to R. Winston, 33 M. de la Balme, 237;
Page 665
INDEX 66S 323, Richmond, 197; career of, in Illinois, 75, n. 2.; demand for sup- plies by, on: French, 113, 114, 115, 139, n. 1, 455, R. Winston, 150, 151, n. 1; departure of, 195, 197, 206, 236, 338; disposes of peltry fund, 151; expected to bring re-enforcements, 109; expedition of, against Peoria, 198; fails to: aid M. de la Balme, 196, obtain supplies, 126, 127; forbids exportation from Illinois, 127; goes to Georgia, 313, 314; government by. 233. 333. 335. 336; grants use of prison to Court, 152; instructions of, to J. Rogers, 323; issues certificate to T. de Monbeun, 322, 232, 325, 326; leaves J. Rogers in command, 323. 338; letter of, to: G. R. Clark, 125, 128, 133, 149, G. Webb, 197, R. Winston, 150; letter to, from G. R. Clark, 126; obtains flour, 123; patriotism of, 198; proclamation of, to: Indians, 156, Kaskaskia, 113, 114, 115; promises to pay peltries for supplies, 128; refuses to recog- nize civil authority, 235; relieves Fort Jefferson, 323; remonstrance to, from Court at Kaskaskia, 140; reputation of, 335; sells horse to T. Brashers, 252; sickness of, at Fort Chiswell, 75; succeeds G. R. Clark, ?33. 333. 335, 336; summoned by investigating commission, 313, 314; supplies furnished to, 123, 198, 233, 234; trade of, 234, 252; tribulations of, 149, 150; mentioned, 63. Montigny (Montignie), François St. Marie, law-suit of, with M. Bouvet, 403, 404. Montour, John, carries letter, 105. Montureuil [Montuvreuille, Montreuil ?], Jean Baptiste, Sr., resident of Kaskaskia, 418; signs as witness, 388; testimony of, on death of J. F. T. Carbon, 386, 387, 388. Montureuil, Jean Baptiste, Jr., resi- dent of Kaskaskia, 418. Moore, Enoch, resident of Illinois, 422. Moore, Captain James, biog. notice of, 421, n. 10; leader at Bellefontaine, 296; resident of Illinois, 421; sent as commissary, 248; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 444, memorial to Congress, 368, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 295. Moore, James, Jr., resident of Illinois, 422. Moore, John, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Moore, Milton, resident of Illinois, 422. Moore, William, resident of Illinois, 422. Morancy (Morensis), Jacques Bauché dit, resident of Kaskaskia, 417, 417, n. 30; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, petition to gov- ernor of Virginia, 239. More, S., spy of G. R. Clark at Kaskas- kia, xxiii, 8, 8, n. 3. Mores, Jacob, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Morgan, George, biog. notice of, 3, n. 1; action of Congress on petition of, 470, 471,479,490,491; advises French to emigrate, 503, 507, 508; agent for New Jersey Land Company, 469, 483,484; at Princeton, 209; expected in Illinois, 45; explains western policy to J. Dodge, 209, 210; Indian agent, 3, 3, n. 1; P. Kennedy agent for, 43; land purchases by, 471, 483, 485, 487, 489, 491, 494; Letter Books of, referred to, 3, n. 1, 4, n. 2, 7, n. 1, 18, n. 2; letter of, to: J. Dodge, 209, R. Winston, 1; letter to, from J. Dodge, 209; petition of, to Congress, 469, 483, 489, 490, 491: proposals of, to B. Tardiveau, 494; quarrel of, with J. Rumsey, 90, n. 1; reception of, at New Orlenas, 515; relations of, with T. Paine, 210, n. 1; secretary and receiver general of land office, 2; secretary for Indiana Company, 210, n. 1; R. Winston agent for, 43; men- tioned, 7. Morgan, Evan, father of George Mor- gan, 3, n. 1. Morgan (Morgin), Thomas, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Morin, Alexis, resident of Kaskaskia, 416. Morin, Antoine, Sr., buys land from P. Picard, 354; candidate for office, 269; casts vote in election, 269, 271, 301; election of, 269, 270, 302, 306, n. 1; law-suit of, with: Mme. Alary, 354, 355, heirs of Lebrun, 385; letter of, to T. de Monbreun, 385; magistrate, 277, 3°2,3o6.n- i, 3°9,3*°. 4i6, n. 27; marries Therese Lachapcllc, 416, n. 27; G. Morgan enquires for, 210; oath of, 270; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs: as witness, 388, contract
Page 666
666 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIO! with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, memorial to Congress, 368, petition to Court at Raskaskia, 139, petition to governor of Virginia, 239. Morin, Antoine, Jr., resident of Ras- kaskia, 416. Morin, Jacques, marries Therese Im- mineur, 416, n. 37. Morin, Jean Baptiste, resident of Ras- kaskia, 416. Morin, Joseph, resident of Raskaskia, 416. Morin, Louis, marries Madeleine Bar- rois, 418, n. 51; resident of Raskas- kia, 416. Morin, Michel, resident of Raskaskia, 416. Moro, letter to, from — 402. Morrison, Samuel, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 445. Motard, purchases guns, 11. Mothe, Motte, see La Mothe. Mucklemurray, testimony of, 14; see William Murray, 11, n. 2. Monbreun, Munbrun, see De Mon- breun. Munsee Indians, treaty with, at Pitts- burg, 1, n. 2. Murray (Murrey), Daniel, biog. notice of, 4, n. 2; abuses F. Carbonneaux, 37, 38; accusations of, against P. de Rocheblave, 21; agent for P. Ken- nady and T. Bentley, 4; agrees not to sell liquor to Indians, 21, 21, n. 1; aids G. R. Clark 4, n. 2; asked to exonerate T. Bentley, 9, 14; certifi- cate of, concerning T. Bentley, 226; condemned to pay debts, 359; cor- respondence of, with Americans, 34; Court of Enquiry asked to examine, 23; creditor of J. Dodge, 428, 429; death of, 339, n. 1, 428, 429; land: grant to, 351, owned by, 350; law- suit of, with Wikoff and Clark, 359; letter of, to T. Bentley, 6; letter to, from T. Bentley, 6, 8; memorial of, to Virginia Legislature, xx; petition of, to G. Carleton, 4; promises for- tune to F. Droiiart, 23, 28, 34; re- ceives money from J. Buckhanan, 126; sells liquor to Indians, 21; visits Vincennes, 8; witness for T. Bent- ley, 220, 226. Murray, Edward, letter of, to , 156. Murray, William, biog. notice of, 7, n. 1; agent of Franks and Co., 4, n. 2; buys land of Ind dent of Illinois, 4 G. Gibson, xx. Musick, William, nc 1. Muyne, Joseph, sig emor of Virginia, Myers, messenger f< Nagot, head of sem 594. 598- Nailler, mentioned, Natchez, emigration trade of, with Illii Negroes, captured purchase of, 7, 3 Neveu, Jacques, me Neveu, Therese, t Girardeau, 18, n. Newbold, Cleayton Congress, 469. Newbold, Joseph, Congress, 469. Newbold, William, Congress, 469. New Bourbon, settl 414. n. 5. New Jersey Land S 469; G. Morga 471, 483, 484; o petition Congress purchase of land of, 469. New Design, J. Le n. 1. New Madrid, death 445, n. 2; failure of, 3, n. 1. New Orleans, A supplies at, xviii, appeals to court debts of Virginia la Valiniere at, 5c governor at, 50' at, 410; letter ti T. de Monbreui purchases goods at, 515; smallpc with: Illinois, x 13, 14. 35. 76. 297, 334, 334. n. n- 1, 455. 457, 4 St. Louis, 187. Nonval, see Longvi North Carolina, coi 175- Northwest Territc
This page contains an image.
Page 667
INDEX 667 Virginia, 229, 361, 412, 446, 457, 465, 473. 510; Congress forbids settlement of, 446, 465; critical situation of, 505; early policy con- cerning, 210, 210, n. 1; ecclesiastical juridiction over, 587, 588, 595; erection of: into states, 470, land office in, 474, 480; government of, 466, 470, 488, 512, 513; interest in, of Bishop J. Carroll, xxxv, 596, 597, 598, 599, 600 601, 602; organiza- tion of Catholic church in, xxxiii- xxxvii, xlii-xlix; power of governor of, 477, 482; purchase of lands in, 469, 470, 471; report of Congres- sional committee on, 485; settlement of, 446, 465, 469, 470; slavery in, 9i, 93. 137, 34ii 310. 377, 385. 396, 402, 432, 433, 445, n. 1, 488, 493. 5°8. 5°9, A. St. Clair, departs for, 466, 467; see Illinois. Notary Public, appointment: by, of clerk, 256, of, by R. Winston, 256, n. 1; F. Carbonneaux sells office of, 306; commission of, 254, 255, 257, 265; danger from, 261; election of, 257, 265; fees of, 287; P. Langlois opposes increase of number of, 258, 261; oath of, 261; office of, 256, 256, n. 1, 257; ordinance of Court on, 265; placard of R. Winston on, 260; pow- ers of, 261, 263, 384. Notes of Exchange, see Letters of Ex- change. Novile, see La Novile. Oath, of: allegiance, to Virginia, 223, 229, clerk of court, 108, commis- sioners, 372, 401, fidelity to United States, 295, 413, inhabitants of Vin- cennes, xxx, magistrates, 107, 292, 302, 305, 306, 308, 421, n. 4, stranger, 285, surveyor, 475, widows to in- ventories, 359, n. 1, 416, n. 21. Ogle, Benjamin, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 445. Ogle, Jacob, resident of IUiinois, 423. Ogle, Joseph, Sr. resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Ogle, Joseph, Jr., resident of Illinois, 422. Oglesbay (Ogleberry), William, resi- dent of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. O'Hara, Charles, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Ohio Company, contract of, with Con- gress, 45°. 45°. 3- Ohio (Ohiho, Ouyah, Oyo) River, Americans on, xix, 9, 24, 34, 35, 36, 109; T. Bentley on, xxiv, 172; G. R. Clark on, 123, 133, 145; estab- lishment of Fort Jefferson on, 143, 144; Indian land grants on, 2, n. 2; land sales on, 7, 449; W. Linn on, xviii, xix; occupation of, 11o; trade on, 12, 13, 32, 36. Oil, trade in, 545. Oilet, Oillet, see Voillet. Opee, see Peoria. Orange juice, trade in, 36. Ordinance of 1787, effect of, on slavery among French, 488,493, 503, 308, 509. Orphelin, Charles Chevallier, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Orphelin, Jacques Boutiliet, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Orphelin, Louis Meterrer, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Orr, James, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Otis, memorial of R. Flint, referred to, 489; report of, on memorial of G. Morgan, 490. Otter, trade in, 5, 15, 21. Ouabenaki Indians, origin of name of, 35, n. 1; trade with, 35. Ouiatanon (Wea, Weeya) Indians, allies of French, 186, 187; hostility of, 504; treaty of, with J. Hamtramck, 508, 5°9- Owen, Robert, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Oyo River, see Ohio River. Pagé, signs memorial to Virginia com- missioners, 344; summoned to Court, Page, Etienne, hostility of, to R. Win- ston, 344, n. 1; resident of Kaskas- kia, 417, 417, n. 34; signs memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344. Pagé, Joseph, resident of Kaskaskia, 418; signs contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244; witnesses sale of notariat, 308. Paine, Thomas, policy of, in regard to Northwest, 210, n. 1; Public Good by, referred to, 210, n. 1. Paissa, mentioned, 92. Pancore, Pancour, see St. Louis. Panet, notary at Quebec, 561. Paper, scarcity of, 1, 345.
Page 668
668 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTION Paper money, see Continental Currency. Papers of the Continental Congress, referred to, xxx, n. 2. Pare, see De la Parc. Parent, buys negro, 377. Parker, Joseph, bearer of: letter from Congress, 424, 430, petition of French to Congress, 381, 391, n. 1, 410, 410, n. 1, 410, n. 2; land grant to, 471, 472, 483; letter of, to A. St. Clair, 410; memorial of, to Congress, 489; petitions Congress for land, 449. 45°. 45°. n- i, 451- Parkman, Francis, Conspiracy of Pon- tinc by, referred to, 18, n. 2. Partiamentary History, referred to, 353. n- 2- Passport, demanded by F. Cruzat, 297; fee charged for, 16; issued by P. de Rocheblave, 41; requested by G. Cerré, 49; required of immigrants, 286. Patoka, chief of Cahokia Indians, 39. Payet, Father Louis, biog. notice of, 535, n. 1; letter to, from P. de St. Pierre, 532; mission of, to Illinois, xxxv. Pelletier (Pelethie, Pelthier, Peltie, Peltier) dit Antaya, Antoine, Sr., hostility of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, memorial to Vir- ginia commissioners, 344, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 289, petition to governor of Virginia, 239; testi- mony of, in Court of Enquiry, 32; votes, 301. Pelletier, Antoine, Jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 417; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, contract with B. Tardiveau, 442, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 289, petition to governor of Virginia, 239. Pelletier, Josephte, marries Noel Joseph Doza, 417, n. 33. Pelletier, Louis, candidate for office, 271. Pelletier, Michel, casts vote in election, 269; resident of Kaskaskia, 416; outrages committed by, 515, 515, n. 3; signs: as arbiter, 501, agree- ment, 409, contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, petition to gov- ernor of Virginia, 239. Pelletier, Toniche, casts vote in elec- tion, 271. Peltries, furnished to 487; trade in, 13c «5. 333. 345. 379 used as currency, n 130. 131. 149. 15Ç 345. 379. 455. 579- Peltry fund, action o: in regard to, 151, by J. Todd, and: 150; purchased b 130, 131, 133; takt ston, 195. Pemplin, John, signs Tardiveau, 445. Pentecost, Colonel Dc of, 362, n. 1; instr Harrod, xix; prese Congress, 362. Peoria (Opee), expedi Perinault, student at . Perle, see La Perle. Perrault (Perault, Pen çois, note in favor of, against letters of 100, 101. Perrault, Captain M dishonesty, 279; Bentley, 221, J. Do trate, 79, 278; sel Montgomery, 149; witness, 278; testi Winston, 274, 277,: witness of contract, Perrien [Perrier ?], of Prairie du Roc contract with B. 1 Perrier [Perrien ?], Prairie du Rocher, tract with B. Tardi Perth ius, clerk of C 26; signs testimonj quiry, 26, 27, 29, 3 36, 38, 39. 4o. Peters, John, residen signs contract wit 445- Peterson, Gabriel, si; Congress, 368. Petition, to M. I Baugy, 391, J. Du Carleton from: D. Murray, 4, 10; from Kaskaskians, to A. Comte from ] to commissioners 1 Kaskaskians, 329, from: F. Carbonm
Page 669
INDEX 669 M. Bentley, 431, R. Flint, 489, French in Illinois, 7, n., 360, 369, 370, 381, 391, 413, 419. 430, 421, n. 1, 437, 438, 438, n. i, 439, 485, 491, G. Morgan, 469, 483, 489, 490, 491, J. Parker, 489, B. Tardiveau, 421, n. 1, 437, 438, 438, n. 1, 439, 445, 447, 451. 454. 462, 466, 475, 485, 491; to Court of Kas- kaskia, from: T. Bentley, 220, 224, L. Boisdoré, 95, G. Cerré, 311, A. Chouteau, 300, A. Cottinault, 68, J. Datchurut, 311, M. Farqueson, 272, inhabitants of Bellefontaine, 294, Kaskaskians, 284, J. Labuxiere, 254, 274, P. Langlois, 256, R. M'Carty, 216, Preno, 276, H. Smith, 3j1; to De la Balme from Kaskas- kians, 189; to J. Hamtramck from Kaskaskians, 509; to J. Todd, from magistrates, 88; to Virginia from: T. Bentley, xx, Kaskaskians, 233, 329, 340, 424, 438, T. de Mon- breun, 355, 357, D. Murray, xx; to R. Winston, from P. Langlois, 308, n. 1, magistrates, 268, see lawsuit, memorial. Peysona, commandant at Ste. Gene- vieve, 507. Peyster, see De Peyster. Philadelphia, trade of, with Illinois, 2. Piankashaw (Peankeshaw, Piananshaw, Pianquicha) Indians, accompanied by J. M. P. Le Grass, 314; land cessions by, 463, 493, n. 1; hos- tility of, 513, 515, n. 3, 516; weak- ness of, 504. Piastre, value of, 103, n. 1. Picard (Piccard), Pierre, antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; candidate for office, 269; casts vote in election, 269; election of, 269, 270; land grant to, 354; magistrate, 309; oath of, 270; resident of Kas- kaskia, 129; sells land to A. Morin, 354; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 243, memorial to Virginia commissioners, 344, peti- tion to governor of Virginia, 240; testimony of, in Court of Enquiry, 31; upheld in land title, 355; see De Girardot [ ?f. Pierre, testimony of, in Court of En- quiry, 36. Piggott, James, Sr., biog. notice of, referred to, 421, n. 5; resident of Illinois, 421; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Piggott, James, Jr., resident of Illinois, 421. Piggott, Joseph, resident of Illinois, 421. Piggott, Levi, resident of Illinois, 421. Piggott, William, resident of Illinois, 421. Pilar, candidate for office, 301. Pilier [Pilleste?], votes in election, 301. Pilleste [Pillet, Pilier?], Louis, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442; votes in election, 86, 301. Pilleste, Marie Barbe, marries Michel Danis, 414, n. 6. Pillet, see Pilleste. Pinckney, petition of French referred to, 383; report of, on government of Illinois, 370, 391. Pintard, John, translates: answers of G. Cerré, 385, letter, 532. Pirates, on Mississippi River, 373, 374. Pittman, Philip, Present State of the European Settlements on the Missis- sippi by, referred to, 492, n. 1. Pittsburg, Indian treaty at, 1, 1, n. 2; trade of, with Illinois, 2, 3. Pittsburg Carnegie Library, G. Mor- gan's Letter Books in, 3, n. 1. Placard, of: Court concerning sale of property, 299, J. Dodge concerning M. Bentley 397, R. Winston, concerning notariat, 260; see Proclamation. Placis, Plasi, Plasy, see Duplasy. Pogue, William Lindsay, possessor of letter of W. Beckley, 348. Point Pleasant, battle at, 109, n. 1. Polette, candidate for office, 301. Pollock (Polick) Oliver, agent of Vir- ginia in New Orleans, xviii, 146, 197, n- 1. 3M. 331. 334. 336; financial difficulties of 146; letters of exchange on, 99,197,197, n. 1. Pouceau, see Du Ponceau. Pondiac (Pontiac), goes to Detroit, 44. Pontbriand, Bishop, ordination of P. H. de la Valinière by, xxxviii. Pontiac, Conspiracy of, 105, n. 1. Poor, fines for support of, 117. Poor, Aaron, signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 295. Population, increase of, 369; of: Kas- kaskia, 414, Illinois, 369, 383, 385, Prairie du Rocher, 419, 449, Vin- cennes, 369. Populus, Louis, Sieur de St. Photes marries Marie Joachine, 416, n. 21. Pork, furnished to Indians, 358; trade in, 118, 132.
Page 670
670 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Proclamation of 1763, land grants under, 384, n. 3. Promissory note, of J. Harrod and J. Williams, 59, 60. Prose (Prosps), mentioned, 404, 405. Proter, Colonel, régiment of, at Fort Pitt, 167. Protest, against: arrest, 274, 403, élec- tion, 405, letters of exchange, 98, soldiers, 136, 140. Proveau (Provôt), conductor of T. Bentley's boat, 95; contribution of, to troops, 116; résident of Kaskaskia, 417. Provet, candidate for office, 269. Provisions, see supplies. Public Good, Virginia land claims op- posed in, 210, n. 1. Québec, diocèse of, xxxiii, xxxiv, xxxv, n. 4, 595; J. Dodge prisoner at, 119, 120, 122; land grant by Bishop of, 462; letter of Bishop of, to: J. Carroll, 602, Gravé, xli; letter to Bishop of, from: J. Carroll, 581, 581, n. 1, S86> S93. 599. P- H. de la Valiniere, xlv, 558, P. Gibault, xxix, xxxi, 520, 534, 583; occupied by British, 2. Quiquête, contribution of, to troops, 116. Quirk, Captain, purchases bacon, 125. Racine (Rasine), contribution of, to troops, 116; signs pétition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139. Râper, Daniel, résident of Illinois, 422. Rastel, see De Rocheblave. Read, report of, on govemment of Illinois, 371, 373. Reatherford, Larkin, résident of Illinois, 421, 421, n. 8; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 443. Reaume (Reaulme, Roume), Paul, Sr., marries Marie Louise Lasoude, 418, n. 45; résident of Kaskaskia, 418; signs pétition to: Court at Kaskaskia, 139, governor of Virginia, 240. Reaume, Paul, Jr., résident of Kas- kaskia, 418. Reaume, Pierre, résident of Kaskas- kia, 418. Reckner, Roonrod, land grant to, 351. Records oj the American Catholic His- toricalSociety oj Philadelphia,re(eTTed to, 581, n. 1, 599, n. 1. Reddick (Redrick), Robert, résident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau. 445. Porter, John, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Portneuf, see De Portneuf. Post Vincennes, see Vincennes. Potatoes, trade in, 118. Pothier (Potier), Father Pierre, biog. notice of, 131, n. 1; letter to, from J. Dodge, 120. Pottowattomie (Petowatomie) Indians, hostility of, 503; proclamation to, of St. Germain, 157. Poupart, Joseph, marries Marie Louise Chenier, 417, n. 29. Powder, needed by army, 159; supplied to M. de la Balme, 193, 194; trade in, 3, 4. 19. 31. 32, 33< 34» 36. '59. 164. Prairie de Vache, see Prairie du Rocher. Prairie du Rocher (de Vache), J. B. Barbau commandant at, 18, 232, 322, n. 1; census of, 419; commons in, 463; contract of inhabitants of, with B. Tardiveau, 440; P. H. de la Valiniere, at, 577; disorders in, 447, 568; élection at, 84, 85, 291; French in, 449; grant of, by De Boisbriant, 416, n. 21; land grant to inhabitants of, 481; military rule in, 69; pétition of inhabitants of, to Congress, 419, 420, 447, 454, 462, 463, 466, 47L 47S. 477. 481, 482, 482, n. 1; popula- tion of, 449, 479; tannery at, 71; B. Tardiveau agent for, 440. Preno, Pierre, pétition of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 276; signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prévost, 243, pétition to Court at Kaskaskia, 289, pétition to governor of Virginia, 239; syndic, 276. Prévost (Prevot, Proveau?, Provôt?), Pierre, contract of, with Kaskaskians, 241; mission of, to Virginia, 241, 242, 245; power of attorney granted to, 241, n. 1, 245; signs pétition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139. Procès Verbal, of death of J. F. T. Carton, 386, 387, 388, 389. Proclamation, of: G. Cerré on exports, 101, G. R. Clark on slaves, 64; Court at Kaskaskia on liquor trade, 117, Count d'Estaing to Canadians, 121, French King to Indians, 120, J. Montgomery on exports, 127, J. St. Germain to Indians, 156, J. Todd on exports, 101, n. 1, Virginia commissioners to creditors, 317; see Placard. ^

This page contains an image.
Page 671
INDEX 671 Redrick, see Reddick. Reihl, marries Miss Camp, 570. Relhier, Henry, signs: contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 289, petition to governor of Virginia, 239. Renaud, see Reneaux. Reneaux (Renaud, Renous), Antoine, contribution of, to troops, 116; signs petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 139, 289. Renous, see Reneaux. Retribution Grant, interest in, of, Baynton, Wharton and Morgan, 3, n. 1; managed by G. Morgan, 2, n. 2. Revolution, blocks trade, 2; cause of, in: Canada, 53, 55, 56, 57, 64, Illi- nois, xv, 12, 19, 47, n. 1, 48, 51, 80, 208, Northern States, 158; success in, of: British, 174, 175, colonists, 2, 45. 53. 54, 75. 1°4, I22'< sympathy in, of traders, 2, n. 1, 4, 7, n. 1. Reynolds, John, historical mistakes of, 421, n. 1, 423, n. 20, 423, n. 23; Pioneer History of Illinois by, re- ferred to, 421, n. 1, 421, n. 2, 421, n. 8, 421, n. 11, 422, n. 13, 422, n. 15, 423, n. 20, 423, n. 21, 423, n. 23, 423, n. 25. Richard (Richar), B., signs as arbiter, 501. Richard, Henry, candidate for office, 302; casts vote in election, 301; death of, 504; signs commission of R. Winston, 317, 317, n. 1. Richard, P., signs: as arbiter, 501, as witness, 308, commission, 317, memorial to Congress, 368, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 200; sup- porter of: J. Dodge, 368, n. 1, R. Winston, 317, n. 1. River A Marie, land grant on, 92, 487. Robert, Françoise, marries Antoine Bienvenu, 416, n. 24. Robin, Charles, Sr., biog. notice of, 415, n. 15; resident of Kaskaskia, 415- Robins, William, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Robinson, Andrew, letter of, to J. Dodge, 105. Rocheblave, see De Rocheblave. Rock River, expedition to, 198, 198, n. 2. Rogers, Benjamin, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Rogers, Colonel John, accusations against 236, 242,273,338, 339,424, n. 5, 425; accuses French of treachery, 238; aided by J. Dodge, 236; arrival of, at Sullivans Station, 248; de- mands: justice for T. Bentley, 211, 236, supplies for troops, 206; de- parture of: for Fort Pitt, 11o, for St. Louis, 106, from Illinois, 238, 248; duties of, 323; friend of T. Bentley, xxiv; gives oath to T. Bent- ley, 221; government by, 236, 242, 338. 339; inquiries of Court about, 206; joins G. R. Clark, 149; letter of, to Magistrates of Kaskaskia, 206, 211; letter to, from magistrates of Kaskaskia, 207, 212; promises ret- ribution to French, 214; relative of G. R. Clark, 338; succeeds J. Mont- gomery, 197, 206, 206, n. 1, 221, 222, 236, 323, 338; supplies refused to, 209; threatens dissolution of Court, 211, 236; witness for T. Bentley, xxi, 223; mentioned, 127. Rogers, Phillips David, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Roume, see Reaume. Rousseau, resident of Kaskaskia, 419. Roy, Marie Anne, marries: Charles Robin, 415, n. 15, Joseph St. Pierre, 415, n. 16, Antoine Thaumur, 415, n. 16. Royer, Angelique, marries Jean Bte. St. Pierre, 415, n. 16. Royer, Joseph, resident of Kaskaskia, 417. Ruland, mentioned, 151. Rue, see La Rue. Rum, trade in, 5, 31, 33, 34. Rumsey, James, biog. notice of, 90, n. 1; house of, attacked by Indians 90. Rundell, Josiah, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Rundell, Seth, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Ryan, Josiah, at Eagle River, 421, n. 3; resident of Illinois, 421; signs con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Sabt6nieres, see La Sabtonieres. Sac (Sauk) Indians, hostility of, 21, 22, 516. St. Ange, messenger, 396; see St. Onge. St. Anne de la Pocatière, P. H. de la Valinière at, xxxix. St. Asaph, Major Knox at, 26. St. Campus, J., notary, 16.
Page 672
672 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS St. Clair, Arthur, arrival of, at Kas- kaskia, 6, n. 3, 507, 512, 514, 514, n. 1; departure of, for the Northwest, 466; letter to, from J. Parker, 410; organization of government by, 467; treaty of, with Indians, 466. St. Duski, see Sandusky. St. Gemme, see Bauvais, Jean Bte. St. Gemme. Ste. Genevieve, or Misere, Bauvais family settles at, 415, n. 8; com- munication of, with Kaskaskia, 358; P. de St. Pierre at, 571; LordE. Fitzgerald at, 516; P. Gibault at, xxxiii; J. B. Janis moves to, 420, n. 64; Lachanse family settles at, 50, n. 1; Moro commandant at, 402; trade of, with Illinois, 48, 102, 411. St. Germain (Jermain), Jean de, mis- sion of, to Indians, 156, 156, n. 1, 178; opposed by P. de Rocheblave, 178. St. Jean Port Joly, P. H. de la Valinière at, xxxix. St. Jem, St. Jemme, see Bauvais, Jean Bte. St. Gemme. St. Joseph, Louis Chevalier at, 45, 46; mentioned, 123. St. Louis (Paincour, Pancou), attack of British feared at, 376; Brazeaux family removes to, 19, n. 1; com- munication of, with Cahokia, 358; F. Cruzat commandant at, 297, 297, n. 1, 299; M. de la Balme at, 189; B. de Limpach at, 520, 520, n. 3; Lord E. Fitzgerald at, 516; J. Le- Dru at, 591, n. 1; R. M'Carty at, 126; notice of commissioners in, 319; purchase of supplies at, 106, 149; subject to New Orleans, 509; trade of, with: Illinois, 130, 411, Michil- limackinac, 509, New Orleans, 187; troops at, 517. St. Louis Republican, referred to, 494, n. 1. St. Onge (Ange), Jean Baptiste, horse given to, 396; signs memorial to Congress, 367. St. Philippe (Philipe), disorders in, 447; election at, 84; land grant to in- habitants of, 481; petition of in- habitants of, to Congress, 447, 454, 462, 465, 466, 471, 475, 477, 481, 482, 482, n. 1; population of, 449, 479; residence of: M. Bouvet, 419, n. 54, C. Cadron, 18, P. de Girardot, 18, n. 1. St. Pierre, Alexis Desrousses dit, Jr., résident of Kaskaskia, 418. St. Pierre, François, marries Marie Josephte Turpin, 415, n. 16; resident of Kaskaskia, 415. St. Pierre, Jean Baptiste, Sr., marries Angélique Royer, 415, n. 16; resident of Kaskaskia, 418. St. Pierre, Jean Baptiste, Jr., resident of Kaskaskia, 417. St. Pierre, Jérôme, résident of Kaskas- kia, 415. St. Pierre, Joseph, marries Marianne Roy, 415, n. 16; resident of Kaskas- kia, 418. St. Pierre, Michel, marries Thérèse Devignat, 414, n. 3; resident of Kaskaskia, 418. St. Pierre, Father Paul de, see De St. Pierre. St. Pierre, Philippe, resident of Kas- kaskia, 415. St. Photes, see Populus. St. Sulpice, land grant to priests of, 463. Ste. Ursules (Urseuls, Ursuls), Americans at, 46; R. M'Carty at, 44, 45. St. Vincens, Vincents, see Vincennes. Salt, manufacture of, 215, 419, n. 54; trade in, 33, 249. Sandusky (St. Duski), P. Boyle a merchant at, 105. Sandwich, Ontario, Huron mission at, 121, n. 1. Sanguinet, notary at Québec, 561. Sargent, contract of, with Congress, 450. Saucier, François, signs letter to P. H. de la Valinière, 557, Seminary of Quebec, 566, 567. Sauteur Indians, proclamation to, from J. de St. Germain, 157. Sauvage, Marie Anne, marries Fran- çois, Barrois, 418, n. 51. Sayre, receives money from J. Buck- hanan, 126. Scott, James, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Schiffelin (Scheteling), Lieutenant, lieu- tenant of Detroit volunteers, 174. Schuyler, Peter, uncle of A. S. De Peyster, 17, n. 1. Searsy, mentioned, 75. Seeley, John, not in census, 421, n. 1. Seguin, dit Laderoute, Jacques, killed by Indians, 416, n. 25. Seguin, Jean Baptiste, resident of Kas- kaskia, 416. y

This page contains an image.
Page 673
INDEX 673 Seguin, Louis, biog. notice of, 51; dep- osition of, 51; messenger of G. R. Clarke, to Vincennes, 51; resident of Kaskaskia, 416. Seguin, Marianne, marries Jacques Devignais, 414, n. 3. Seminary of Foreign Missions at Que- bec, jurisdiction of, over Northwest, 588; land grant by, 568, to, 463; letter to, from Cahokians, 560; pow- ers granted by, to P. Gibault, 561; property of, 596; rights of P. H. de la Valiniere in, 558. Senate Journal, referred to, 491, n. 1, 596, n. 1, 597, n. 1, 601, n. 1. Sevems, Ebenezer, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 443. Seybold, Robert, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 444. Shaney, William, resident of Illinois, 422. Shannon (Shannone), Captain William, act for relief of, 132; commissary and quarter-master, 102, 102, n. 1, 103, 130, 146; estimate by, of J. Todd, 131; letter of, to: , 130, G. R. Clark, 248; receives money from J. Buckhanan, 126; mentioned, 314. Shawnee (Shawanoe, Shawnie) In- dians, calmed by G. Linctot, 163; conference of, with Lord E. Fitz- gerald, 516; expedition of G. R. Clark against 148, 170; hostility of, 147, 313. 51D; removal of, 147; treaty with, 1, n. 2. Shea, J. M., Life and Times of Arch- bishop John Carroll by, referred to, xxxiii, n. 1, xxxiv, n. 1, xxxv, n. 2, xxxv, n. 3, xxxv, n. 4, xxxvi, n. 1, xxxvi, n. 2, xxxvi, n. 3, xxxvi, n. 4, xxxvii, n. 1, 510, n. 1, 534, n. 1, 535, n- I. 546, n. 1, 581, n. 1, 591, n. 1, 592, n. 1. Shelby, Captain, instructed to raise troops, 148. Sheriff, bond of, 87, 88; duties of, 88, 97; payment of, 144. Shot, supplied to M. de la Balme, 193; trade in, 33, 34, 36. Shultze, Daniel, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Silver Heels, biog. notice of, 1, n. 2. Simmons, William, prisoner at Detroit, 5°3- Simonan, Antoine, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Simonan, Francois, Sr., resident of Prairie du Rocher 420. Simonan, Francois, Jr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Sinclair, Margaret, R. Winston's wife, 1,n. 1, see Turguerson, Marguerite. Skins, trade in, 248: used as currency, 88, 147; see Peltries. Slaughter, George, letter of, to T. Jefferson, 215. Slaughter, Major John, joins G. R. Clark, 145, 423, n. 19; misappro- priates provisions, 248. Slaughter, John, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Slaves, assemblies, of, 288; baptism of, 580; Black Code for, 64, 65, 91, 93, 288; cause trouble, 65; feasts of, 65,66; hanging of, 97; Indians used as. 93. 117, 231; m: Illinois, 30, 91, 93. 97, 137, 19°. 2°4. 231, 377, 383, 385, 387, 39°. 397, 432, 433. 445. n- 1, Northwest, 45, 488; manumission of, 231, 565; marriage of, 574; mis- conduct of, 91; owned by French, 241, 310, 377, 383, 385, 387, 396, 402, 432, 433, 488, 493, 508, 509, 564, 565; petition concerning, sent to G. R. Clark 64, 65; proclamation of G. R. Clark on, 64; questions of Congress on, 383; sale of liquor to, forbidden, 65, 91, 93, 204, 288; trade: in, 7, 310, with, 65, 67, 91, 93, 117, 118, 204, 288; under Ordinance of 1787, 488, 493, 503, 509. Smallpox infests New Orleans, 8. Smith, W. H. St. Clair Papers by, re- ferred to, 410, n. 1, 426, n. 4, 446, n. 1, 45°. n- 2- Smith, petition of French referred to, 383; report of, on government of the Northwest, 391, 399, n. 1. Smith, Christopher, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Smith, Elijah, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Smith, G., declines appointment, 313. Smith, Henry, commission of, as justice, 402, issues warrant, for arrest 403; land owned by, 349; petition of, to Court at Kaskaskia, 251, 253; protest of M. Bouvet, against 403; signs: com- mission, 317, contract with B. Tar- diveau, 444, memorial to Congress, 367; summoned as witness, 280; supports: J. Dodge, 368, n. 1, R.
Page 674
674 ILLINOIS HISTOB ICAL COLLECTIONS Winston, 317, n. 1; testimony of, vs. R. Winston, 281, 282. Smith, Isaac, petition of, to Congress 469. Smith, Nicholas, buys horse of H. Smith, 251; elected magistrate, 296 421, n. 4; resident of Illinois, 421; signs: commission, 317, contract with B. Tardiveau, 444, memorial to Congress, 368; supports: J. Dodge, 368, n. 1, 317, n. 1. Smith, William, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Soudraye, see De Monbreun. Soumande (Sumendre), surnames of family of, 417, n. 36. Soumande, Marie Josephte, marries Mathurin Bouvet, 419, n. 54. Soumande, Michel, resident of Kas- kaskia, 417. Soumande, René, birth of, 417, n. 36; acts as witness, 405; antagonism of, to R. Winston, 344, 344, n. 1; resi- dent of Kaskaskia, 417; signs: as witness, 388, 389, memorial to Vir- ginia commissioners, 344, petition to Court at Kaskaskia, 289; votes in election, 301. Spain, attitude of R. Winston, towards, 275, n. 1, 304, 321; alliance of, with United States, 298; ascendency of, in West, xlix, 1; declares war against England, 64, 119, 122; desires de- population of Illinois, 516; encour- ages cultivation of tobacco, 410; encroachments of, 357; excites In- dians, 514; forbids trade with Ameri- cans, 509; neutrality of, 179; offers of, to: immigrants, xlix, 410, 507, T. de Monbreun, 357, J. Edgar, 516; relations of, with Illinois, 296, 297, 298, 299, 300, 311, 321, 357, 373, 375, 377; subjects of: court mar- tialed, 458, given paper money, 331, 332; trade with, 369, 411. States attorney, powers of, 94, 282, 384. Stephens, General Edward, commands Virginia troops, 138; serves in French and Indian war, 109, n. 1. Stephenson, Samuel, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Stevenson, Joseph, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Stewart, William, agent for J. Lindsay, 347- Steynmeyer, Ferdinand, see Farmer, Ferdinand, 546, n. 1. Stirling, Captain, arrival of, in Illinois, 90, n. 1. Stockton, Richard, petition of, to Con- gress, 469. Stockton, Samuel W., petition of, to Congress, 469. Story, Ephriam, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Stroud, trade in, 3. Sugar, cultivation of, 353, 463; trade in, 31. Sullivan, Daniel, joins expedition against Indians, 508; messenger, 505, 506. Sullivan (Suleven), Captain John, car- ries letter, 248; officer under G. R. Clark, 422, n. 16; resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 444. Suite, Benjamin, notes by, 415, n. 9, 415, n. 17, 416, n. 25, 417, n. 36, 418, n. 51. Su1ts, Daniel, resident of Illinois, 422. Supplies, collection of, 114, 347; de- mands for, of: J. Montgomery, 113, 114, u5, 123, 128, 139, n. 1, 150, 150, n. 1, 198, 233, 234, 335, 455, J. Rogers, 206, 209; J. Edgar offers, 511; French refuse to grant, 129, 209; furnished by French, 116, 137, 33°. 331. 333. 335. 337. 341. 345. 363,426,454,455,458; Indians sup- plied with, 157, 187, 193, 199, 356, 357- 358. 5°6; lack of. 123, "7, 143. 150. 159. 326. 4". 5°5. 5°6, 5°7; promised by T. Jefferson to G. R Clark, 147, purchase of, 130, 131, 147, 331. 333. 333. 335. 33°. 363; waste of, 141, 314, 455-. Sylvester, testimony of, in Court of Enquiry, 31. Symmes, John C., petitions Congress for land, 450, 450, n. 1. Syndic, complains about fences, 276; election of, 276; support of, by Court, 277, 287. Taffia, trade in, 5, 31, 33, 455- Tailor, John, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Tallow, trade in, 545; used as currency, 299. Tamarois Indians, missions to, 588, 602. Tangué, François, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Tangué, Joseph, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420; votes for judge, 86.
This page contains an image.
Page 675
INDEX 67S Tannery, at Prairie du Rocher, 71. Tardiveau (Tardieu, Tardivau), Bar- thelemi, biog, notice of, referred to, 445, n. 2; accompanies J. Harmar, 426, 430, 445, n. 2; accusations against by: P. H. de la Valinière, 426, 427, 430, 451. 548, n. 3, P. Langlois, 437, 438, 439, 451; as agent of French asks Congress for land, 443, 446, 447, 449. 454. 462, 466, 475. 485, 491; at: Falls of Ohio, 430, Kaskaskia, 426, 569. 573. Vincennes, 573; attempts deception, 437; attitude of Congress towards, 485; basis for memorials of, 445, n. 2; buys fort, 439; census made for, 414, 421, n. 1; certifies translation, 554, 558, 569, 573, 581; characterization of, 452, 453; cir- culates petition, 437; congressional action on memorials of, 465, 466, 471, 475, 481, 482, 482, n. 1, 491, n. 1, 494; contract of, with Americans, 443, 452. 453. French, 440, 441, n. 1, 452, 453; death of, 445, n. 2; demands of, on Cahokians, 568; difficulties of, 494; friend of: I. Dodge, 430, J. Dodge, 437; in: Illinois, 445, n. 2, New York, 453, 462, 468; intrigue of, with J. Dodge, 439; justification of, to Congress, 451, 452, 543; land scheme of, xlvi, 427, 431, 437, 440, 441, 447, 448, 460, 461, 461, n. 1, 462, 484, 486, 494, 568; letter of, to J. Bau- vais, 494, P. de St. Pierre, 567, Presi- dent of Congress, 451; letter to, from: P. de St. Pierre, xlv, 567, 570, J. Hamtramck, 509; memorial of, to Congress, 445, 447, 454, 462, 465, 466,471,475,485,486,491; mission of, to Congress, 494; notifies J. Ham- tramck of emigration, 509; obtains Kaskaskian papers, 241, n. 1, 445, n. 2; opposed by P. H. de la Valinière, xlvi; petitions of, to Congress, 421, n. 1, 438, 438, n. 1; promises land to P. de St. Pierre, 568; proposals of G. Morgan to, 494; purchases land from J. Dodge, 349; religious faith of, 453, n. 2; replies to accusations, 451, 452, 453. Tardiveau Papers of Menard Collec- tion, 241, n. 1, 445, n. 2. Taumer, dit Lasource, see Lasource. Tea, trade in, 36. Terrier, Joseph, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442; votes in election, 292. Tête, La Grosse, capture of, 503. Thai, Livig, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 445. Thaumur, dit Lasource, see Lasource. Theel, Levi, signs as arbiter, 501. Thibaud, François, Sr., resident of Kaskaskia, 418. Thibaud, Francois, Jr., resident of Kas- kaskia, 418. Thomer, dit Lasource, see Lasource. Thompson (Thomson), Charles, letter of, to Kaskaskians, 437; letter to, from P. H. de la Valinière, 424, P. Lang- lois, 436; situation in Illinois, de- scribed to, 424, 425, 426, 427, 428. Thwaites, Reuben Gold, Descriptive List of MS. Coltections of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin by, referred to, 376, n. 1; Dunmore's War by, referrred to, 75, n. 3, 76, n. 3, 109, n. 1, 362, n. 1; Jesuit Relations by, referred to, 492, n. 1; Revolution on the Upper Ohio by, referred to, xix, n. 1, xx, n. 1, 1 n. 2, 12, n. 4, 105, n. 1. Tibau, Pierre, French deserter, 167. Tibault (Thibault, Tibau, Tibaut, Ti- baux, Tibot), Alexis, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Tibault, Charles, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Tibault, François, Sr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419; signs con- tract with B. Tardiveau, 442; votes in election, 86, 292. Tibault, François, Jr., resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Tibault, Henri, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 419. Tibault, Joseph, marriage of, 415, n. 16; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 442. Tielskrer, Louis, acts as bailiff, 525. Tobacco, cultivation of, 41: trade in, 118, 187; used as currency, 88, 144. Todd, John, ability of 64, 82; advo- cates suppression of Indian liquor trade, 117; appointed County Lieu- tenant, 61, 63, 75, n. 1, 81; appoint- ment by, of: N. Janis, 18, n. 4, R. Winston, 150, 334; arrival of, in Illinois, 106, 131, 333, 384; assists G. R. Clark, 63; at Vincennes, 97, 131, 131, n. 1; attitude of, towards French, 83, 84; debtor to R. Win- ston, 150; demands bond from R. Winston, 87; departure of, from
Page 676
676 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS Illinois, 131, 131, n. 1, 133, 133, n. 1, 149; dishonesty of, 333; establishes court at: Kaskaskia, 6, n. 3, 18, n. 4, 18, n. 5, 236, 259, 333, 334, 384, 408, Vincennes, 507, n. 2; fails to obtain supplies, 129; financial policy of, 131, 131, n. 1, 132, 333; government regulations brought by, 427; hos- tility to, 133, n. 1; Illinois conditions reported to, 195, 196; issues: cer- tificate, 86, 87, commission warrant, 97, 106; letter of, to: G. R. Clark, 75, 97, 106, 127, 128, 158, W. Flem- ing, 109, President of Congress, 229, R. Winston, 98, 195; letter to, from: J. Dodge, 159, T. Jefferson, 143, Kaskaskians, 215, R. M'Carty, 334, n. 1, R. Winston, 195; member of court, 79; accused of misuse of funds 149; notices of, in, 129, 130; offers services as surveyor, 229; opinion of, on government of Illinois, no; orders Court to reassemble, 106; petition to, from magistrates, 88-94; powers of, 61, 63, 333, 390; prohibits exportation, 101, n. 1; property of, in Kentucky, no; pur- chases peltry, 128, 333; reception of, by French, 82, 83; refuses peltry to J. Montgomery, 128; sends appointment to F. Charleville, 98; speech of, to Kaskaskians, 83; sum- mons Court, 106, 107, in; surveyor for college of William and Mary, 229; threats of, to Kaskaskians, 129; treatment of French by, 131, 333, 334; R. Winston deputy of, 227. Todd, Robert, accompanies G. R. Clark, 128. Toilon, Simon, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Tomur, Tomure, dit Lasource, see Lasource. Torton, signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 442. Toulouze (Toulouse), Damours dit, contribution of, to troops, 116; huissier, 498; resident of Kaskaskia, 415; votes in election, 269, 271. Toulouze, Alexandre, resident of Kas- kaskia, 417. Toulouze, Blaize, Sr., resident of Kaskaskia, 415. Toulouze, François, resident of Kas- kaskia, 415. Toulouze, Henry, resident of Kaskaskia, 415- Toulouze, Jean Baptiste,!rial to Congress, 368. Toulouze, Joseph, Sr., resikaskia, 417. Toulouze, Joseph, Jr., Kaskaskia, 417. Toulouze, Noel, resident ol 415- Toulouze, Pierre, resident o 418; signs petition to Virginia [?], 240. Touranjeau (Tourangea, Tourengeau, Tourrangtdidate for office, 269; cor to troops, 116; testimony of Enquiry, 24, 30; votes 269, 271. Toumier, Louis, accused 0 526, 527; letter of, to J. ( lawsuit of, vs. P. de St. 530; petition of, to N. La 5". 523. 529; signs: as 1 minutes, 524, 529; urges de St. Pierre, 529. Townships, laying out of, 480. Trade, abuses of, 196; attitt of P. Henry, 61; between Detroit, 33, 173, 411, 45; 2, 3, 19, 31, England, 41 369, Michillimackinac, 4 455, 462, Missouri, 48 172, 411, Natchez, 35- Orleans, 7, 132, 160, 19 334. 334, n. 1, 379, 380 455, 457, 462. 5°7, Ste. 48, 102, 411, St. Louis West Florida, 42, Virgi: 143; between: Louisiana 1 369, Michillimackinac ar 509, New Orleans and 507, St. Louis and New C Vincennes and New Oi condition of, in Illinois, 5. *5. 37. 38. 43. 4crease of, 448, 457, 462, 5 in, settled by arbiters, 2< on, of: continental cui 363, Detroit expedition, 1! conspiracy, 2, n. 2, Re in: beans, 118, beaver, clothes, 32, beef, 132, coffee, 31, 33, corn, 12, 187, 205, 248, 249, deer flour, 15, 34, 35, 114, 13 xv, xvii, 7, 15, 21, 39, 4 455. 470, guns, 13, 31,; powder, xviii, 3, 4, 11, t
Page 677
INDEX 677 13. M. 19. 31. 33. 34. 36, 159. 164, hides, 71, horses, 2, 251, 252, 253, land, 77, 78, 79, lead, 32, 33, 34, 159, liquor, 14, 15, 21, 21, n. 1, 27, 28, 29, 3°. 31. 33. 34. 35. 36, 39. 9°. 9*. 93. 93, 112, 113, 117, 164, 204, 248, 287, 288. 345. 38z. 383. n. 2, 455, 536, 545, merchandise, 19, oil, 545, orange juice, 36, otter, 21, paper, 345, peltries, 130, 131, 149, 164, 215, 333, 345. 379. 448, 455. 546, pork, 118, 132, potatoes, 118, rum, 31, 33, 34, salt, 33, shot, 33, 34, 36, skins, 248, slaves, 7, 310, sugar, 31, taffia, 5, 31, 33, 455. tallow, 545, tea, 36, tobacco, 118, 187, wheat, 426, wine, 33, 36, 455; of: T. Bentley, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, French, 457, 460, 462, 479; on: Kentucky River, 33, Mississippi River, xvii, 7, 12, 12, n. 4, 15, 30, 34, 35, 132, 160, 187, 195, 215, 297, 334, 334. n. 1, 373, 374, 379, 380, 380, n. 1, 455, 457, 462, 507, Ohio River, 32, 36; post for: at Cahokia, 11, 13, 382, 382, n. 1, 395, 411, on Ohio River, 143; power of J. Mont- gomery over, 252; regulation of, 196; with: frontiersmen, 13, Indians, 4, n. 2, 5, 6, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21, 24, 25. '7, 2g. 29. 3°. 35. 39. 52. 75. 9°. 91, 11o, 117, 143, 148, 164, 170, 171, 172, 219, 287, 369, 395, 448, 460, 462, 470, 479, 517, 536, 545, slaves, 65, 67, 91, 93, 117, 118, 204, 288, Spaniards, 132, 411, 509. Traders, agreement of, concerning li- quor trade, 21, 21, n. 1,90; annual purchase of, 411; arbiters for, 20, 40; attitude of, towards: French, 37, 38, Revolution, 2, n. 1, 19, 20, 47, n. 1; competition among, 6, 381, 382, 395, 410; danger of, 46; establish Indiana Company, 2, n. 2; excite Indians, 514; flock west, 2, n. 2; from: Detroit, 410, Michilli- mackinac, 382, 410; habits of, 48; land grants to, 2, n. 2; passports de- manded of, 297; petition of, to G. Carleton, 4; protection of, 373, 374; treatment of, by: P. de Rocheblave, 4, 15, 20, 23, 26, 27, 28, 40, French, 382. Treaty of Fort Stanwix, land grants of, 2, n. 2, 3, n. 1. Trigg, Stephen, biog. notice of, 76, n. 3; land speculation of, 76, 78, 79. Troops of Virginia, arrival of, in Illinois, 331, 333, 341, 363, 454; attempt to govern, 195; attitude of R. Winston towards, 273, 279, 280, 281, 342, 345; clothing for, 125; complaint of Court at Kaskaskia against, 140; demolish rectory at Cahokia, 563; departure of, for Fort Jefferson, 197; desertion of, 126, 133, 217; destitute condition of, 133, 150, 198, 217, 248, 363, 395, 454, 457; discipline of, 126, 411; eat horses, 411; enlistment of, 198, 216, 457; excite Indians, 184; expulsion of, 187; extravagance of, 141, 314, 455; Kas- kaskians refuse to support, 209; left at Fort Clark, 206; mistreat French 88, 89, 92, 137, 141, 183, 191, 195, 199, 208, 234, 238, 338, 339, 341, 364, 365, 429, 563; need of, at Kaskaskia, 510, 513; passports required of, 286; payment of, 63; purchase merchan- dise, 455; refuse prison to civil gov- ernment, 195; J. Rogers demands supplies for, 206, 209; sent to defend Illinois, 81; services of, in Kaskaskia, 364, 455; sickness among, 506, 509, 511; supplies for, 63, 89, 92, 105, 113, 114, 115, 116, 126, 127, 137, 140, 149, 206, 208, 214, 216, 217, 233, 237, 248. 319. 335. 336, 341, 363. 367, 454. 455. 457, 458, 485, 5"; Vir- ginia unable to support, 143; with- drawal of, 183, 364, 365, 384. Trottier, dit Desruisseaux, see Des- ruisseaux. Turguerson, Margaret, [Farqueson?] wife of R. Winston, 1, n. 1, see Farqueson, Marguerite. Turjon, Nicolas, votes for judge, 86. Turner, Benjamin, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 444. Turner, F. J., article by, referred to, 48. Turpin, Marie Josephte, marries Fran- çois St. Pierre, 416, n. 16. Tythe, payment of, 575, 578. United States, attitude of French to- wards, 337, 340, 395; constitution of, 467; encroachments of F. Cruzat on, 374. 375. 1and cession to, from Vir- ginia, 361, 457, 473; obtain supplies in West, 9, 10, 12, 12, n. 4, 14, 19, 24, 35, 106, 11o; treaty of, with: France, 55. 56, 119, 120, 122, 157, 330, 454, Spain, 298; see Congress.
Page 678
678 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS United States Catholic Historical Magazine, referred to, 494. Val, candidate for office, 269. Valier, John, resident of Illinois, 422. Valinière (Vallinière), see De la Valin- ière. Vallé, François, commandant at Ste. Genevieve, 540, n. 1. Vallis, John, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 443. Vait, carries letter, 249. Vandike, Henry, petition of, to Con- gress, 469. Vasseur, see Levasseur. Vannatson, Elisha, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 444. Van Wickle, Evist, petition of, to Con- gress, 469. Vardon, Daniel, petition of, to Congress, 461. Vaudreuil, Marquis Louis Philippe de Rigaud de, French commander, 176; conference of, with G. Linctot, 177, View of the Title to Indiana, A Tract of Country on the River Ohio, referred to, 2, n. 2. Vigo, Francois, capture of, by Indians, 597; carries letter, 508, 597; debt of United States to, xxvi; payment of, 345; return of, 511. Villiers, acts as witness, 100. Vincennes (Post Vincent, St. Vincens, St. Vincent, Vincenne), Abbot gov- ernor of, 9, n. 1; address of inhabi- tants of, to M. de la Balme, 189, n. 1; Americans in, 449; attitude of Con- gress towards, 586; building of church at, 536; capture of, by: G. R. Clark, xxvi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, 16, n. 1, 18, n. 4, 51, 51, n. 1, 52, 51, n. 1, 73, n. 3, 75, 80, 81, 104, 106, 149, 168, 333, 395, 427, n. 2, 541, 585, H. Hamilton, 104, n. 4, 104, n. 5; charter of, 461, 478, 493 . 493. n- *j church property in, 593; commons in, 463; M. de la Balme at, 169; description of, by P. Gibault, xlvii, xlviii, 534, 535; dis- tance of, from Kaskaskia, 52; J. Dodge at, 151; establishment of Court at, 507, 507, n. 2; French in, 449; friendly to G. R. Clark, 51; Fort Patrick Henry at, 73; P. Gibault ob- tains ecclesiastical property at, 596; inhabitants of, on Detroi 187; letter to, from Boaresioners, 319; manufactui 463; meeting place for Dttion, 130; mission of P- xxvii, xxviii, xxix, xxxi, xs D. Murray at, 8; oath o of, xxx; organization of in, 467; petition of inha Congress, 454, 462, 46 475. 477, 481. 482. 482 population of, 369, 445 size of, 463; B. Tardivea 451, at, 573; testimony 1 in regard to, 51, 52; trac 248, 507, 537; trea'y °f' Clark, 412; J. Todd, at 1 Virginia, abandons Illinois, concerning Illinois, 26;points: Board of Comm Western affairs, 319, cor Northwest, 146, Indian 104, n. 1; asked to re money, 183; assembly oi R. Clark, 63, sends re-enf G. R. Clark, 60; T. Ber to government of, 223,: bonneaux sent as aget cession of Northwest by, 229, 361, 412, 446, 457, 4< claims of, opposed by 210, n. 1; complaints ol 241, n. 1, 242, 245, 315, 3 land grants, 476; conque by, xxi, 84, 182, 363, 45 248, 249; debts of, 146, 11 333. 336, 348, 487; diffi raising troops, 145; di French, 150; J. Dodge ag failure in, of R. Wins Carbonneaux, 369, n. distress of, 145, 146, 14'ernment of Illinois by, 8 114, 115, n6, 140, i4j 191, 195, 199, 201, 213, 2. 236, 237, 238, 273, 31( 332, 333. 334. 335. 33< 408, 409, 457; intercoui Illinois, 47; investigat affairs, 313, 313, n. 1, 31 346; land grants by, 14 488; La Jeunesse agent 1; laws of, in Illinois, 37 409; letter to governor c R. Clark, 144, W. Fleml Slaughter, 215, Shelby, ington, 148; manuscripts
Page 679
INDEX 679 n. 1; Martin, Cherokee agent for, 144; memorial to, from: T. de Monbreun, 355, 357, French, 340, 345, D. Murray, xx; military plans of, 145; mission of R. M'Carty and P. Pre- vost to, 242, 245; oath of allegiance to, 229, 270, 302; obtains money from France, 146; petition to, from T. Bentley, xx, French, 233, 424; per- mits use of French law, 286, 287; proclamation to creditors of, 317, 318; protects French in land cession, 412; raises troops for G. R. Clark, 148; refuses to recognize land claims of Indiana Company, 2, n. 2; sanctions settlement of Illinois, 446; sends: regulars to Illinois, 81, tobacco to France, 146; trade of, with Illinois, 31, 61, 75, 143; West- ern claims of, 210, 210, n. 1; R. Winston agent to, 315. Virginia State Papers, see Calendar of. Visger (Fishar), at: Detroit, 104, n. 2, Pittsburg, 122; letter to, from J. Dodge, 120. Vittmer, George, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Vittmer, Nicolas, resident of Prairie du Rocher, 420. Viviat, Louis, biog. notice of, 7, n. 2; commercial relations of, with: T. Bentley, 15, D. and W. Murray, 4, n. 2, 7, n. 1; death of, 49; drafts of, 133; note of L. Bomer to, 10; protest of, 7; will of, 123, n. 2. Voilett (Oilet, Voilette), Jean Baptiste, land grant to, 350, 351. Vouabekaki, see Ouabenaki. Wabash Indians, expedition against 507; poverty of, 506. Wabash Land Company, trade of, with Indians, 4, n. 2. Wabash River, British forces on, 52; Indian troubles on, 504; land sales on, 448, 449, 469, 472, 480, 483; posts on, 60. Waddle, Alexander, resident of Illinois, 423- Waddle, David, Sr., resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tar- diveau, 444; soldier under G. R. Clark, 423, n. 23. Waddle, David, Jr., resident of Illi- nois, 423. Waddle, Isaac, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Waddle, James, resident of Illinois, 423- . . Waddle, Jese, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Wadsworth, letter referred to, of: P. Langlois, 439, B. Tardiveau, 453; memorial of B. Tardiveau, referred to, 468, 471; report of, on: Illinois land, 471, memorial of B. Tardiveau, 4°5- Waire, [Wavie?], George, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 443. Walker, mentioned, 144. Walker, Dawson and Company, trade of, with T. Bentley, 41. Wallace, Caleb, member of investi- gating committee, 317, 318, 328. Walpole Company, participation of S. Wharton in, 3, n. 1. Ware, Hardy, resident of Illinois, 422. Warrant, for: arrest of R. Winston, 272, execution of slave, 97. Washington, George, memorial to, from J. Carroll, 599; winter quar- ters of, at Bond Brook, N. J., 75. Washington Observer, referred to, 3, n. 1. Watts, Charles, resident of Illinois, 422. Watts, James, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Watts, John, resident of Illinois, 422. Watts, Robert, biog. notice of, referred to, 422, n. 1; resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Wavie, [Waire ?f George, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 443. Webb, George, letter to, from J. Mont- gomery, 197. Weeya (Wea) Indians, see Ouiatanon Indians. West, Isaac C, resident of Illinois, 423; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444- Western Nations, treaty with, at Pitts- burg, 1, 1, n. 2. West Florida, trade of, with Illinois, 42. Wharton, Samuel, View of the Title to Indiana, by, referred to, 2, n. 2. Wheat, trade in, 426. White, letter referred to, from: P. Langlois, 439, B. Tardiveau, 453; memorial of B. Tardiveau referred to, 468, 471; report of, on: Illinois
Page 680
68o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS land, 471. memorial of B. Tardiveau, 465- White, John, prisoner at Miami, 503. White, Joseph, not in census, 421, n. 1. White, Layton (Laton), resident of Illinois. 421; signs: contract with B. Tardiveau, 444, petition to Court, at Kaskaskia, 295. White River, land sales on, 449. Whitehead, Robert, not in census, 421, n. 1. Williamson, memorial referred to, from: R. Flint, 489, B. Tardiveau, 494; report of, on: government of Illinois, 370, memorial of G. Morgan, 479, 490. Wingate, report of, on memorial of G. Morgan, 479. Wikoff (Wikough), William, creditor of D. Murray, 430; land grant to, 35°, 35 1; law-suit of, vs. D. Murray, 359; signs memorial to Congress, 368. Wilkins (Willkins), Lieutenant-Colonel John, biog. notice of, 18, n. 2; erects Court, 7, n. 2, 18, 18, n. 1, 59, n. 1; government of, 16, 54, 55; intrigues of, 3, n. 1; land-grants by, 384, n. 3. Wilkinson, George, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Will, registration of, 231. Willey, James, signs: as arbiter, 501, commission, 317, contract with B. Tardiveau, 445, memorial to Con- gress, 368; supports: J. Dodge, 368, n. 1, R. Winston, 317, n. 1. William and Mary College, J. Todd, surveyor for, 229. Williams, Captain John, biog. reference on, 122, n. 2; agent to Virginia com- missioners, 344, 344, n. 1; at Fort Nel- son, 346; bills in favor of, 216; carries letter to G. R. Clark, 346; declares inability to pay T. de Monbreun, 333. 334. 325, 326; departure of, 324,522,525, 526; in U. S. army, 60; lawsuit of, vs. H. Smith, 251; letter of, to: G. R. Clark, 122, 346, T. de Monbreun, 323, 325; letter to, from T. de Monbreun, 323, 324, 326; marriage of, 417, n. 33; power of, 333. 324. 325; promissory note of, 59, 60; signs commission, 317, me- morial to Congress, 368; summoned as witness, 279, 522, 523; supports: J. Dodge, 368, n. 1, R. Winston, 317, n. 1; testimony of, against R. Win- ston, 274, 279, 280; mentioned, 345. Willing, Captain James mander, 45; captur 50, n. 1. Wine, trade in, 33, 36,4 Winn (Win), Thomas, nois, 422; signs cc Tardiveau, 445. Winsor, Justin, West; by, referred to, xxvi 210, n. 1. Winston (Winstone), notice of, 1, n. 1; i 7, n. 50, n. 1, 311, n. accusations against: 1, 277, 278, 425; acc of dishonesty, 279; J. Montgomery, 336, agent for G. Morgan, captain, 47, sheriff, 8 ment by, of: T. de 328, P. Langlois, 30S xiere, 256, n. i, 257, of 272, 273,274, 275, to establish governi . fontaine, 294; asks detain commissioners at house of, 290;: 346; attitude of, tc Clark, 280, Court, M. de la Balme, 19 342, 345, Spanish, 3 273, 279, 280, 281,; of, 87, 88; casts vote causes tumult, 282, certificate of, concerr 227; commandant, 158; commissary f< commission of, 47, 8; 344, n. 1; Court of K to act against, 277, 28 of J. Todd, 150; des 347, 348. 425. n. 2; issued to, 97; depi Illinois, 274, 293, 32 of J. Todd, 150, 227 lishes Court, 311, n. 1 of, 149, 150, 160, 228 M'Carty's estate, 23 of, 317, 317, n. 1; « 274, 275, 425; instn de Monbreun, 321; G. R. Clark, 346, C kia, 218, 304, J. Dodj 250, La Jeunesse, 2. 257, 267, officer at officer at Louisville 195; letter to, fron
Page 681
INDEX 681 258, J. Lasource, 267, J.Montgomery, 150, G. Morgan, 1, J. Todd, 98, 105; mission of, to Virginia, 319, n. 1, 320, 328, 369, n. 1; notice posted by, 406, n. 1; offers of, to Spanish, 275, n. 1; opposition to, 344, 344, n. 1; orders election, 268; partner of P. Kennedy, 2, n. 1; pel- try fund: entrusted to, 149, taken from, 195; petition of wife of, 272, 273; petition to, from: Court at Kaskaskia, 268, N. Janis, 268, P. Langlois, 308, n. 1; placard of, on notariat, 260; power of, 259, 260, 261, 266; proclamation of, to Indians, 156; protest of, against arrest, 274; rents forge of G. Cerré, 103; requisi- tion of, for commission of J. La- buxiere, 257, 262, 265; reports dis- turbances to: J. Dodge, 151, officer, 50, J. Todd, 195, 196; ruin of, 348; signs: as witness, 60, 73, contract with R. M'Carty and P. Prevost, 244, peti- tion to Court at Kaskaskia, 290; strug- gle of, with Court at Kaskaskia, 257, 258, 259, 260, 261, 262, 263, 264; sug- gests appointment of huissier, 304; summoned to court, 43, 218, 267; sum- mons magistrates to take oaths, 305, 306; supplies furnished by, 150, 151, n. 1, 348; testimony vs. 277, 278, 278, n. 1, 279, 280, 281, 282, 293; translates certificate, 227; treason- able conduct of, 272, 273, 275, 275, n. 1, 278, 279, 280, 281, 282, 283; wife of, 1, n. 1, 272, 273. Wisconsin Historical Society, Collections of, referred to, 16, n. 1, 17, n. 1, 18, n. 2, 73, n. 1, 104, n. 5, 121, n. 1, 383, n. 1, 396, n. 2. Wood, Charles, resident of Illinois, 421. Wood River, land sales on, 469, 472, 480, 483. Worley, John, resident of Illinois, 423. Worley, Joseph, Sr., resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardi- veau, 444. Worley, Joseph, Jr., resident of Illinois, 423- Worley, Samuel, signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444. Worthington, Captain, raises troops for G. R. Clark, 148; mentioned, 76. Wyllys, John, letter to, from J. Ham- tramck, 504; situation in North- west described to, 506. Zeagler, Captain, mentioned, 573. Zeiberger, Reverend D., permitted to open letter, 105. Zipp, Peter, resident of Illinois, 422; signs contract with B. Tardiveau, 444.
Page 682
i
This page contains an image.
Page 683
UNIVERSITT OF MICHICâN UNIV. Ut* «H**^ mar h m ilipiillffllllllllill - ' r
Page 684
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN DATE DUE 0UM-4-8--1981
This page contains an image.
Page 685
MAR 11 \*S UMVERS1TY OF MICHIGAN 3 9015 01043 0877 Replaced with Commerciat Microform 1987 DO NOT REMOVE OR MUTILATE CARD f
Page 686
Blank page
This page contains an image.
End of Index. Continue to next section or 
End of text. Return to .

