Michigan historical collections., v.19 1892. | HathiTrust Digital Library

Use of this online version is subject to all U.S. copyright laws. Please do not save or redistribute this file.
For questions or comments, contact HathiTrust.org at 



Full Bibliographic Information
Title
Michigan historical collections., v.19 1892.
Author 
Michigan Historical Commission.
Published 
Lansing [etc.]Michigan Historical Commission,1877-1929.
Description 
40 v.ill., fronts., plates, ports., maps, facsims.23 1/2 - 24 cm.
Rights 

Permanent URL 

Table of Contents



Book Text
Title Page
Page Scan 1


B 1,160,566



Page Scan 2
Blank page
Page Scan 3
Blank page
Page Scan 4
Blank page
Page I


HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

COLLECTIONS AND RESEARCHES MADE BY THE Miichigan Pioneer an(ld Historical Society

Vol. XIX

LANsINO lOBERT SMITH & CO., STATE PRINTERS AND BINDERS 1892



Page II


-Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1892, by tho MICHIGAN PIONEER AND HISTORICAL SOCIETY, In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C.



Page III


PREFACE.

In presenting the nineteenth volume of Pioneer and Historical Collections the Committee of Historians would call attention to the fact that since publishing Vols. 15 and 16, which are wholly composed of copies of original documents from the Canadian Archives at Ottawa, they have published Vols. 17 and 18 containing the proceedings of the annual meetings of the Society, for the years 1890 and 1891, together with the papers read at those meetings and other historical matter pertaining to Michigan, collected during those years. This volume is again entirely devoted to copies from the Canadian Archives, relating to the Upper Country and Upper Posts and especially to Detroit, Michilimackinac and St. Joseph, and covers a period from 1721 to near the close of the Revolutionary war. The "Reports on American Colonies" reach back to 1721 and give the official account of the French and British contention in the Indian territory from that time, with the manner of treatment of the Indian tribes subject to their influence. The "Military Dispatches" and " Bouquet Papers" cover a period from 1758 to 1765, during which time England acquired much of the French possessions as the result of what is termed the " French and Indian War." The "Haldimand Papers" is a continuation of the same from Vol. 11, and covers the years 1773 to 1781 inclusive, or nearly to the close of the Revolutionary war. The remainder of these papers will follow in Vol. 20, coming down to the close of -the war and the establishment of the government of the United States.



Page IV


IV These papers are especially interesting in showing the methods resorted to by the British officers- to secure the good will and aid of the Indians, and more especially after the alliance had been made between the Americans, or rebels as they are invariably termed, and the French, the old friends of those people. The committee feel confident that the readers of these reports and letters will find themselves greatly interested in the study of the history of that period as viewed from the British standpoint. MICHAEL SHOEMAKER, Chairman, Jackson. JOHN H. FORSTER, Williamston. HENRY H. HOLT, Muskegon. FREDERIOK CARLISLE, Detroit. Committee of Historians. LANSING, MICH., Oct. 12, 1892.



End of Title Page. Continue to next section or 
Table of Contents
Page V


CONTENTS. I Page. PREFACE- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -n CONTENTS ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- v REPORTS ON AmERiCANq COLONIES, 1721-1762 --------------------- s------ ---------------------- 1I Pertaining to the year 1721---------------------------------------------------------------- 1 14 6161761 --------------------------------------------------------------- 14 i at1762 ------------------------- -------------------------------------- 14 MILITABY DISPATCHES ----------------------------------------------------------------------- 28 Pertaining to the year 1760--------------------------------------------------------------- 23 at A""9111761 -------------------------------------------------------------- w 24 it 4 " 1763--------------------------------------------------------------- 24 46 t""" 111764 ----------------------ft---------------------------------------- 25 Sketch of Col. Henry Bouquet------------------------ T----------------------------------------- 27 BOUQUET PAPERS ------------------------- -------------------------------------- ------------- 27 Pertaining to thý year 1759--------------------------------------------------------------- 27 it it11 161760 ------------------------------------------------------------ 2 " "1761 --------------------------------------------- m------- I---------- 50 it t "1-1762 --------------------------------------------------------------- 127 at itIt 111763--------------------------------- ------------------------------ 176 1764 --------------------------- w----------------------------------- 247 it41 11765--------------------------------------------------------------- 294 Sketch of Gen. Frederick Haldipnand --------------------------------------------------------- Z96 HALDIMAN PAPERS------------------------------------------------------------------------- 296 Pertaining to the year 1778 -------------------------------------------------------------- 296 1774------------------------ ------------ m-------------------------- 315 17 ------------------ --------------------------------------- 317 ItI 11776------------------------------------- ------------------- m------ 318 177--------------------------------2 1117778---------------------------------------- w---------------------- 337 1779. ---------------- m--------------------------------------------- 3697 it 1 178------------------------------------- --w---------------------- 4392 " " "1781------------------------------- w-------- w----------------------ft 591



Page VI
Blank page
Page 1


M I CHIGA1N PIONEER AND HISTORICAL SOCIETY HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS COPIES OF PAPERS ON FILE IN THE DOMKINION ARCHIVES AT OTTAWA CANADA, PERTAINING, TO MICHIGAN, AS FOUND IN THE REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES, MILITARY DISPATCHES, BOUQUET PAPERS, AND HALDIMAND PAPERS. NOTE.-Care has been taken in publishing the following papers to follow the original copies as closely as possible, including orthography, punctuation, capitalization, etc. The references in brackets at the close of each paper are the filings in the Dominion Archives at Ottawa. CANADIAN ARCHIVES. REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES, 17211-1762. COPY OF A REPRESENTATION OF THE LORDS' COMMISSIONERS FOR TRADE AND PLANTATIONS TO THE KING, UPON THE STATE OF HIS IMAJESTY'S COLONIES AND PLANTATIONS ON THE CONTINENT OF NORTH AMERICA, DATED SEPTEMR THE Sim 1721-- To the King's Most Excellent Majesty. May it please your Majesty. In obed1ience to your Majesty's commands we have prepared the following state of your Majesty's plantations on the Continent of America; wherein we have distinguished their respective situations,



Page 2


2

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

governments, strength and trade, and have observed of what importance their commerce is to Great Britain; whereunto having added an account of the french settlements, and of the encroachments they have made on your Majesty's Colonies in those parts; we have humbly proposed such methods, as may best prevent the increase of an evil, which, if not timely prevented, may prove destructive to your Majesty's interest, and have likewise offered such considerations as, in our opinion may contribute to the improving and enlarging your Majesty's dominions in America. Your Majesty's plantations on the continent of America, beginning from the north, or Nova Scotia, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and Carolina. And altho Newfoundland and Hudson's Bay are both of them parts of your Majesty's territories in North America; yet neither of them being a colony under civil government or lying contiguous to your Majesty's other plantations on the continent, we have made no mention of them in this representation. [p. 1.] MISSISSIPPI The french nation having always been desirous to extend their dominions in America, have lost no opportunity of encroaching upon their neighbours there. And although your Majesty and your Royal Ancestors have an uncontestable right, as well by discovery as possession, to the several British Colonies in America; yet the french Kings have at sundry times made grants thereof to their subjects, such were the letters patents of Louis the 13th in favour of the french West India Company, bearing date the 29th of April 1627; and those of Louis the 14th to Monsr. Croisat, some time since surrendered to the United India Company of France, upon which they build their title to the Mississippi Many other instances of the like nature might be given, were they necessary to the present purpose, but these two, which comprehended almost all your Majesty's Dominions in America, may be sufficient to show the unlimited inclination the french have to encroach upon your Majesty's Territories in those parts. However as the French are convinced, that a charter without possession, can never be allowed by the law of nations to change the property of the soil; they have employed another artifice; and without



Page 3


MISSISSIPPI.

3

embarrassing themselves about former discoveries made by the subjects of other princes, have built small forts at the heads of lakes and rivers along that vast tract of land from the entry of the River St. Lawrence to the embouchure of the Mississippi into the Bay of Mexico; not so much with intention probably to bound their own territories,.as to receive what they have already got, till a more favorable juncture shall give them occasion to make further intrusions upon their neighbors. And if the late war in Europe, when the allies made so successful efforts against the exorbitant power of France, had not found Louis the 14th employment at home, it is very likely the french would have been much more formidable than they are now in America, notwithstanding the treaty of neutrality for those parts made at London in. 1686, ought to have secured to Great Britain the several colonies whereof your Majesty's royal predecessors stood possessed at the time of making the said treaty, but the little regard the french have to that treaty, will evidently appear by the evasions and frivolous pretences set on foot by their ministers during the debates in the year 1687 at London, when the Lords Sunderland, Middleton and Godolphin were appointed by King James to confer with the then french ambassadors, Monsr. de Baullon and the Sieur Dusson de Bourepeaux, concerning the boundaries of the Hudson's Bay Company; and although that conference terminated in a confirmation of the aforesaid treaty of neutrality together with a res6lution of settling the boundaries between the English and french colonies in America, by proper commissaries, which resolution has since been enforced by the 10th article of ýie treaty of Utrecht; yet the french could never be induced to enter sincerely upon so necessary a work, notwithstanding commissaries were lately appointed for that purpose, and met with others deputed by the french court at Paris. It is therefore very apparent from these transactions, that there remains no way to settle our boundaries, but by making ourselves considerable at the two heads of your Majesty's colonies, north and south, and by building of forts, as the french have done, in proper places, on the inland frontiers. The french territories in America extend from the mouth of the river of St. Lawrence to the embouchure of the Mississippi, forming one continued line from north to south, on the back of your Majesty's plantation; and although these garrisons, in many parts, are hitherto very inconsiderable, yet as they have, by the means of their missionaries, debauched several of the Indian nations to their interest, your Majesty's subjects along the continent have the utmost danger to



Page 4


4

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

apprehend from this new settlement unless timely care be taken to prevent its increase But this will be the proper subject of another part of this report; and therefore we shall at present proceed to give your Majesty an account of the forts the french have built,, and the settlements they have made to secure their communication; of the several routs they have practiced from Quebec to the Mississippi; of the Indian nations in those parts, whom they have gained over to their interest; and of those who still remain friends to your Majesty's subjects. And as the most perfect account we have of these particulars, was transmitted to us some time since by Mr. Keith, the present governor of Pennsylvania, we hold ourselves obliged upon this occasion to acknowledge how much we are indebted to his exactness and application therein. It is evident from Father Hennissen and La Salle's travels, that the communication between Canada and Mississippi is a very late discovery; and perhaps such a one, as no nation less industrious than the French, would have attempted; but it must be allowed that they have a great advantage over us in this particular, to which even the nature of their religion and government do greatly contribute; for their missionaries, in blind obedience to their superiors, spend whole years in exploring new countries, and the encouragement the late french King gave to the discoverers and planters of new tracts of land, doth far exceed any advantage your Majesty's Royal Predecessors have hitherto given to their subjects in America; and as your Majesty's European dominions hAve long been burthen'd with the expense of two successive wars, the Parliament of Great Britain have hitherto only been able to assist the plantations with a very sparing hand; altho' considering the great revenue they bring your Majesty in your customs, and the vast importance they are of to the trade and navigation of these kingdoms, it is now to be hoped they may be thought worthy of greater attention. And4 indeed had this matter been sooner considered, the french dominions had never been extended from north to south through the whole continent of America. For your Majesty's subjects who had much greater convenience of discovering and making treaties with the Indian nations, on the lakes which lie so contiguous to the back of the British settlements, might effectually have prevented this communication, which may prove highly inconvenient to the trade and welfare of your Majesty's colonies. However it is not even yet too late to think of applying a remedy,



Page 5


MISSISSIPPI.

5

nor will it be at all impossible to interrupt a rout, which your Majesty may perceive by the following detail; hath many natural obstructions. and could never have been rendered practicable without the greatest industry. From Mount Real, on the River St. Lawrence, the french generally sail in canoes about three leagues to the falls of Saint Louis; where they are obliged to land, and travel about half a league, before they embark again, in order to row up the stream, about 60 leagues further, to fort frontenac, situate on the north side of the river, at the entrance of the Lake Ontario, where they have a garrison, consisting of one or two companies; from thence they proceed on the said Lake reported about 80 leagues in length, to the great fall of Niagara which lies between the Lakes Ontario and Erie, where they are obliged to travel -overland again about three leagues, before they enter the Lake Erie, which is about 130 leagues in length. From this lake to the Mississippi they have three different routs. The shortest by water is up the river Miamis, or Ouamis, on the south ivest of Lake Erie, on which river they sail about 150 leagues without interruption, when they find themselves stoped by another landing, of about three leagues, which they call a carrying place, because they are generally obliged to carry their canoes over land, in those places to the next river; and that where they next embark is a very shallow one, called La Riviere de portage; hence they row about 40 leagues to the river Ouabache, and from thence about 120 leagues to the river Ohio, into which the Ouabache falls, as the river Ohio does about 80 leagues lower into the Mississippi, which continues its course about 350 leagues directly to the Bay of Mexico. There are likewise two other passages, much longer than this, which one particularly pricked down in Hennissen's map, and may be described in the following manner: From the north east of the Lake Erie to a fort on the lake St. Clair, called fort Chartrim, is about eight leagues sail; here the french have a settlement, and often 400 -traders meet there, along this Lake they proceed about seven leagues further, and thence to the great Lake Huron about ten leagues; hence they proceed to the straits of Michilimackinack 120 leagues. Here is a garrison of about 30 french, and a vast concourse of traders, sometimes not less than 1,000, besides Indians, being a common place of rendezvous. At and near this place the Outawas an Indian nation are settled. From the Lake Huron they pass by the straight Michillimackinac four leagues, being two in breadth, and of a great depth, to the Lake



Page 6


6

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

Illinois; thence 150 leagues on the lake to fort Miamis, situated on the mouth of the river Chigagoe; from hence came those Indians of the same name, viz.: Miamis, who are settled on the forementioned river that runs into Erie. Up the river Chigagoe they sail but three leagues to a portage of one-fourth of a league; then enter a small lake of about a mile, and have another very small portage, and again another of two miles to the river Illinois; thence down the stream 130 leagues to Mississippi. The next rout is from Michillimackinack on the lake Illinois to the Lake de Jurans 90 leagues, thence to the river Jurans 80 leagues; thence up the same to a portage of about four miles before they come to the river Oursconsing, thence 40 leagues to Mississippi. These distances are as the traders reckon them, but they appear generally to be much overdone, which may be owing to those people's coasting along the shores of the lakes, and taking in all the windings of the rivers. They have another much shorter passage from Mount Real to Lake Huron, by the french river on the north of Saint Lawrence, which communicates with the two latter routs; but it abounds with falls, and therefore it is not so much used. They have also by this river a. much shorter passage to the upper Lake, or Lake Superior. The french have at all times used their utmost endeavours to bring over the Indians to their interests, and the missionaries have been so successful in this point that they have even reduced some part of the Irroquois, commonly called by the name of the five nations, from their ancient friendship and dependence on your Majesty's colony of New York; and altho provision was made by the 15th article of the treaty of Utrecht to prevent the like inconveniencies for the future, yet experience hath shewn that such treaties made with the french, as cannot be afterwards executed without their assistance, are likely to prove ineffectual. We would therefore follow their example in this particular and lose no time, at least in securing such as are not already in league with them. Of this sort are the Miamis, settled upon the river of the same name, which runs into the Lake Erie, and are about 2,000 in number. The gaining of this nation to the British interest would be a very great importance; and, as we are informed, might be done by settling a trade with them, and building a small fort upon the Lake Erie, where the french, in 1718, had no settlement; what they have now is not as yet come to our knowledge, though in all probability they have, or will soon begin to build one there. This wilt appear to be the more necessary, when we shall consider, how many Indian nations, on



Page 7


MISSISSIPPI.

7

the back of the British settlements, the french have already gained to their interest. The Illinois are about 3,000 men, on or near the river of that name. The Ottoways, or Michillimackinacks were formerly 3,000 but now scarce 500 The Nokes 100 The Follesavoires 200 The Sakes 200 The Puans 600 All these joined the french against the five nations in the late war, and all of them, except the Miamis, are seated about or near to the Lake Illinois, which is now commonly called by them Michigan, and on the rivers that run into it, and on the lake Puans, and the river Illinois. On the Mississippi, and the branches of it, there are many great nations, especially to the west,' as the Missouris, Ozages, Acansias (different from those of Acansa on the east) with many more, not less, as it is affirmed than 60,000 men, with all whom it is said the french have peace, or some alliance. On the other hand all the English to. the northward of Carolina, have not 1,500 fighting men in their interest to be depended on, except the five nations;-in New England and Connecticut they have very few;-in New York only the river Indians, besides the five nations;-in Jersey and Pennsylvania, their own or home nations, called Delawares, are exceedingly decreased, and being in subjection to the five nations, take their rules from them;-in Maryland and Virginia, there are very few, except those to the south-west, whom Colonel Spotswood with great industry has lately gained by treaties and hostages. Those of Carolina, and the nations lately in fridndship with them, have been very numerous but are not so at present; the french having made great encroachments in those parts and gained many of the Indians there over to their interest. Thus, by one view of the map of North America, your Majesty will see the danger your subjects are in, surrounded by the french,ý who have robbed them of great part of the trade they formerly drove with the Indians, have in great measure cut off their prospect of further improvements that way, and, in case of a rupture, may greatly incommode, if not absolutely destroy them by their Indian allies and although the British plantations are naturally fortified, by a chain of mountains, that run from the back of South Carolina, as far as new



Page 8


8

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

York, passable but in few places; yet should we not possess those passes, in time, this would rather prove destructive than beneficial to us. [p 78.] CONSIDERATIONS FOR SECURING, IMPROVING AND ENLARGING YOUR MAJESTY'S DOMINIONS IN AMERICA. Having laid before your Majesty the state of your plantations on the continent, having observed the importance their trade is of to these kingdoms, and shewn how much they lie exposed to the incursions of their European neighbours, and of the Indians in their interest, what further remains is, that we should humbly offer to your Majesty's consideration such methods as have occurred to us, for securing, improving and enlarging so valuable a possession, as that of your Majesty's dominions in America; which we conceive might most effectually be done. 1st By taking the necessary precautions to prevent the encroachments of the french, or of any other European nation; 2ndly By cultivating a good understanding with the native Indians; And lastly by putting the government of the plantations upon a better foot. In order therefore to secure your Majesty's colonies from the encroachments of their European neighbours in America where of we receive daily complaints from the several governors on the continent, it will be highly necessary to begin, by fortifying the two extremities to the north and south. This will appear the more necessary, when it shall be considered how much the french have strengthened their settlements in the neighborhood of Nova Scotia and Carolina, whilst your Majesty's servants, either through neglect or misfortune, are much weaker in these two Provinces than any other part of America. It has been already observed, that there are not above two British families in all Nova Scotia, besides the garrison of Annapolis, consisting of at present, only six companies of 34 men each; but there are still'near 3000 french inhabitants remaining in this province, who contrary to the treaty of Utrecht, refuse to take the oaths of Allegiance to your Majesty, and in combination with their countrymen at Cape Breton, are daily instigating the native Indians not only to commit insults upon your Majesty's subjects, fishing upon the coast of Nova Scotia, but even to set up a title to the whole province, in opposition to your Majesty's Right.



Page 9


IMPROVING AND ENLARGING DOMINIONS IN AMERICA.

9

The french likewise pretend, that only the peninsula of Acadia (hardly one third part of Nova Scotia) was yielded to the crown of Great Britain by the treaty of Utrecht; and notwithstanding this pretence is sufficiently refuted in the former part of this report, by comparing the charter to Sir William Alexander, the first proprietor of Nova Scotia, with the article of session in the treaty of Utrecht; yet from these unreasonable cavils, in time of profound peace and friendship between the two nations, may be collected, how desirous the the french are to make themselves masters of this province, which they may easily overrun on the first rupture, the same being in a manner already surrounded by their settlements at Cape Breton, Long Island and Quebec. In our humble opinion, therefore, no time should be lost in putting of this province into a better posture of defence; and we humbly beg leave to repeat our proposal for sending of four regiments of foot to Nova Scotia. Without some assistance of this nature, it will be in vain to think of settling Nova Scotia; for planters will never fix, where they can have no security for their persons or effects; but whenever this main point shall be sufficiently provided for, it is to be hoped so fertile a country will not want inhabitants. All reasonable encouragement however should be given to adventurers to settle there; and in some former reports to your Majesty, we have humbly offered it as our opinion, that it would be greatly for your service, that the present inhabitants of New Foundland should be engaged to quit that place, where they drive a trade prejudicial to the fishery of Great Britain, and settle in Nova Scotia, where they may be useful to this #Kingdom. We shall not trouble your Majesty with the repetition of the particulars mentioned in former parts of this representation, concerning the fortifications proposed to be erected on the coast of Nova Scotia; but shall beg leave in general to observe, that bays and harbours should be secured and some forts built in proper places for the protection of your Majesty's subjects fishing upon this coast. In that part of this report relating to the french settlements, we have taken notice, that nature has furnished the British colonies with a barrier, which may easily be defended, having cast up a long ridge of mountains between your Majesty's plantations and the french settlements, extending from South Carolina to New York, but there are doubtless several passes over these mountains, which ought to be secured as soon as they shall be discovered; and we had the honour not long ago to recommend to your Majesty's approbation a proposal 2



Page 10


10

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

for fortifying the passes on the back of Virginia. In our opinion all possible encouragement should be given to discoveries and undertakings of this nature; for if all the passes over this ridge of mountains are not secured, your Majesty's subjects will be liable to the insults of the french, and of the Indians under their influence, who are very numerous. But although these mountains may serve at present for a very good frontier, we should not propose them for the boundary your Majesty's empire in America. On the contrary it were to be wished, that the British settlements might be extended beyond them, and some small forts erected on the great lakes, in proper places, by permission of the Indian proprietors; and we would particularly recommend the building of a fort on the Lake Erie, as hath been proposed by Colonel Spotswood, your Majesty's Lieut. Govr of Virginia, whereby the french communication, from Quebec -to the river Mississippi, might be interrupted, a new trade opened with some of the Indian nations and more of the natives engaged in your Majesty's interest. There will be the same reason for erecting another fort at the falls of Niagara, near the Lake Ontario, Mr. Burnet your Majesty's Governor of New York, hath already form'd a scheme for this purpose, which we hope he may be able to execute, by the consent and assistance of the Senecas, one of the five Indian nations dependant on your Majesty, to whom the soil belongs. But because these Lakes lie at a very great distance from the settlements already made by your Majesty's subjects, to secure intermediate stages, a third fort might be built at the head of Potomack River, which divides Virginia from Maryland, and a fourth at the head of the Susquehana River, which runs through Pennsylvania, into the bay of Chesapeake. Carolina likewise being the southern frontier of your Majesty's plantations, and lying much exposed to the incursions, both of the french and spaniards, as well as to the insults of the Indians, demands your Majesty's immediate assistance and protection. It wohld be for your Majesty's service, that the heads and embouchures of all rivers running through this province should be secured, and, in our humble opinion, a less force than four regiments of foot will not be sufficient for the protection of your Majesty's subjects there; especially considering how many places will require garrisons: For, besides those already mentioned under the head of Carolina it will be highly necessary that three others should be erected on the Savanah, Catahoche, and Hagaloge Rivers; for at Palachakolas, on the Savanah



Page 11


IN RELATION TO THE INDIANS.

11

River, the french had formerly a settlement in the time of Charles the ninth, and intend to settle there again if not prevented. A fort on Catahooche River would secure a communication with the bay of Apalache, and another on Hagaloge River might not only interrupt the communication of the french settlements; but likewise give your Majesty's subjects an opportunity of gaining the Cherokees, a warlike nation, and the only Indians of consequence in those parts, that have not already made peace with the french. We are very sensible that this proposal will be attended with expense; but we hope it may be fully justified by the necessity thereof for the preservation of the British colonies in America. [p 90] IN RELATION TO THE INDIANS. The second particular, wherein your Majesty's interest is highly concerned, with respect to the trade and the security of the British plantations, is that of cultivating a good understanding with the native Indians; as well those inhabiting amongst your Majesty's subjects as those that border on your Majesty's dominions in America; and herein at all times hath consisted the main support of our french neighbours, who are so truly sensible, of what consequence it is to any European nation, settling in America, to gain the natives to their interest, that they have spared no pains, no cost, no artifice to attain this desirable end; wherein it must be allowed, that they have succeeded to the great prejudice of your Majesty's subjects in those parts, having debauched, as hath already been observed, some part of the five nations bordering upon New York from their ancient league and dependance on the crown of Great Britain. For this purpose their missionaries are constantly employed, frequent presents are made to the Sachems or Kings of the several nations, and encouragement given for inter marriage between the french and natives; whereby their new empire may' in time be peopled, without draining france of its inhabitants. It was for this reason, that in the draught of Instructions for the governor of Novia Scotia, we took the liberty of proposing to your Majesty, that proper encouragement should be given to such of your Majesty's subjects as should intermarry with the natives Indians; and we conceive it might be for your Majesty's service, that the said Instructions should be extended to all the other British Colonies. Your Majesty and your Royal Predecessors have frequently made



Page 12


12 '

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

presents to the Indian chiefs more particularly to those of the five nations; but as the same have always litherto been a charge upon civil-list which is generally overburthened, so those presents have not been very regularly or seasonably sent to America; and consequently many opportunities of improving the British interest in those parts, must have been lost for want of them, for which reason it is to be hoped, that more exactness will be had in this particular for the future. It is likewise much to be lamented that our zeal for propogating of the Christian faith in parts beyond the seas, hath not hitherto much enlarged the pall of the British Church amongst those poor inlfidels, or in any sort contributed to promote the interest of the state in America; but as it is not so immediately our province to propose anything particular upon this head, we can only wish, that the same may be hereafter put upon better foot. There is however one other method left for gaining the good will of these Indians, which providence hath put into our hands, and wherein the french could not possibly rival us, if we made a right use of our advantage; and that is the furnishing of them, at honest and reasonable prices, with the several European commodities they may have occasion for; but even this particular, from the unreasonable avarice of our Indian traders, and the want of proper regulations, has turned to our detriment, and instead of gaining us friends, has probably created us many enemies. But as we are entirely of opinion, that the Indian trade, if fairly carried on, would greatly contribute to the increase of your Majesty's power and interest in America, we should humbly propose, that the same may be put under as good regulations, as the nature of the thing will admit; for on the successful progress of this trade the enlargement of your Majesty's dominions in those parts doth almost entirely depend; inasmuch as all the settlements, that may at any time hereafter be made beyond the mountains, or on the lakes, must necessarily build their hopes of support much more upon the advantage to be made by the Indian trade, than upon any profits to arise from planting at so great a distance from the sea. This trade then ought by all possible means to be encouraged; it ought to be equally free, in all parts, all your Majesty's subjects in America, and all monopolies thereof discouraged, that no one colony, or sett of people whatsoever may engross the same, to the prejudice of their neighbours. All your Majesty's Governors, in their respective governments, should use their utmost endeavours to prevent the traders from imposing on



Page 13


-7.



IN RELATION TO THE INDIANS. 13 the Indians; upon complaint of any injustice done them, cause satisfaction to be made; and upon all occasions, shew the utmost resentment against the offenders. And that your Majesty's subjects may be the more easily induced to extend this trade as far westward, upon the lakes and rivers behind the mountains, as the situation and ability of the respective colonies will permit; forts should be built, and garrisons settled in proper places to protect them. It would likewise be for your Majesty's service, that the several governors of your Majesty's plantations should endeavour to make treaties and" alliances of friendship with as many Indian nations as they can; in which treaties all your Majesty's subjects should be expressly included; all the Indian nations, in amity with your Majesty's subjects, should, if possible be reconciled to each other; and all traders should be instructed to use their endeavours to convince the said Indians that the English have but one King and one interest. And if any Indian nation in league or friendship with any of your Majesty's colonies should make war, plunder, or any way molest any other Indian nation, in friendship with the same colony, your Majesty's governor should use all possible endeavours to oblige the said Indians to make satisfaction for their breach of faith to the party aggrieved, and that all the Governors of your Majesty's plantations may be informed of the state of every other government, with respect to the Indians, it will be necessary that every Governor upon his making any treaty with any Indian nation should immediately communicate the same to all other your Majesty's Governors upon the continent. We are likewise of opinion that it might be convenient to imitate the french, in sending home some chiefs of the most desirable clans or nations, to whom they take care to show the glory and splendor of the french nation in Europe, that the said Indians may upon their return, instill the greater respect for them among their countrymen. All which particulars would in our humble opinion, much conduce to the securing the natives in your Majesty's interest and to the enlargement of your frontiers in America. [p 96.] (signatures only) J. CHETWYND P. DOCMINQUE M. BLADON Whitehale E. ASHE Sep. 8., 1721 [p 112.]





Page 14


14

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

No 5 EXTRACT OF A LETTER TO GOVERNOR MURRAY. GIVING SOME ACCOUNT OF THE INDIAN TRADE IN THE UPPER COUNTRY. ALBANY 10TH AUGUST SIR 1761 The grand article in this government is the Indian trade, the consumption of goods by the Domestique Indians I could get no account of, to be depended on; the following of the distant Indians, I received from a good hand. The value of the merchandizes sold at the following Posts

Le Detroit, the Illinois commerce exclusive Les Miamis Les Wutanous Michilimackinac the Illinois exclusive La Baye et les Sioux Le Nepigon La Pointe de Chagonamigon St. Joseph The Trade at Niagara was in the Kings hands, and not so well

LIVRES 350,000 80,o00 60,000 250,000 100,000 30,000. 80,000 60,000

known, but supposed 440,000 Livres 1,500,000 The above is the value of goods at Montreal, when sold at 30 p ct advance for Freight and charges. I find the French computed the value of all kinds of Skins imported from Canada to amount to ~135,000 Sterling pr. annum. At present the Indian Trade from Montreal is only up the Ottaway River; but if the country should remain to Great Britain, it must again be the center of their Trade from the easier access.

(a true copy) H. T. CRAMAHE Secy.

[p 189.]

COPY OF A LETTER FROM THE HONBLE. THOMAS GAGE ESQ. TO SR. JEFFERY AMHERST, CONTAINING A REPORT OF THE STATE OF MONTREAL. MONTREAL March 20th, 1762 SIR I have already acknowledged the receipt of a copy of the Earl of Egremont's Letter to you of the 12th December, and I take this



Page 15


COPY OF LETTER FROM THOS. GAGE.

15

opportunity to return you my answers thereto, assuring you, that I have lost no time, in collecting the best Informations of every thing contained in that letter, that I could possibly procure. I feel the highest satisfaction that I am able to inform you that, during my command in this government, I have made it my constant care and attention, that the Canadians should be treated agreable to His Majesty's kind and humane Intentions; no Invasion on their Properties, or Insult on their Persons have gone unpunished; all Reproaches on their Subjection by the Fate of Arms, Revilings on their Customs or Country, and all Reflections on their Religion have been discountenanced and forbid. No distinction has been made betwixt the Briton and Canadian, but equally regarded as Subjects of the same Prince; the Soldiers have peaceably with the Inhabitants, and they reciprocally acquire an affection for each other. I have, notwithstanding, made known His Majesty's Pleasure on these Particulars, to the several commanders of corps, that every Individual may be acquainted therewith, which will no doubt, add the greatest weight to the orders and Directions which have been already given; and, you may be assured that Troops who have ever shewn the most ardent Desires to advance the Interest of their Sovereign, and paid the most exact obedience to His Commands, will vie with each other in brotherly Love and affection to the Canadians, over whom His Majesty has extended His Royal Favor and Protection. The Indians have been treated on the same principles of Humanity, they have had immediate Justice for all their wrongs, and no Tricks of Artifices have hitherto been attempted to defraud them in their Trade. I send herewith a Return (No 1) of the present state of the Troops and Artillery in this Government, as to the Fortifications, except Fort William Augustus, which may at present be in a good state of defence, the rest having been only calculated to repel sudden Invasions of Indians, are of course of small consideration. The city of Montreal is surrounded by a high wall, ramparted and flanked; The Parapet about three feet thick a natural Defence from the River St Lawrence, on one side, on the other a ditch mostly faced. Upon a Height within the city, is a small square work of wood, compleated since the capitulation, provided with a few pieces of artillery, and capable of containing seventy or eighty men. The Fort of Chamblie is an ancient stone castle, flanked with Towers, in which are port Holes, for small pieces of Ordnance, no Ditch or Outwork. You will also receive herewith a general Return (No 2) of the state of this government for the year 1761, comprehending the number of



Page 16


16

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

its Inhabitants, cattle, etc., the state of Population, quantity of acres cultivated, and quantity of grain sown, for the particulars of all which, I refer you to the Return. The soil produces all sorts of Summer grain in some parts of the Government, the wheat is sown in Autumn. Every kind of Pulse and other vegetables, to which I may add some Fruits vizt Apples, Pears, Plumbs, Melons &c. Cyder is made here, but as yet in small quantities. In general every Fruit Tree hardy enough to withstand the severity of the Winter will produce in the Summer, which affords enough of heat to bring most kinds to maturity. The profits which the French King drew from the Government of Montreal, unconnected with the other two governments of Trois Rivieres and Quebec proceeded from the sale of certain trading Posts in the Indian country. From. the money paid for Permits to trade at others which were called free Posts. From the King's own Trade, at those called the King's Posts, and from the Droit de Quint and Droit d'E.xchiange. In Return (No. 3) you will find there several Posts particularly ascertained, with the annual Profits, which might have accrued from the two first. It is impossible to ascertain what were the Profits and Losses upon the French King's own Trade; no doubt that Trade well managed would have produced considerable gains; but from the number of Commissaries and Factors employed, who have made very large Fortunes for themselves; and the immense profusion of Presents made to the Idians, I must conclude His Majesty gained very little from His commerce. The Lands have all been granted on Feudal Tenures; from thence the King's Droll t de Quint and Droit d'Exchange. The first is a fifth (_f all monies that shall be received on the sale of Seigniories or Lordships. The latter a fifth of the value of all Lordships exchanged; anid a twelfth of the value of all copy hold estates, that shall be Sxchanged. The right of exchange however did not belong to the French King, either in the city or Island of Montreal; it having been granted to the Priests of the Seminary of St. Sulpice who are temporal Lords of that Island, and enjoy the Privilege of the Exchange, as well in the city as the rest of the Island. The French King generally remitted a third of His Dues on those Sales and Exchanges, whose Revenues from hence might amount communibus annis to about three thousand Livres. I have supported His Majesty's Right to these Fines of Alienation, remitting the third according to old custom. This year by an accident they have amounted to nine thousand Livres.



Page 17


MONOPOLIES ABOLISHED-DUTIES ON PELTRYS.

17

Immediately after we became masters of this country, all monopolies were abolished, and all Incumbrances upon Trade were removed. The Traders chose their Posts without the obligation of purchasing them; and I can by no means think the French management in giving exclusive grants of Trade at particular Posts, for the sake of the sale thereof, or the sale of Permits to trade at the Free Posts worthy of our imitation. The Indians of course paid dearer for their goods and the Trade in general must have been injured by monopolies. The Traders were alone at the Posts they had purchased, when no person in authority had the Inspection of their conduct, and committed many abuses, for which the Indians could get no redress, and it has happened that the Indians have murdered the Traders, and plundered their effects, by which the French have been drawn into wars at a very great Distance and at a great expense. The French also found a very great Inconvenience in this kind of Traffick, from the loss of men to the colony; nothing was more common, than for the Servants whom the Merchants hired to work their Boats, and assist in their Trade, through a long habit of Indian manners and customs, at length to adopt their way of life, to intermarry with them and turn Savages. Several Edicts have been published to prevent this, but notwithstanding there are now some hundreds amongst the distant Indians, who, I do not suppose will ever return to their country. Though the Trading Posts were by this means multiplied, and from thence appears to have increased the Trade; in reality, unless in a few instances, fheir monopolies brought no addition of commerce into Canada, as they for the most part traded with Indians, who would otherwise have carried their furs to the great marts of Michilimackinac and Detroit, so that in effect they were only Forestallers of the market. Besides the inconveniences which I have mentioned to have attended the sale of Posts and Permits; I conceive this matter to be so liable to abuse, through Receivers, Jobbs and Perquisetes, that it would bring but little into His Majesty's coffers; and that the surest and easiest way to increase His Majesty's Revenue from the Peltry will be the laying such Duties only on its Importation, as shall be thought advisable. To remedy the inconveniences and abuses which both the English and French have suffered, through the management of the Indian Trade; I know no better method than to assign a certain number of Posts in the Indian Country to which only the Traders should be allowed to Traffick, and to abolish all the little Posts. And I am of opinion the five Posts hereafter mentioned will enable His Majesty's Subjects to trade with almost every nation of Indians, that has yet 3



Page 18


18

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

been discovered, and that have been accustomed to trade with the French vizt Kaministiquia on Lake Huron, Michilimakinac, Baye des Puants in Lake Michigan, the Detroit and Houilliatanon on the Ouabache, a small detachment of Troops with proper officers, should be in each of those Posts and the officers authorized either solely by themselves or assisted by such other Persons as may be found in the Posts, to exercise a Judicial power. The vast distance some of the above Posts are from the inhabited Country, would alone make this circumstance highly necessary, and the advantages that would arise from it are very apparent. The Insolence of the Indians will be checked by the presence of the Troops; the Tricks and Artifices of the Traders to defraud the Indians will meet with instant punishment which cannot fail to make the Indians conceive the highest opinion of our Integrity, and His Majesty's good Inclination towards them; and by these means all disputes and Quarrels with the Savages will be prevented. I can devise no better plan for carrying on the Trade in the distant Countries, than the above, or by which any Regulations concerning the Trade that shall be made, can ever be observed and supported. Paper (No 4) contains the particular Duties upon the exports of the Pellatry, also a computation of all the Revenues the French King enjoyed, communibus annis, from the whole Province of Canada, comprehending at an average, Exports and Imports, sale of Posts, and all Emoluments whatever, which were received in Canada on the King's account. I refer you likewise to the same Paper for the annual Expense of Canada, to the French, in time of Peace. You will observe amongst the exports, that the Beaver which was the exclusive trade of the India Company paid no Duty, nor am I able to send you any good accounts whether the French King drew any Profits from the Beaver of other Pelletry, on its arrival in the Posts of France, or what advantages the crown of France reaped from the exclusive Trade of Beaver granted to the India company. There are no PersQns here who can give me any clear Information in those Particulars. The only immediate Importance and advantage the French King derived from Canada, was the preventing the extension of the British Colonies. The consumption of the commodities and manufactures of France, and the Trade of the Pelletry. She had no doubt views of future advantages, that this country might in time supply her with Hemp, Cordage, Iron, Masts and generally all kinds of naval stores. The people in general seem well enough disposed towards their new masters. The only causes of dislike which I can discover, proceed



Page 19


BOUNDARY BETWEEN CANADA AND LOUISIANA.

19

from the fear of losing their Paper money, and the difference of Religion. I understand Canada to be on the same footing in respect of this money, as all the French Colonies, and if France pays any of them, I cannot see how she can avoid paying the Bills of Exchange drawn from Canada, in the same proportion as she pays the rest. It is not the Canadians only that would be sufferers by an exception, as Canadian Bills to a very large amount are in the possession of French merchants, and the rest may be sent to France, and no body be able to distinguish which is French and which Canadian property. The People having enjoyed a free and undisturbed exercise of their Religion ever since the capitulation of the country, their fears in that particular are much abated, but there still remains a Jealousy; it is to be hoped that in time this Jealousy will wear off; and certainly in this, much will depend upon the clergy; Perhaps methods may be found hereafter to supply the cures of this country with Priests well affected, But whilst Canada is stocked as she is now, with corps of Priests detached from Seminaries in France on whom they depend, and to whom they pay obedience, it is natural to conceive, that neither the Priests or those they can influence, will ever bear that Love and affection to a British government, which His Majesty's auspicious Reign would otherwise engage from the Canadians, as well as from His other subjects. No Persons have left this Government to go to France, except those who held military and civil employments under the French King; nor do I apprehend any emigrations at the Peace; being persuaded that the present Inlhabitants will remain under the British Dominion. I perceive none preparing to leave the government or that seem inclined to do it, unless it is a few Ladies, whose husbands are already in France, and they propose to leave the country when Peace is made, if their Husbands.;should not rather chuse to return to Canada. As I cannot discover that the Limits betwixt Canada and Louisiana were distinctly described, so as to be publickly known, I can only inform you what were generally believed to have been the Boundaries of Canada, and give you my own opinion, which is drawn from the Trade that has been constantly carried on by the Canadians under the authority and permission of their several governors; From hence I judge not only the Lakes which are indisputable, but the whole course of the Mississippi from its Hel to its Junction with the Illinois, to have been comprehended by the French, in the government of Canada. The People of Louisiana carry their Trade up the Missouri River, and I cannot find that the Traders from that Province ever went higher up



Page 20


20

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

the Mississippi than the mouth of the Ilinois River, on the contrary the Traders from Canada did constantly trade above the Ilinois from their Posts on Lake Michigan, even up the River Saint Croix, and the Falls of St. Anthony, and it was the Trade alone of the Mississippi Indians, which made the Post of the Baye des Puants so very advantageous. The Ilinois River though formerly in the District of Canada, was, after some disputes betwixt the Governors, annexed to Louisiana; a South Easterly Line drawn from the Portage betwixt the Ilinois River and the waters which run into Lake Michigan, will bring you to the post of Houilliatanon upon the Ouabache, four score leagues down that River, computing from that part where the Boats are launched, after crossing the Portage of the Miamis. This was the last trading Post belonging to Canada on that side, and was certainly the Boundary of Canada; on that side about sixty Leagues below this Post, is the Post of Vincennes, which was served by the Traders of Louisiana, and of course was the Boundary of that Province. This is the best Information I can procure you concerning the Limits, and what I have described to you are thought to be the real Boundaries betwixt the two Provinces. As I have answered the several Particulars of Lord Egremont's Letter, after having made the best enquiry, I shall think myself happy if the accounts I send you shall in any shape contribute to your transmitting to His Majesty the exact state of His Province of Canada. I am with regard and esteem His Excellency THos. GAGE Sir Jeffery Amherst. [p 222]



Page 21


TRADING POSTS.

21

A LIST AND ACCOUNT OF THE POSTS WHERE THE TRXDE WITH THE SAVAGES WAS CARRIED ON IN THE UPPER COUNTRY MARCH 20TH 1762. Posts sold to Particulars. For what Names. Where situated. rent per annum, Livres. Tamoscaming ----.---...--....... On a Lake of the same name north of the Outawa River........ 14,000 Sault Ste Marie..---........-..---------.. N. W. of Lake Huron----------------....----....---............-----------------.....-..---..... 18,000 Michipicoton.. ----...-..-------...... On the East bhore of Lake Superior......------.....--.------------------............ 12,000 Alrmipgon...-----...-..-....-...------. On Lake of same name north of Lake Superior.............-... 10,000 Kamanistiquia......--.---.--..... Up a large river north of the Mer d'ouest ---........--..---...---....... 8,000 La Mer d'ouest--..----- W. of Lake Superior---....---.-----------....-...............-----------------.....--. 20,000 Chaguimagon -..-- -- -. S. W. Shore of Lake Superior-......------------------------------- 12,000 La bayo des Puants.--.......---. On Lake Michigan---------------------........----....-------------................ 25,000 St. Joseph --.....------------- On a River south of Lake Michigan.--......-----...............---...-..-. 3,000 Total.......--..................---------------------------.............--------------------------------............. 122,000, Free Posts. Livres. Honilliatanon-on the River Ouabache Michillimackinac Detroit Miamis Passes for each canoe to these Posts were paid for at the rate of 600 L. and were obliged to carry 400 weight for the King. At an average forty canoes went up each year which amounted to 24,000 King's Posts. La Galette Cataracui ' Toronto - Niagara Presqu' Isle Dusquesne At these posts the Traffick was carried on for the King, and the merchandize furnished from His magazines, and doubtless he might have drawn some advantage from it, but the iniquitous manner in which it was carried on, occassioned His often being a considerable loser. Total arising from the Posts & Permits &c 146,000 THOMAS GAGE Fp 239] ' Maj. General



Page 22


22

REPORTS ON AMERICAN COLONIES.

REVENUES OF CANADA, MARCH 20, 1762. Exports. rates. Tax on Furs.- ___-__ _____ Livres. Sons. Deniers. Marmoset ------------------------------------------------------ ---------- 1---------- Each. Deer Skins--------------------------------------------------- 3 --------- ---------- pl100wt. Bear Skins ------------------------------------------------------ --------- 3---------- Each. Young do------------------------------------------------------- ---------- 1 6 do. Fox and Wild Cat Skins---------------------------------------- ---------- ---------- S8 Otter and Fisher Skins--------------------- -------------------- ---------- 3 ----- Beaver Eater's Skins.-------------- ------------------------------ ---------- 3 Wolf Skins - - -------------------------------------- ----- 1 6 Stags Skins----------------------------------------------------- ---------- 4 6 Bison---------------------------------------------------------- ---------- ---------- 6 Martin's Skins.--------------------------------------------- ---------- I----------1 Racoon -------------------------------------------------------- ---------- ---------- 8 Moose Deer ------------------------- ---------------------------- 2 ----------- Loup Cervier-------------- 7------------------------------------- ---------- 3 ----- Beaver Stones -------------------------------------------------- ---------- 1 ----- Imports. Duty of 3 p. Ct. ofl all dry goods. Wn,12 Livres pr. hogrshead. Brandy, 12 Sons pr. gallon. Bottled Wine, 1 Sou pr. Bottle. Total of Exports and Imports. irs Communibus ane-------------------400,000 The sale of Posts, Passp~rts, to the free Posts, Fines of Alienation and other Emoluments that were received on His Most Christian Majesty's account commuticus annis in Cnd----------------------200,000 600,000 Expence of Canada. irs Ordinaries and extraordinaries at the most moderate computation and when under the strictest managfement in time of peace was computed at ------------------------------ 160,000 THOS. GAGE, Maj. General. [p21



Page 23


MILITARY DISPATCHES. BRITISH ARMY IN NORTH AMERICA GEN. AMHERST 1758-1762. DISPOSITION OF HIS MAJESTY'S TROOPS IN NORTH AMERICA. Six companiesý of the 1st Battr At Presqu' Isle Pittsburgh Detroit and Michilimakinac Royal Americans QUEBEC 4th October 1 60 [p 144] JEFF. AMHERST COMMISSION. By His Excellency Jeffery Amherst Esq. Major general & commander in Chief of all His Majesty's Forces ih North America &ca. &ca. &ca. To Henry Gladwin Esq. Captain in His Majesty's 80th or Regt. of Light Armed Foot. Whereas I have thought it requisite for the better carrying on of His Majesty's service, that a Major should be appointed to His Majesty's 80th or Regt. of Light Armed Foot, I do by Virtue of the Power and 'Authority to me given and granted by His Majesty, hereby constitute and appoint you to be Major to the said Regiment, during this campaign only; after which you are to return to the Rank of Captain, unless provided for otherwise; you are therefore to serve with the said Regiment as Major, and duely to exercise the officers and soldiers thereof in arms and to use your best Endeavours to keep them in good



Page 24


21

MILITARY DISPATCHES.

order and Discipline; and I do hereby command them to obey you as their Major; and you are to observe and follow such orders and Directions from time to time as you shall receive from His Majesty, myself, or any other your superior officer according to the Rules & Discipline of war-Given at Albany, this Twenty Second Day of June, one Thousand seven Hundred & sixty one, In the First year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord George the Third, by the Grace of God, King of great Britain, France & Ireland. Defender of the Faith &ca. &ca. &ca. Endorsed: Copy of Gen. Amnhorst's Commission To Captain Henry Gladwin of the 60th or Regt of Light Armed Foot, appointing him to act as Major to said Regt during the Campaign only. Dated Albany, 22d June 1761. [p 210] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO SECRETARY OF WAR. ALBANY, 13th August 1761 SIR I have sent a Detachment of three Hundred men to the upper Lakes, under the command of Captain Gladwin of Gages, and I have Judged it for the good of His Majesty's service to appoint Captain Gladwin to act as Major during his Expedition, for which I have granted him a commission that I hope His Majesty will approve of. [signed] JEFF. AMHERST. Hon Mr. Townshend Secretary of War. [p 209] EXTRACTS. Sir Jeffery Amherst's Instructions to M. General Gage-Dated New York, 17th Novem., 1763. "It was my intention that the 42d Regt. should have garrisoned the Detroit and Posts above; but as it has been found impracticable for that Regt to advance from Fort Pitt, by the Route of Presqu' Isle, this Season, I have Empowered Major Gladwin to keep up the 80th Regt on such an Event.



Page 25


ALLOWANCES TO OFFICERS.

25

"Six companies of the 1st Battr 60th Regt are to continue at Fort Pitt, the other three companies being Detached to replace the South Carolina Independents, which are to be Disbanded. And the 42d are to be Quartered during the Winter on the communication between Fort Pitt and Philadelphia. "The 17th Regt (had not the present Insurrection of the Indians *obliged me to Detain the 55th which otherwise I should have sent to Ireland) was to be divided as follows vizt4 companys at Fort Ontario & Oswego Falls 1 Do Divided between the Posts at the East and West end of Oneida Lake 2 Do at Fort Stanwix 1 Do at Fort Edward 1 Do at Fort George But as I have acquainted the Secretary at War of the necessity of Detaining the 55th Regt for some time longer, which I hope will meet with His Majesty's Approbation, the companys of that Regt. now at Fort Edward and Fort George, may Remain there untill the 'Service shall Permit the Regt. to be sent to Europe; and the 17th and 55th Remain as at present Quartered. "I have only to Add to this, that, agreeably to the Orders received from England, should the Service permit the 55th to be sent from this country, & the 80th Regiment to be Reduced, these orders should be Immediately complyed with. The men of the 80th of course should be drafted to compleat the other corps, and should it be Requisite to -keep any men of the 55th they should also be Drafted that none of the corps remaining in any part of this continent may be Incompleat. Endorsed: Extracts-Sir Jeffery Amherst's Instructions to Major General Gage 17th November 1763. [p 370] *COPY OF AN ENCLOSURE IN THE SECRETARY AT WAR'S LETTER TO MAJOR GENERAL GAGE, DATED 21ST JANY. 1764. "As the officers, commanding at the several Posts in North Sir J. Amh erst's Pro America, are, from the situation and circumstances of their posals for al- respective commands, put to extraordinary expenses, I would lowances to be made to the humbly propose the following, allowances to be made to the comg. offrs. at commanding officer at each Pbst, and which should be paid ye Posts in N. to the commanding officer residing at the garrison for the A. time being. 4



Page 26


26

MILITARY DISPATCHES.

Crown Point Seven shillings & six- Oswego pence pr. Diem Fort WXm. I Augustus to the corn- Niagara manding officer for the Detroit time being at Pittsburg-St. J obn's Iland each of these Posts. Fort Cumberland Fort Frederick St Johns Ticonderogo Fort George Five shill- Fort Edward ings p. Diem to each. Fort Stanwix Oswegatchie Michillimakinac East End of Oneida Lake West End of Oneida Lake Two sh ill- Oswego Falls ings and six-Fort Schlosser near Niagara pense p. Diem to each. Fort Schuyler near Fort Stanwix Each of the Posts that will be taken possession of on Lake Erie or depending on the Detroit. "From the. reports that will be made from Louisiana it may perhaps be thought proper to put the Posts there on the above footing, and by making these allowances, the commanding Officers will be enabled to live comfortably, & becoming their stations as commanding Officers of Forts. The service, in my opinion, will be best carried on, by this method, and the expense of salaries to commandants Fort fMajors &ca will be saved." J. AMHERST. Endorsed: Sir J. A's proposal for allowances to be made to officers commanding ye several posts in N.A. [p 320]



Page 27


BOUQUET PAPERS.* EXTRACT FROM MY JOURNAL 5th April 1759 Two captains ta.ken by the Wiandots about a twelve mo ago from Green Bayer in Virginia came here. They live with the Indians at their Town, eight miles up the east side of the Huron River. This River is about three-quarters of a mile broad, the navigation up from the Lake quite easy and safe, some Islands, but no Rocks nor Shoals. Fort de Troit is situated about a mile higher up on the west side of the River, just in sight of the w. end at Town. It is a Square without Bastions, no Ditch round it, and the Stockades are old and rotten. They have no Artillery mounted, but four Guns lie in one of the Houses. About fifty French Families live along the River below the * Henry Bouquet, British soldier, born in Rolle, Switzerland, in 1719, died in Pensacola. Florida, in February, 1766. He first entered the Dutch service, afterward that of Sardinia, and in 1748 was again in the service of Holland, as lieutenant-colonel of Swiss guards. He entered the English army with the same rank in 1756, became colonel of the 60th foot 19th Feb. 1762 and brigadier-general in 1765. He co-operated with Gen. Forbes in the expedition against Fort Duquesne in 1758, and it was by his advice that the army constructed a new road through Pennsylvania, instead of using the old one made by Braddock, and approved by Washington. On 12 Oct. Bouquet was attacked by a body of French and Indians at Loyal Hanna, but repelled them and was present at the capture of the fort on 21 Nov. In 1763 Bouquet then in command at Philadelphia, was ordered to the relief of the same fort, then called Fort Pitt (now Pittsburg). He set out with 500 men, mostly Highlanders, and found the frontier settlements in a state of terror, many of the inhabitants fleeing eastward to escape the fate of their neighbors, who had been murdered- by savages. The expedition relieved Forts Ligonier and Bedford, and by noon of 5 Aug. had nearly reached Bushy Run, a small stream on which Bouquet intended to camp. Suddenly a furious attack was made by Indians on the advance guard. Re-enforcements were sent forward, the cattle and baggage trains parked, and a firm stand made against the assailants, who appeared on all sides in increased numbers, and the plunging of 400 frightened and wounded horses, in the square, added to the confusion. The contest continued until night and was renowed on the following morning. The troops were on a hill where no water could be obtained, and Bouquet, seeing that a change of plan was necessary, feigned retreat to bring the enemy together in a compact body. The ruse was successful: the Indians, seeing that the advance guard fell back, left their ambush and rushed to the attack in a mass, when Bouquet's men easily surrounded them and, by volleys of musketry arid a determined bayonet-charge, utterly routed them. Bouquet lost 8 officers and 115 men. The rest of his march was unmolested, and he reached Fort Pitt with supplies four days later. In October, 1764, he led an expedition against the Ohio Indians and compelled the Shawnees, Delawares, and other tribes to make peace at Tuscarawas. An account of the expedition by William Smith, D. D., was published in Philadelphia in 1765, and afterward translated into French (new edition, with preface by Francis Parkman, Cincinnati, 1835).-Appleton's Cyclopaedia of American Biography.



Page 28


BOUQUET PAPERS.

Fort and seventy above it. 400 soldiers have been stationed there, but at present there are only 200, which is generally the strength of the garrison. They are poorly supplied, the French Farmers living much as the Indians do being Canadian. The Land is not fertile, a little wheat is raised on the River Bank but the Cattle are often killed by the Indians. HUGH MERCER. [A 14-1, p 295] EDWD SHIPPEN TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. LANCASTER, 23rd August 1759. DEAR SIR Your agreeable Favours of the 13th & 17th Instant I received & am highly obliged to you for the fine news of the French abandoning Venango &c and I hope if an expedition be formed against Fort Detroit, they will behave no less dastardly, as soon as they get intelligence of it. I am Dear Sir your esteem'd friend and most humble servant EDWD SHIPPEN. Endorsed: Letter from Mr. Ship5en to Colonel Bouquet, 23rd August 1759. [A 14-2, p 440] LETTER FROM PIERRE FRANCOIS VAUDREUIL. (Translation.) MONTREAL, 9th Feb 1760. I notify you Sir that I have been under the necessity of capitulating yesterday with General Amherst's Army. This town is as you "know without defence, my troops were considerably diminished, our means and our resources totally exhausted. We were surrounded by these armies who united numbered not less.than thirty thousand men.



Page 29


'^' \ '

VAUDREUIL'S CAPITULATION AT MONTREAL. 29 General Amherst was on the 6th of this month in view of the walls of this town. General Murray had taken one of our outposts and the army of Lake Champlain was at La Prairie & Longueuil. Under these circumstances we had no hope of success and could not sacrifice the troops. I have wisely capitulated with General Amherst on very advantageous terms for the colours & particularly for the inhabitants of the Post of Michillimakinac. They have liberty to exercise their own religion, keep possession of their household goods & real estate & also of their furs &c. They have the same privileges as all the subjects of Great Britain. The same conditions are accorded to the military and they can appoint attorneys to act in their interests during their absence. They and the citizens in general can either dispose of their goods to. the English or French or ship them with them if they think proper to leave the country. They keep their negro and Parris slaves but are obliged to give back those taken to the English. The English General has declared that the Canadians become subjects of His Britannic Majesty and for this'reason the people have not been kept in the "Coutume de Paris." With regard to the troops he has imposed on them the condition of not serving during the present war and of putting down their arms till they can be sent back to France. You will therefore Sir assemble the officers and men who are at your post, make them put down their arms & go -with them to whatever sea port you judge proper to ship them to France. The citizens & inhabitants of Michillimackinac will be consequently under the command of the officer whom Gen. Amherst shall have destined for this Post. You will send copies of my letter to St. Joseph & to the posts near supposing that there remain some soldiers there in order that the inhabitants may conform to it. I count on having the pleasure of seeing you in France with all your gentlemen. I have the honor to be very sincerely Sir your very humble very obedient servant [A 8, p 170] VAUDREUIL.



Page 30


30

BOUQUET PAPERS.

MAJOR WILLIAM WALTER TO COLONEL HENRY BOUQUET. NIAGARA July 29TH 1760 DEAR COLONEL I am to acknowledge the favor of your Letter dated 20th Instant with a list of materials you want for carrying on your works at Presquisle. I have ordered Mr. Demler who is left Engineer to this Garrison, to send every article that can be spared from this Fort which he sends by this opportunity. I likewise send you twenty barrils pork, as to flour it cannot well be spared from hence as we have only two hundred and eighty Barrils in Store. You mention that you depend upon being supplyed with ammunition and provisions from this Garrison. I dont think it Practicable as the navigation is precarious and my Garrison only consists of a small number of men and a great many will always be employed in repairing the works, the next day after we left you all our Boats was drove on shore amongst the Rocks two of the boats was dash'd to pieces and the others was much Damaged. By this opportunity I have sent Genl Monchton an exact account of the Fortifications, Artillery, Ammunition & Provisions by which he shall be able to see what assistance I can give you. I have sent one officer and 30 men with the Pork and Tools Mr. Weedin's Returns with this party I am told by some Indians this day that the Boat we heard was on the Lake with French and Indians is returned to Detroit, and that they only wanted to see what we was about. I beg my compliments to the gentlemen with you we have not one morcel of fresh meat in the garrison & the fishing season is over. I am with Great Esteem Dear Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant Colonel Bouquet WM WALTERS Endorsed: Major Waltors 29th July 1760 [A 15, p 198] JOURNAL OF COL. HENRY BOUQUET. 22d Capt Biddle returned in the whale Boat and Part of this Party reported that the Peninsula was very swampy, bad Timber tolerable grass an old canoe but no Enemies. I desired him in sending back



Page 31


JOURNAL OF COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

31

the Boat to bring over the rest of his Party to send his men to bring the Canoe to the Fort-in the afternoon two of those men came in and reported that they had been fired upon by a party of 20 Indians and had alone escaped. I sent immediately the Whale Boat to reconnoitre and save any of the men who could have concealed himself (sic) and,Capt MlcNeil and a party of 100 men to the neck of the Peninsula. 23 JCol. Maurer went early to join the Detachment and sent to me that they had found two of the men killed and scalped, & the Serjeant wounded with seven Buckshott but without danger for his life, the two *other men have likely been taken prisoners. The 17th July 1760 arrived at Presqu' Isle settled the embarkation. 18th The Troops embarked settled with the Pack Horses' drivers & sent them off. Received Letters from General Monckton at 124. Col Mercer arrived in the afternoon at 3 with 150 Pennsylvanians. 19 Capt. Croghan had Intelligence of a Party of 20 Indians sent from Detroit to obstruct our motions; they went back with assurances that their Intentions were not to hurt us. Lieut McLoud of the Light Infantry returned in a Whale Boat in Quest of three Deserters. 20th Wrote by Capt Croghan to the General 4 Letters. Majr. Gates Capt Barnley Mr. Peters. The carpenters would find no Timber in Peninsula. 21st Wrote by Lieut McLoud to Major Walters to ask for several things wanted here and to Capt Etherington; sent a Party to reconnoitre the Peninsula; Begun to fall trees and make a Store for the Provisions. 24th Col. Mercer built a Block House upon the Neck to be a Post for a Serjeant & 12 men with Loop Holes, and Platform, Picked on the outside. He sent a Lieut & 40 men to take our Bullocks and horses over to the Peninsula 5 Indians arrived in camp; made an alteration in the 'choice of centrys Cut fencing. Discovered three French Battoes in the March. 25th Wrote to Col. Mercer to build the Post for the grass guard for 30 men & situated near the Lake opposite the Fort with a Pen under it to keep the Cattle & Horses at night



Page 32


32

BOUQUET PAPERS.

20th Col. Mercer returned with the Party having left in the Peninsula 1 off 2 s 2 c 103 Private 27 The Indians we had left us one of the Enemy appeared upon the Peninsula. 28 I went to see our Party in the Peninsula 29 Wrote to the General by a Carpenter going down sick with two Indians. Wrote to Bentinck [A 8, p 309] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. PRESQU' ISLE 6th August SIR 1760 Mr. Weedon Lieut of the Virgn. Detachment returned from Niagara, on the 4th in the evening with his Party, and was followed by Lieut Jenkins and 30 R. A. with three Battoes carrying twenty Barrels of Pork and a few Tools, They have been seven days from Niagara. Major Walters writes me that he has no flour to spare. The navigation of the Shallow Lake seems very precarious, the storm raising very suddenly and few Landing Places. Our Horses have no strength and as we have only two saws and neither Pair Pitch (Sic) we can not build many here. It seems difficult to Lodge here one years provisions unless cattle and salt would be sent from Pittsburgh and we trade of the River for flour. (Sic) We have heard nothing yet of Capt. Allec. The Plans Receipts from W- will be sent to you by the first opportunity. We had last night five deserters of the Pennsylvanians. If they could be arrested it would put a stop to desertion kor the future. The Indians coming back from Niagara begin to call here and are almost starved the Deer having now left the Lake. If Trader was here he could pick up some Beaver. They want chiefly Powder and Tobacco. Hoop of the R. A. taken Prisoner at Major Grants' affair and who, has made his escape in May from Detroit tells me that the French had 45 Regulars, 150 men come with 24 canoes from some part of the Mississippi. 655 delris from the defeat of W-600 Inhabitants in all.



Page 33


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON.

33

1450 men able to carry arms. 150 Wiandots 200 Ottaways 100 Pottawatamies 100 Chiloz 550 which live at or near the Fort. They have - two Pounders and two 85 i 209 (Sic) 354 8 346 Letter to Genl. Monckton [A 8, p 148] 6th August 1760 COL HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN ROBERT MONCKTON. PRESQU' ISLE 15th Septr 1760 SIR I am to acknowledge your Letters of the 23rd & 27th August the last I received yesterday by Capt. Montour who arrived here with Chingas and two other Indians whom he had picked up at Custologa he could get no body else to come with him. Chingas and another go back to morrow. I shall observe on this and several similar cases, that the manager at Pittsburgh, seems not to represent you things as they ought, I cannot perceive that they have any Influence, and we had more real serving from the Indians two years ago before they interfered than we ever had since. As an appearance of those people may be of use I keep here some Chippewas who will not stay long neither, having hunted for a fortnight without killing a single deer. This must be a bad country for game. No other Indians settled on this side the Lake from Detroit to Niagara except few straggling families who have no fixed h1abitations. I wrote you that I had sent them off after the ennemys, they followed them for 3 days and over taked a party of about twenty' of them, who going back by land, at the sight of our Indians they run off leaving their meat upon the field, and our friends having no Mohawks (sic) could not pursue them. Our Battoes are this moment returned from Niagara, with 60 Barrels of flour a great deal of which is entirely spoiled having served all last winter for Breastwork at Oswego. 5



Page 34


S 34

BOUQUET PAPERS.

General Amherst had ordered the Sloops from Niagara to follow him, But he is expected back. In the mean time, no stores whatever for our flatt. I expect in five days the boat which carried your last letter & I shall immediately send you what news she brings. It is said that General Amherst had taken with his floating Batterys the largest of the French vessels and was firing from three other land Batterys against the works of L'Isle Royale. The Inclosed piece of Intelligence was transmitted me by Major Walters. Fifty weight of Oakum was received from Capt. Gordon were not sufficient to cork the flatt, But as we have no other Resources we shall make shift to make her go to Niagara even if we receive no assistance from that place in taking Soldiers Tents for sail &c. There will be no occasion- to send us any more Troops as our Houses will be finished in the beginning of October and I shall send immediately a Party to Le Boeuf to prepare the Timber for a Block House 32 by 24 of this form We received the four Horses which I shall send down as far (sic) as we have finished Le Boeuf, they will be taken care off But having no corn and very bad grass they will soon be mere Skeletons like the rest.. The deserters of the Pens. have been severely punished; one of them 4ýmuel McCullough deserted again in coming up between Pittsburgh and Venango. The Corporal and one Private of the R. A. have been sent to Niagara. As our Works will be finished before I can receive an answer to the letter I beg you will send me your orders what I am to do; what number "of men I am to leave you here and at Le Boeuf, too late to expect any one from Chicohigo this year that the Hutts will be sufficient for their use. But as a Vessel will be wanted next year-I think the Timber should be cut and the Boards Planes &c prepared at the Landing Place at Niagara, so as to be finished early next Spring. If you should approve of it, you will please to let me know how many of the carpenters to send there and as no more men can be spared from this last place than will carry on the Batteau Service, Major Walters ought to have your orders to furnish a party from



Page 35


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO MAJOR WM. WALTERS.

35

Niagara to cut and saw the Timber & assist the Ship Carpenter. If Mr. Barrett is wanted any place else he can now be spared here. To General Monckton 15th September 1760 [A, 8 p 174] COL. HENRY BOUQUET 'TO MAJOR WILLIAM WALTERS. PRESQU' ISLE 22nd September 1760. DEAR MAJOR I received your last of' the 8th Instant by Major Smallman, and waited for the return of another Boat I sent you the 11th with Letters from Genl Monckton by Lieut Bedford. The weather having proved very bad since, I dispatch another boat to inquire if any accident has happened to him. I had a letter last night from Major Stewart who commands at Yenango informing me that the second Instant Enr. Du Plessis who acted there as Engineer went in a small Boat with two men up French Creek to reconnoitre and has not been heard of since. He must have been killed or taken by some French Party, and I beg you would inquire of the Indians coming from Detroit if he has been carried there, and in that case get him recommended by your French Prisoners. This accident distresses me much, that young man having a very promising genius. I was extremely sorry to hear of the Behaviour of Ens. Wm. Hay to you; none but a mad man be guilty of it. I did not expect that he would ever go to such excesses, tho' I have had many Proofs that he was not in his right senses. As I suppose you have reported him to the General he must take his chance. But if the affair was yet in your Power I should have wished you could represent him as unfit for the Service and endeavour to obtain him liberty to quit, and receive some money for his commission to carry him to his family. I send no more than this Boat as you wrote me that you could not spare more provision till the Sloop returned: The Flour last arrived was extremely damaged, and if you should receive of the same again, I desire you would please to get it inspected & not send any that was unfit for use, as it is better to condemn it at once than to be at the trouble of carrying it. As soon as you inform me that we can be supplied, I will send the four Battoes and the Flatt, which together can load about two hundred Barrils at one trip: and tho you have no store' room at the Land

Page 36


36

BOUQUET PAPERS.

ing: The Flour and Pork cannot suffer much by laying a few days exposed to the weather, and it will save time if you can save time beforehand. There are general expectations of a Peace, I enclose you the last News Papers. Our Post will be finished in the beginning of October, and we are about another at Le Boeuf. I beg my compliments to the Gentlemen w" you remain with great truth. Dear Sir Your most obedt hble Servt HENRY BOUQUET. We shall send back all your Tools. I send you copy of Genl Amherst's answer concerning our Recruiting friend, which Please communicate to our Captains. I inclose also the list of the officers who have purchased comisions in the army that you may make any addition or alteration necessary for the officers with you & send it me to be transmitted home. H. B. Our adjutant desires that an exact account be kept of all the variations in your company to be inserted when we join in the Regimental Book. Endorsed: To Major Walters, wrote another on that subject the 30th Sep 1760. Memor: The Newspapers. The Tools. [A 23-1, p 34. GEN ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL HENRY BOUQUET PITTSBURGH 2d October SIR 1760 I hav. the pleasure to Inclose you the News Papers which will inform you of the Surrender of Montreal and Canada on the 8th Ult. toGeneral Amherst, as I have no letters by the way of New York I can give you no Particulars about this Department as I expect my Letters. will come by Presqu' Isle I desire you will forward them with all



Page 37


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JOHN STANWIX.

37

-expedition to Pittsburgh. The Bearers are to return immediately. I heartily congratulate you on this happy event. I am Sir With much Esteem your obedient Humble Servant ROBT. MONCKTON Col Bouquet Endorsed: General Monckton 2nd October 1760 [A 8 p 179] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JOHN STANWIX. PRESQU' ISLE Dr. G. 9th October 1760 I hope this will find you safe and happy at home. It was my fate to put in Execution the long projected scheme of taking Post upon Lake Erie. I marched from Fort Pitt the 7th July with a Detachment of 400 IR. A. Rank & File and 100 Virginians with a convoy of Pack Horses Beeves &c. The distance to Venango is about 80 miles & 65 to Presqu' Isle in all about 150. As we had only an Indian Path very narrow & full of fallen trees several creeks & difficult Places to cross, the country very hilly full of Swamp. I was 10 days in getting here where I met Major Gladwin with 400 Infantry & Provincials, and Battoes for the Detachment of the R. A. which embarked the 18th for Niagara under the command of Major Walters, who was to relieve the garrison of.the 44th Regiment. I Remained at Presqu' Isle with the 100 Virginians to build a Royal Block house and was reinforced by Col. Mercer with 150 of the 1'ensilva new levies. We have been often harassed by Parties sent from Detroit & lost several men. A month after General Monckton sent Major Stewart with a Detach- * ment to take Post at Venango, & build another Block house. Poor Du Plessis who was with him having been ordered to reconnoitre French Creek, has never been heard of since, supposed to have been killed by the Indians with the two men he had with him. That young man is a loss to the Service & a very sensible one to me. We expected to be supplied from Niagara with Provisions & naval stores to build Battoes, But that Fort having then little or nothing to spare "we have drawn most of our Provisions from Pittsburgh by land; The



Page 38


38

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Alleghany being so low that the Battaux that went up with Major Stewart were dragged one third of the way. General Amherst having been obliged to take with him the Brig intended for the supply of Niagara. It was but yesterday I heard they had Provisions to spare us. Major Rogers arrived yesterday sent from Montreal by General Amherst with a Party of his Rangers. He proceeds himself to day to Pittsburgh with Letters for the Pennsylvanians, another Detachment of your Battn is to come up to embark here for Detroit, to garrison that Fort, Michillimackinac and their dependencies. The Rangers have brought no Battoes for them & I have only a few which I must send to Niagara for Provisions. How we shall send them off & victual them I don't know yet. The distance from here to Detroit is 240 miles & as far again to Michillimakinac, when that Detachment arrives the season will be so far gone that I don't think possible to garrison any other Post but Detroit this Winter. Rogers with his Rangers is to escort to Albany the French Troops in those quarters bearing only Americans there. I shall have the Pleasure to write to you from Pittsburgh when I get down. Inclosed are the two last Returns I received from the Battn & I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Endorsed: To General Stanwix 9th October 1760. (A 23-1 p 39) GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT PITT October ye 18th SIR 1760. By Majr Rogers I received Letters from Genl Amherst, to send a Detachment of Regulars with the Majr to take possession of the Posts of Detroit, Michillimackinac and their Dependencies, Captain Campbell with 100 men marches this day for that Purpose. Rogers will deliver you this he goes on before, to assist in getting the boats repaired. And I now send all the Ship Carpenters with Tools &c to build and repair as you shall see necessary. I should think they had best first set about repairing & then build some new ones to carry Provisions after them. On which article I shall write you more at large to morrow & upon several other Points. As I dont find there is any Likelihood that the Assembly of Pensilvania will furnish us any men, I shall be obliged to send for 60 or 70 men from Niagara. However I shall write Colonel Mercer to morrow



Page 39


GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

39

about his men. Major Stewart has orders to forward you all thle Cattle he has now, which are about 40 & Captain Campbell makes 40 or 50 more with him which will help save the salt. Capt. Campbell has likewise a number of Pack Horses, which after they have delivered their present Loads, consisting of officer's baggage tools &c, Flour Rum & Salt they are to continue carrying between Venango & Presqu' Isle, and I shall press as many more as I can get and send them on. 13 Battoes with some Ammunition & other articles as above set off this day for Venango. As Majr Rogers tells me that French Creek would be very navigable if the Trees were cutt that are fallen into it. I should think that you might a capt & 80 or 100 of the Provincials for that purpose, giving them some X cutt saws of which I now send you some up. Besides it would take also many Laters from your Post a material article at Present. I shall to morrow write you more particularly. In the meantime you will forward everything as much as you can. I am sorry to keep you up there so long. But you cannot well be spared till you get them off. Mr. Bassett is much wanted at Venango. If you will not want him with you, you will let him come there. I suppose he will have taken sketches of Presqu' Isle and, Le Boeuf. I forward you Letters and News Papers. I am with much esteem Sir 0 your obedient Hble Servt. ROBT. MONOKTON. P. S. Pray my compliments to Col. Mercer and tell him I will write him to morrow. Endorsed: Letter from Geni Monckton dated October 18th and received by Major Rogers the 28th in ye evening. [A 8, p 180.] GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT PITT 19th October 1760 I wrote to you yesterday by Major Rogers and have directed both him and Captain Campbell to show you my Instructions to them, By which you will see the method I propose for supplying them with provisions. As the ship carpenters will have joined you by the time you receive this, you will immediately sett them to work in repairing



Page 40


40

BOUQUET PAPERS.

the Boats & afterwards in Building others, which I think-for the Lake had best be large. Major Stewart has orders to continue supplying you with Cattle and flour as fast as he can, and I enclose you my Letter to Major Walters open, for your perusal, that you may know my orders to Him, which you will be so good as seal and forwardCapt. Campbell has a copy of the Capitulation of Canada which he will shew you. Besides the men I desire you to send down French Creek, in my Letter of yesterday, you will likewise send here all you can spare, to save Provisions, I write to Colonel Mercer concerning the Pensilvanians. As soon as you have seen the Detachment off and put every thing in train, you will come down without any thing further from me. Major Rogers and Capt. Campbell's Instructions and my Letter to Major Walters, which I enclose you, will be sufficient for your guidance. We have nothing new of the last Post, Carolina is in a very bad situation. You will be so good to send me an Express, the Instant the Detachment setts off, that I may acquaint General Amherst with it, Three Horses with Iaer leaves this to-morrow, and others, with additional Blankets & some Palliasses for Captain Campbell's Detachment. I shall take care likewise to send up Blankets for Presqu' Isle and Venango. I am With much esteem Your obedient humble Servant Colonel Bouquet ROBT MONCKTON Endorsed: Letter from General Monckton 19th October 1760 Received the 81st Ditto by Mr. Croghan [A 8, p 182] INSTRUCTIONS TO MAJOR ROGERS. Instructions given by Brigadier General Monckton to Major Rogers the 19th day of October 1760. You will as soon as possible after your return to Presqu' Isle with the Rangers you brought with you to that Post, and the Detachment of the R. A. R. under Capt. Campbell, now on their march to join your Detachlmt, proceed in your whale Boats, and such Batteaux as Col. Bouquet comr. at Presqu' Isle may be able to collect for you, taking with you as much Provisions as you can, along Lake Erie to the Detroit, to put in Execution the Instructions you have already received from General Amherst. Upon your arrival near Detroit, it will be proper for you to send an officer forward to the officer commanding the French Garrison there, to acquaint him that you are come



Page 41


INSTRUCTIONS TO MAJOR ROGERS. #

41

to take Possession of those Posts, which by the Capitulation of the 8th Septr now belong to the King of great Britain; and afterwards deliver him with your own hands the inclosed Letter. When that you have put in Execution your orders relative to that Post, I would recommend it to you to leave Capt. Campbell there, to keep possession of it, and do anything that may be necessary in your absence. As you will on your Landing there have many boats to spare, you will immediately send them off, with some of your own Detachment, either to Niagara or Presqu' Isle or both, as you shall by the Intelligence you may get, find the most practicable to fetch Provisions for the Troops that are to remain. I would likewise recommend it to you to engage some of the Inhabitants to assist in fetching Provisions, as they will doubtless have many canoes and Boats and as there are many Traders at Niagara & I have ordered others to Presqu' Isle. They will by that means have an opportunity of getting any little necessaries they may want in exchange for their Furrs & Skins, but they must be told that they are to bring back Provisions for which they will be paid. As the season is now advancing fast, you will yourself with Captain Campbell, whom I must recommend it to you to consult with on all occasions, Judge how far it will be practicable for his Detachment to keep Possession of the other Posts this Winter, which will greatly depend on the distance they are from Detroit, the possibility of getting Provisions there, and of having a practicable communication with him-not but the bringing of the French Troops from those Posts and the disarming the Inhabitants residing in those Disu'ricts will be absolutely necessary as by your Instructions from General Amherst. You have inclosed a copy of the Oath of Allegiance which by General Amhert's Instructions you are to administer to the Inhabitants. In my letter to the officer commanding the French Troops at Detroit and Michillimakinac J have in the strongest manner prest them to procure the release of as many Prisoners as they can from the Indians in those Parts; which Prisoners with the officers and men of the French Troops together with the Arms of. the Inhabitants you will bring off with you. In regard to your return after having performed the service directed by your Instructions from General Amherst, you yourself will be the best Judge of, from the Information you may get there, and according to the season of the year. As the Inhabitants in a "great measure depend on their guns for their subsistence,' it will be necessary that you leave- some few with 6



Page 42


42

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Capt. Campbell for him to give out at such times, to such as may best deserve from their attachment to His Majesty's government such Indulgence. Should you and Captain Campbell think that some of your Rangers may be necessary to be left there, you may in that case leave a Sub". with a small party. You have also with this a Letter for the Commanding Officer of the French Troops at Michillimackinac, which you will likewise deliver him with your own hands as the former. As I am informed that there is a Detatchment of an officer and some of the French Troops of Mr. Brehm's command at Shawane Town you will desire him to send off an Express to order them up here, that they may be ready to Join him to go with him to France. I mention this in a letter I write to him. Mr. Duplessis, an Assistant Engineer, having been taken in French Creek this Summer, you will inquire after him, and procure his releasement, that he may return to his duty. You will keep up the strictest discipline in the Troops under yr. command and not suffer any of the inhabitants to be disturbed or molested as they are now become the subjects of the King of Great Britain-you will by every opportunity acquaint me of your proceedings. The officers commanding at Presqu' Isle and Niagara will have orders to deliver Provisions to any Boats you may Land and any other stores or necessaries you may want. You will communicate these Instructions to Colonel Bouquet commanding officer at Presqu' Isle that he may be informed of the steps to be taken for supplying you with Provisions & Stores, given under my Hand at Fort Pitt this 19th of October 1760. ROBT. MONCKTON. You have with this my Letter to the officer commanding at Detroit and Michillimackinac Inclosing the Marquis De Vaudreuils Letter to them. 20th Oct. 1760. [A 8, p 184] R. M. OATH OF ALLEGIANCE. I swear that I shall be faithful and that I shall behave myself honestly towards His sacred Majesty George the Second, by the Grace of God King of Great Britain, France and Ireland, Defender of the Faith and that I will defend him and his in this Country with all my Power, against his or their ennemies; and further I swear to



Page 43


INSTRUCTIONS TO CAPTAIN CAMPBELL.

43

make known and reveal to His Majesty His General, or their assistants in place present, as much as depends of me all Traitors or all conspirators that could be formed against his Sacred person, his Country or his Government. GENERAL MONOKTON, INSTRUCTIONS TO CAPTAIN CAMBLE. You are with your Detachment to proceed with all possible Dispatch to Presqu' Isle & to put yourself under the command of Major Rogers to proceed with him to assist in putting in Execution the Instructions he has received from General Amherst-as the Detachment of R. A. under your command are to remain & keep possession of the Posts now Possessed by the French at Detroit, Michillimakinac & their dependencies, as far as it may be found practicable. I herewith enelose you copy of the Capitulation for your guidance in ye command and by which I refer you. I have in my Instructions to Major Rogers fully sett fourth the steps necessary to be taken for laying in Provisions for your Detachment and desired him to consult with you in regard to the Posts you may be able to garrison, supply with Provisions and keep up a communication with for the winter. As by the Major's Instructions from General Amherst and in consequence of the Capitulation all the Inhabitants are to be disarmed & their Arms brought off I have (as the subsistence of the Inhabitants greatly depends on their Arms) recommended to him, to leave with you some few that you may deliver them out to such of the Inhabitants as may by their attachment to the British Government merit such an Indulgence. By the Capitulation the Inhabitants become His Majesty's Servants, by which they enjoy great Privileges. They must therefore be made (if necessary) to assist, as in others His Majesty's colonies, in transporting Provisions and other Services for the British Good with their Boats and canoes, for which they will be paid. You will during your command endeavour to Procure the Release of as many Prisoners as you can that may be with the Indians of that Post. You will maintain the strictest discipline in your Troops and suffer no Insults to be committed on the Inhabitants as by the Capitulation of the 8th Sept. they are to become His Majesty's Subjects. Major Rogers will leave such Boats as you may want, and a Detachment of his Rangers if it should be necessary upon your consulting together. You will take care upon Major Roger's Return not to keep more men with you than you can well maintain. I have ordered some Blankets and Palliasses for your Detachment.



Page 44


44

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Every thing is so fully sett fourth in ye Capitulation that I have only to add that you will as opportunity offers, or necessity requires transmit to General Amherst accounts of your proceedings and any material occurrences: make all necessary observations and explore the Country as much as the Season will admit of: you will likewise try to reconcile the minds of the Indian Inhabitants of those Posts to the British Interests, by acquainting them that a free trade will be opened to all Nations they showing and manifesting by their behavior and conduct, a due and proper attachment to the British Government now posessed of all Canada. When any Boats are sent for Provisions either to Niagara or Presqu Isle a proper person should be sent to receive and give receipt for the same. You will make known these orders to Colonel Bouquet, that he may be informed of the steps taken to supply you with Provisions and Stores. Given under my Hand at Fort Pitt the 19th day of October 1760. ROBT. MONCKTON. [A 8, p 188.] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR Major Rogers and his Detachment came safe to this place the 19tb of November We had only the misfortune to loose a man of my company that fell overboard by some accident, and some Batteaux drove ashore and some Boxes of Cartridges damaged. There is noe dependance on the lake at this season of the year, is at least one hundred Leagues from this to Presqu' Isle but People here say it is still a better navigation than the north coast. Two days after we left you, we were joined by some of the principal people of ye Tawa Nation, who came to make peace with you at Presqu' Isle, who returned with us and then by the Wandots whom we were obliged to humour and give them Provisions as we did not know what Reception we were to have at this Place, they were highly pleased with what we told them; but all this added to the consumption of our Provisions, you know how little we could spare, but we could not help it and some of it not fit to be made use of. Mr. Belethe would give noe credit to the report of our coming aa Friends, but when I brought him the Marquis Vaudreuils Letters, he did everything with a good grace, I am certain when you see him you will not be soe much prejudiced against him besides he is now your



Page 45


CAPTAIN DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. 45 Prisoner-your prospect of sending the cartel by Land has turned very well, they have been of the greatest use to us. Mr. Navarre will continue to act in his old employment till he puts in the way of it, he thinks the Inhabitants can supply our Detachment with Flour till next Spring or very near that time, but how we shall be supplyed with meat will be the Difficulty, we are still in hopes of 5 Boats from Niagara and there is no Dependance on the lake, they expect it to be frooze every hour. I believe we could get some people to goe from this, I doe not know how far it would answer, there horses must be wore out before they got there and could not return with a load. I shall be better Judge of what we want when Capt Crochan returns. You could gett Indians to undertake it from Pittsburgh-we found the King's Stores here almost empty, some Barrils of powder and not much of anything else. I have not got a Return of it as yet, as Major Rogers took all that on himself he is to give me over everything that belongs to the- Fort to morrow. Major Rogers is preparing to send to the Posts to bring off the People he cannot possibly send any of us as the Season is too far advanced and a want of Provisions, everybody here says he will find great difficulty to goe himself to Michillimakmac even with a small Detachment they doubt even if it is possible to be done. We are to have a treaty with Indians the day after to morrow, I shall (sic) a good of Difficulty to manadge them for the first time they are so much accustomed to come to the French Commandant for everything they want. The Inhabitants seem very happy at the change of government, but they are in great want of everything it has been a very flourishing place before the war, plenty of everything. The Fort is much better than we expected it is one the best stockades I have seen, but the commandant's house and what belongs to the King is in very bad repair, we got our People quartered in the Fort for the first time this night: I shall be able to write more fully about everything in a few days. I shall be glad to hear from you how soon it is possible. I am with the greatest respect Your most obedient humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL DETROIT November 2d 1760



Page 46


46

BOUQUET PAPERS.

No account of poor Duplessis Mr Belletre will satisfy you that they nothing of it at Detroit. Endorsed: Letter from Capt Campbell dated Detroit 2d Dec. received 24th do. 1760. [A 15, p. 278.] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO MAJOR STEWART. Answer to Major Stewart. Received his Beeves and 19 Horses loaded with Flour and Stores All ye Planks were sent down and I hope arrived safe, he may keep as many Pennsylvanians as will be necessary to carry on the works she can conveniently feed. If he has no orders. to the contrary from Genl. Monckton But all the Escorts are to be performed by Virginians and may be much reduced now as I see no danger upon the communication a few good men will be sufficient with each Party. I send down all the three Carpenters and as Mr Basset will be there I need say nothing further on to your -----------. Having met with all possible disappointment in Provisions from Niagara and sent all we had to Detroit we depend entirely upon being supplied from your post by Battoes to Le Boeuf & Pack Horses there. I beg that you employ every Horse you can procure & all those returning to carry up flour & if there are nails for the new Battoes to send them with all possible dispatch as we can do nothing without them. Endorsed: Heads of my Letter to Major Stewart 3rd Nov. 1760. [A 23-1, p 56] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR I wrote you in my last of our arrival and taking Possession of this Place which I hope did find you at Pittsburgh, tho I see by yours to Major Rogers you had not left Presqu' Isle the 7th of last month, we are obliged to you for dispatching Morris he came here in twenty three days some of the Flour damag'd but the Ammunition safe Capt Waite has brought us only thirty three Barrils of Pork which he says is all Major Walters could spare him, this is a great Relief to us. Major Rogers after sending off all the different Partys has only left me Flour to victual our Party to the seventeenth Inclusive, thirty Barrils of Pork & eleven Bullocks.



Page 47


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

47

Mr. Navarre who is a most excellent man has undertaken to furnish us with twenty thousand weight of flour at least one hundred Bushels of Peas as much Indian Corn as we shall want we are to pay the same the King of France used to doe, which comes to fifty shillings sterling the hundred weight of Flour. The Indians have undertaken to furnish venison of all kinds at moderate Rates as they are scarce of Ammunition, that will last till March, I hope we shall be able to make it out till spring, they say we could. send Batteaux to Presqu' Isle towards the latter end of March if there were Provisions there-It will be necessary to send us a supply of Ammunition from Pittsburgh how soon it can be done-We have only now eight hundred weight of Powder in store after sending off all the Partys. Major Rogers people have great demand for every thing, Indeed they have left me quite bare-The Major is sett out for Michillimakinac to bring away the Garrison, in our situation it was impossible to send a Garrison, if he passes the Bay of Saginaw, before the Frost overtakes her he may get there if not he will be obliged to return. The commandant of Michillimakinac they say is gone with his small Garrison to winter with the Indians for want of Provisions, he only has a few soldiers-Lieut Butler of the Rangers is gone to take off the Garrison of Miamis Oucialanon, as Mr. Butler speaks French and seems very Intelligent, he has got orders to maintain the Post of Miamis if it be possible with a few men during the winter. It is of great importance to this place, it is the other head of the Miamis and from that there is a carrying Place of nine miles into the waters of Ouabache and it would prevent a surprize in the Spring. We have given Mr. Butler a good quantity of Ammunition and some Indian goods. I refer you to Capt. Crochan for our Indian affairs-I shall have a great trouble in that Department. The French have a different manner of treating them from us. The four nations that live in the environs of Detroit are as much under the commandant as the Inhabitants and come for every thing they want. I have told my situation to General Monckton, I have nothing to give them and French left us very little in their Stores only meer trifles indeed they left us five hundred weight of good Powder, which was more than I expected. You should encourage Traders from Pittsburgh as much as possible this winter we cannot persuade the People to go there with their horses, they are only acquainted with travelling in Canoes. The Fort is very large and in good Repair, there are two Bastions towards, the water, and a large fast Bastion towards the inland the



Page 48


48

BOUQUET PAPERS.

point of the Bastion is a Cavalier of wood on which there are mounted the three pounders and three small mortars, or cochons. The Pallisadoes are in good order. There is a Scaffolding round the whole which is only floored towards the Land for want of Plank, it is by way of a Blanket. There are seventy or eighty houses in the fort laid out in regular streets, the Country is inhabited ten miles at each side of the river, and is a most beautiful country. The River is here about nine hundred yards over, and very deep, and every thing in great Plenty before this last year. They have granted every thing I have desired of them in Quartering our Troops I have put them on the same footing as in our Collonies. I must tell you I have not had one complaint against our Soldiers since we have been here-noe Rum that is the Reason. There are Salt Pitts here if we had Kettles we could make as much as would serve this Garrison, and the upper Posts with very little Trouble. A small Post at the little Lake or Sandusky would be of great use for the communication with Pittsburgh-it is only thirty Leagues from this, and they can goe from this to that all the winter; but to goe round by land the one end of the Lake is very bad road for horses in winter. It will be necessary to send an express with my Letters to General Monckton, and if he is gone on any other service to send in to General Amherst, if you could send us any Bullocks but I am affraid it is too late in the season, but the Ammunition is absolutely necessary and next to that goods for the Indians. I shall be glad to hear from you how soon it is possible, I shall be able to give more Intelligence about the country in a short time. I have not had time to converse with the Inhabitants M. C. Commandant est une personne de consequence plus quo un de nos gouverneur's de Province. Pray how doe like Mr. Bellestre he was very sorry to leave this place, I doe not wonder of it. I beg you would remember us. I am with the greatest Respect Your most obedient humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL Detroit



Page 49


THOMAS COLHOON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

49

December 11th 1760. We shall want our pay duely as our money goes here, and the people are pleased with it. Endorsed: Letter from Captain Donald Campbell Dated Detroit the 11th Decr 1760. Received by Mr. Croghan the 8th Jany, 1761. [A 15, p 342J THOMAS COLHOON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR I examined the contents of your Instructions and am persuaded it will not be in my power to perform them, as I am told it is impossible to proceed to Detroit with any carriage at this season and am likewise Informed if I stop at Sandusqua it will not be in my Power to make the Indians sensible of my Instructions, & that if I refuse to sell to them they will take my goods from me by force and pay for them what their Pleasure. so as it is my desire to obey your orders Punctually I think it must be imprudent to Ingage in any thing that I cannot expect to perform. But if your Honours please to consider that I have been at a considerable expence (since you gave me leave) in Preparing for the Journey, and will allow me Liberty to trade under any other Reasonable Restrictions that may be thought necessary to lay upon me. Before I set out I will carefully observe them & it will much oblige sir Your very humble Servant FORT PITT THOMAS COLHOON December 22d 1760 To Col: Henry Bouquet Esq. Endorsed: Mr. Colhoon's answer to the Permit. [A 15, p 364] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR I wrote you very fully by Cap. Cochran, I shall refer you to Major Rogers, and Mr. Braeme who will give you a satisfactory account of everything. I hope to be able to support the Detach' tolerably well this winter by Mr. Navarre's assistance, who does all in his Power to serve us, we must make the best of it, I thought of sending back part of the Detachment to Fort Pitt but for several reasons I have dropt that opinion. 7



Page 50


50

BOUQUET PAPERS.

The Indians here are in great distress for want of Ammunition. I have had two of the Tribes that depend on Michillimakinac that come at a great distance-they were absolutely starving, as their whole subsistence depends on it. I was obliged to give them what I could spare. I expect them from all quarters (God knows what I shall doe to satisfy theni) all that you can doe for me this winter is to send me as much ammunition as can be spared. Capt. Cochran knows how far it is practicable, and a little Salt if it can be done. I am with the greatest respect your most "obedient humble servant DONALD CAMPBELL. P. S. I beg I may hear from you as soon as possible. I have enclosed two returns, if yqu think it is proper to send one of them to the general. Endorsed: Letter from Capt Cambell Decr. 23d 1760. [A 15, p 367] T. D. HAMBACK TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. LANCASTER Jan. 1st 1761. HONOURED SIR The small encouragement I got from Mr. De Staas as if your Honour would favour me with your Protection in carrying on a Trade to Fort Detroit, I make bold to entreat your attention and advice; Mr. De Staas was seemingly inclined to join with me but not to take any of the Troubles to go there in Person, and as it would be a little to weighty for me, to undertake it alone, I would willingly joyn with a young man whose name is Van Der Velder, keeping actually a large store in this Place, and who not only is in good credit in Philadelphia but has a perfect knowledge of Trading; Therefore if your Honour would be pleased to have so much confidence in my good behaviour, as to recommend me to some Merchant in Philadelphia to intrust me with goods with credit for six months; But the said my intended Partner, dont think it would be worth the Expences without taking a large Quantity, he is intended to lay out five hundred Pounds for his Part all in goods, without reckoning the Expenses, we will be put to in, Buying Storres as we were intended to have such goods as we could carry on six Horses, but as most of the Payment of the said goods will consist in Furrs, the charge of which would load more



Page 51


WILLIAM WALTERS TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

51

than twelve we believe that we may either hire or purge so many horses from the Indians as to carry our Furs to Pittsburgh, from whence we easily may convey them further. I beg also of your honour to inform me, whether you dont think it would be safe to go the high way from Pittsburgh without touching at Presque isle and what Goods you Judge would be most agreeable. I most humblybeg your Honor to favour me with a speedy answer, as I judge, the chief would depend of being there early in the Spring as possible, to sell well, as I am of opinion one might double the money one lays out, by the Information I have got if under God's blessings no extraordinary misfortune happens, I am with the greatest submission, Your Honours most humble & most obedient Servant T. D. HAMBACK P. S: Please to Direct The Answer to Mr Barr in Lancaster Endorsed: Letter from Mr Hamback 1st Janry 1761-answered the 22nd and given ~100 currency upon McLaran on His Majesty's Service To Colonel Henry Bouquet at Fort Pitt [A 16, p 1] MAJOR WILLIAM WALTERS TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NIAGARA 3rd January. DEAR COLONEL, 1761. I take this opportunity by Captain Brewer, who arrived at this Fort, 27th December in twenty four days from Detroit, he tells me that the Inhabitants at that place will be able to supply Captain Campbell's Party with flour & that they had when he came from thence nineteen Oxen. On the 10th November I sent by Captain Waites of the Rangers, five Barrels flour & twenty six Barrels of 'Pork so I am in hopes they will make shift for Provisions until the Season will permitt them to send their Batteau here, for a fresh supply. I wrote to you by Ensign Christie the 27th of November and enclosed Letters from SGeneral Monckton which I hope you have received. I acquainted you that I had it not in my Power to comply with General Monckton's orders to send a Captain & Party to Presqu Isle, for want of Batteaux could only send one sub; and thirty men which I hope has got safe, I sent with them eight barrells of flour & Twenty five Barrels of Pork, which I hope will serve them until I can get Batteaux to send Captain Cochran with the Remainder of the Party with a fresh sup

Page 52


52

BOUQUET PAPERS.

ply. Inclosed is a monthly return. Captain Ridge is here and will take the first opportunity to joyn his Battalion. I beg my compliments to the gentlemen with you. I am Dear Colonel Your most obedient Humble Servant WILLM WALTERS Colonel Bouquet Endorsed: Letter from Major Walters 3rd January 1761. [A 16, p 3] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. SIR The evening of the 28th Inst I received By Major Rogers a Letter of the 18th October & the 31st the other of the 19th by Mr Croghan. The Shipwrights arrived the 29th all the Boats were repaired and they are building Six new ones for which I hope they will remain, those they have brought on the 30th are only for Whalers and too small for Batteaux. The 2nd Inst Capt. Campbell arrived with his Detachment and Stores. The next day they embarked one Detachment 40 Rangers & 15 R. A. going by Land with 42 head of cattle along the Lake Ottawa by two Batteaux to ferry the men over the River and Creek. The French (sic) and to drive in 12 or 14 days from Detroit that way at this season & I hope they will go safe All the provisions we had here have been put on board. It makes about two months provision for the whole five Battoes besides with Rangers went the 31st October to Niagara to take in a Load of Provisions chiefly pork & (go to Detroit by the Nh Shore, much the better way. If they arrive safe they will carry about three months Provisions for the R. A. and as Capt Camaho & the guides assure us that there is a sufficient quantity of flour at Detroit for the consumption of that Garrison I make no manner of doubt that they will not want-Major Rogers will send immediately back some Battoes to Niagara and this Place with some Canadians to fetch another Load. I have sent down upwards of 100 Pensilvanians to clear French Creek and raft down all the planks near Le Boeuf and desired Mr Bassett who goes to Venango to give them proper directions. I keep only 25 men at Le Boeuf & as many here as will man the



Page 53


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON.

53

six new Battoes to make a trip to Niagara and leave about twenty here. The moment I received your Letter from Major Walters I forwarded it by a whale boat & desired him to send as much Provision as he possibly could besides what his Detatchment could carry. Tho I fear he has no Batteau or necessarys to repair the old ones and I have nothing to give. Never people have met with more disagreeables & misfortunes than we have had here. From the 1st of October the wind has blown withopt Interruption & continues still from the s. w. and almost every day heavy squalls and storms. One of our large Battoes was staved and two of the Rangers with the loss of 33 Barrills of Provisions the Rest arrived in a most shattered condition & the 24h the sloop after having been twice near this Post was blown off and I fear is either perished or has been put "back to Niagara. I have sent three times in quest of her, without,success, she has a Boat with her and eighty Barrils of Provisions. With the assistance of the Canadians and a Bark Major Rogers may get before the post to Michillimackinac. That Post is 120 Leagues from Detroit. The Bay another Post is 80 Leagues further to the north side of Lake Michigan. St Joseph is 80 Leagues by Land from Detroit what they call (illegible) which I take to be miun (illegible) is much further again. Ammunition being very scarce at Detroit and the best commodity to procure meat from the Savages I have given to Major Rogers all we had here (amounting to 6 quarter Casks 8 Barrils kept only a compleat Box of Cartridge) Considering the advanced season & difficulty of getting Provision up I think 80 nien enough to garrison this Post and Le Point. I don't mention those Forts upon the Lakes Huron & Superior and others at several hundred miles to the west of it upon the water which falls in Hudson's Bay as it would take near two years to see them all. Propose to drive Cattle from Pittsburg to Detroit, from Pittsburg to the mouth of Beaver Creek 30 miles 'To the Salt Licks (by the shortest way) 50 " To Cayugau 40 " To Sandusky 30 " "To Detroit



Page 54


BOUQUET PAPERS.

~300 St. GENTLEMEN At thirty days sight Please to Pay I. W. E. or his order this my first exchange (Second, Third & Fourth unpaid) for three hundred Pounds sterling value received and with or without further advice Place it to account of gentlemen Your obt. Servant To Messrs. (no sig) [A 8, p. 221] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. FORT PITT 14th January 1761 SIR I am to acknowledge your Letter of the 25th December. In consequence of which I have wrote to the commanding officer of the R. W. Volunteers, to desire he would (if he had no orders from you to the contrary) relieve the Posts at Juniatta, Bedford, Stoney Creek & Ligonier with the same number of officers & men from his corps as he would find at those Posts and order the R. Am. to return to this Fort & the Virginians to march to Winchester. Captain Mather Lieut Bailie & 40 R. F. of the R. A. R. are to march the 17th to relieve Venango, and Lieut Jay and 1 Serjt 1 Dr & 16 Private to relieve Le Boeuf. The Hire of Pack Horses being very expensive I have bought sixteen Horses & Saddles the whole for ~70 currency which is not much above what the Hire would cost for the Ship, they are to carry flour from Venango to Le Boeuf and secure the subsistence of that Post. I had this day a Letter from Presqu' Isle where all is well & the last Bullocks arrived. There is an abundance of meat everywhere and with the supplys I am now able to force to Le Boeuf all will be right again. As soon as the first Division of Vaughan's appear I shall march down the Virginians who will garrison Fort Burd & Cumberland. Mr. Vaughan is arrived & left Detroit well supplied till the Spring, when they must have meat & flour, as they have a different number of Battoes if Niagara can supply them, they can do well till the Vessel is built. As soon as I can get a few strong Horses I will send some ammunition to Detroit. The consumption they have already made, of it is far beyond my expectation. But the Rangers are a destructive People.



Page 55


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON.

55

I give Z100 to Capt Mather to pay the Venaison Return by the Indians in the Mingo Stores at Venango with Liberty to raise the price if necessary tho' the Hunting Season is now over; as the French make everywhere use of Sleighs in the woods, I have recommended to try that'method which as you observe may be of great service. It is with difficulty that we can get money here. If a proper opportunity should offer, It would be necessary to send some up. I enclose you the list of Naval Stores &c wanted for the construction of a deck'd vessel on Lake Erie if they cannot be had at Oswego any Ship builder at New York, or Philadelphia can provide them. Capt. Claphan, & Aflec are returned from Detroit. The men who deserted from them after their misfortune robbed them of every thing & sold to the Indians all the Barrills of Provisions they had found; The Flat is not much hurt & Capt White of the Rangers took back to Niagara the little Boat left with her. One half of the officers & men of this Garrison are seized with an Epidemical cold, with an appearance of Pleurisy but it does not prove dangerous. The weather has been extremely cold with sudden variations, probably the cause of this general distemper. I have the honour to be with much respect Sir Your most obedient & most humble Servant HENRY BOUQUET. P. S. It was with great reluctance I discharged the men whose time was expired after what I wrote to you about it. But I was obliged to do it ~for several reasons, most of them had a Right the year before & I had prevailed on them to make the last campaign upon giving them Certificates under my Hand that they should have their Discharges. They knew that those of the 4th Battn had got them and the unhappy divisions and animosities I found here made it impossible for me to keep them any longer. If I have done wrong I hope Sir you'll forgive me as I have acted to the best of my judgement. You will please to remember that you authorized me when I marched to Presqu' Isle to promise in your name that the men who were intitled to their discharge should have it after the Campaign and I wish those at Niagara who are in that case, could be discharged, to keep up the confidence the men always had in me. Before I received your Letter I had signed a Discharge from



Page 56


56

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Kuhn and desired Bentick to enclose it with his Pay to Major Gate. I am very sorry of what happened to him & of that multiplicity of punishments inflicted as I hear unknown to you during the Campaign which would ruin any regiment since I joined I have not been under the necessity of punishing any one man. H. BOUQUET. I must beg leave to trouble you with some Regimental Affairs. Lieut Ralph's father died two years ago and the guardians of the three children (two of which are under age) give him no account of the Estate, which obliges him to go to England to settle with them and as he has purchased his Lieutency, he writes for me to obtain leave for him to sell out. But as he is very useful to the Battn for Recruiting If it was possible to obtain leave for him to go home without resigning I would be glad to keep him as he likes the service and would not quit on any account if he was not forced to do it. Lieut Bassett Engineer, would also sell his Lieutcy, if he could obtain leave as he does no duty in the Battn. I wish he could be indulged in it. In case his request could be granted I beg you would be so good as forward the form of a Resignation which I have not here. To Brigadier General Monckton 14th Jany 1761 [A 8, p 232] GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK Jany ye 26th 1761. Sm On the 18th I was favoured with your Letter of the 20th & 23d Decr. and by the same conveyance with one of the 2d Decr. from Capt. Campbell, much to the same purport as that which you were so good as to send me a copy of. I am glad to find that they got so well there & that there is little likelyhood of their being in want before you will be able to supply them, which if the Canadians you mention should come may be easily done by sending some Hogs. The sooner the Ship Carpenters can get to work to make Battoes & prepare Timber for the vessell the better, that we may forward to Detroit a supply of what they may want as soon as the Weather will permit. All the Battoes at Pittsburgh ought to be put in thorough repair, that they may be ready for the River as soon as the Weather breaks



Page 57


GEN. ROBERT MONOKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

57

up, that we may lay in Provisions & Stores at Venango & Le Boeuf -Early in the year-And could the Road between le Boeuf & Presqu' Isle be made passable for a waggon everything would be made easy. But this I must leave to you, as you are the best Judge how far it is practicable. As by your Letter & returns I suppose the command at Presqu' Isle now to consist of about 35 men, Le Boeuf 20 & Venango 40. I think you had best as soon as you think you can supply them with Provisions, re-inforce them the better to enable them to forward the Provisions and Stores. I don't stop Lieut Col. Vaughan's Regt as it will be necessary that you send off the Virginians by Detachments as Vaughan's get up. Major Gates writes to Hoops to send up some Coopers & you will be so good as to immediately employ those you have, in making Bbls for the Beef Pork & Flower. And I have ordered Capt. Curry to send up all the bags on the communication that the best may be picked out & clean'd for the flower now in Bulk to be put and kept in. A way I am told they used when we had Minorca & which kept it better than any other; by frequently moving the Bags & venting the outside with a Stick. As every precaution was taken'for making the Bulk Store good & tight and as Mr. Hoops and his commissary's seemed satisfy'd with it. You will be so good as make his People doo their part in turning & moving it that it may not spoil. As, after the care that was taken, I cannot but think' that it will be owing to their neglect if it should be damaged. I observe in your last Return some men absent without leave, pray let that be explained and the Returns of the Corps be made separate viz. Royal Americans, Virginians that may remain at the different Posts, Welsh Volunteers that may join you. And of the Artillery, I am much plagued about the Virginia contracts for Flower, be so good as to give me what Information you can on that head. I have ordered the contractors to direct their Commissary's to receive all that is fit to be given to the troops. Stoddards accts were so complicated that I could not make anything of them. The French Prisoners are not yet arrived so that I have no Letters from Rogers. Some Ammunition ought to be forwarded to the Upper Posts, for Detroit; and with that they can get meat from the Indians. In regard to your Cloathing I will take care that it shall be forwarded when we know a little how things are to go. Hubert is to succeed in Ourry's purchase it was agreed before I got your Letter. I have put a stop to the Serjt preferement recommended by Major Walters I am surprised the Major should take such a step without first consulting you. As to the men that left Mr. Irwin going to 8



Page 58


BOUQUET PAPERS.

Niagara I should think they had best get a good flogging for leaving their command & let them go about their business. The man you mention supposed to be of my Regiment you will please to send down by any opportunity if it should be proved that he is such. I write Col. Darby about him desiring him to write to you what he knows of him. We have no news here of any kind but what you will see in the Publick Prints. I shall doo myself the Pleasure of writing to you soon. I am with much truth & esteem Sir your obt hmble Sevt ROBT. MONCKTON P. S. Jany ye 30th I inclose you a Letter received for you from Major Walters. He writes me that Captain Brewer arrived there the 27th December with 30 men from Detroit in 24 days. Capt Waite is also arrived here. [A 8, p 237.] GEO. CROGHAN TO CAPT. WILLIAM TRENT AND MR. ALEXANDER TOWERY. FORT PITT February the 5th GENTLEMEN, 1761 As you have obtained Liberty from Colonel Bouquet, the commanding officer here to transport a quantity of Indian Goods, and other wares, to Sanduskee and Fort De Troit, for sale to the Indians and Inhabitants of that place, and as I have settled the prices with you of every kind of goods, as appears on the other side, a copy of which I enclose Captain Campbell, commanding officer at Fort Detroit, I hope you will be careful to dispose of your goods at the prices agreed upon, and be careful to cultivate a good understanding with the Indians of the different Nations, by doing them strict Justice in the course of your Trade with them, and not run into the Common Practice of trusting the Indians which always occasions disputes, which are very prejudicial to His Majesty's Indian Interest. As soon as you arrive at Detroit you will wait on Captain Campbell, and shew him your Invoices, and the prices you are to sell at, who will acquaint the



Page 59


LIST OF PRICES FOR INDIAN GOODS.

59

Indians thereof by His Interpreters and direct you where to open your store & how to conduct yourselves for the Good of His Majesty's Service. GEO. CROGHAN Deputy Agent. To Capt. William Trent and Mr. Alexander Towery Feby 5th 1761. [A 16, p 29] SLIST OF PRICES FOR INDIAN GOODS. An Account of the Prices of goods as agreed upon to be sold to the Indians at Sanduskie

Strouds ----------- Match Coats------- Blankets----------- 1 Pint Powder----- 4 Bars Lead------- 1 Plain Shirt------ 1 Rufled do------- 1 Pr Stocking100 Wampum------ 2 Cuttcaus -------- 6 Fathem Gartering 2 Fathem Ribbon - 1 lb Vermillion...--- 4 Small Knives ---- 1 Fathem Callicoe_

4 3 4 1 1 2 4 1 1 1 1 1 6 1 3

Bucks Bucks ditto ditto ditto ditto ditto ditto ditto ditto ditto ditto ditto -------- ditto ditto

1 Fall Buck a Buok 2 Does a Buck 2 Spring Bucks a Buck 1 Large Buck Beaver a Buck 2 Doe Beavers a Buck 6 Racoons a Buck 4 Foxes a Buck 2 Fishes a Buck 2 Otters a Buck 3 Summer Bucks for 2 Bucks 3 Summer does for a Buck Parchment and Drest Leather To be taken as Summer Skins Doe

1 Large Flag Handkerchief I Buck 1 1 Fathem Callimancoe 2 Bucks Kettles (Brass) from 1 to 10 Bucks Tin Kettles from 1 Doe to 3 Bucks Arm Bands-Half Moons 1 Wrist Bands-Gorgets Hair Plates-Trinkets These w Broaches "of silver, Hair Bobs " weight & Ear Bobs Crosses 1 Worsted Cap single 1 doe 1 Double ditto 1 Buck Embossed Flannel 2 Bucks a fathim

ith all other kinds ware, according to fashion.



Page 60


60

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Looking Glasses, Flowered According to their size Ribbon Trunks Thread & goodness & fineness Endorsed: Prices fixed by Mr. Croghan for Indian goods at Detroit. [A 16, p 30] J. P. DE HAAS TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. PHILADELPHIA Feby 9th 1761 SIR I would willingly have improved of the kindness you was pleased some time ago to favour me with by encouraging me to carry on a trade to Fort Detroit, but coming down I have found so much goods on my hands that I have not disposed of yet, and who are not suitable for that purpose, I find myself not able to execute my plan for this present time, but to reap -notwithstanding some benefit from your Friendship. I recommend my friend Mr. Van Hambach into your protection, who is going up there, as you will see by his Letter, all the favour you can and may show to my Friend, on that occasion shall be acknowledged as done to myself, and I flatter myself you will he pleased to grant still a part of your Friendship and favour to Sir your most humble & most obedient Servant J. P. DE HAAS Endorsed: Letter from Mr. De Haas 9th Febry. 1761. [A 16, p 32.] GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK Feby, ye 12th SIR. 1761. Since sealing my letter of this morning I am favour'd with yours of the 26th Jany. with the Returns &c. And am glad to hear that Col. Vaughans are got up & the Virginians march'd. As to'the four Pennsylvanians I think they had best get a good flogging. As that is the most a Genl. Court Martial would give them. I hope Mr Bellestre's soldier may find the guns. Many have pretended to know where they are, but they have not yet been found. As to the men you have discharged-there is nothing wrong in it,



Page 61


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTOIET.

63

the Genl. would have been glad to have had them detained a iNital, longer;- But when I told him in regard to your promise to them. And my own-he was very well satisfied-and in regard to the others, I shall (as I wrote in my letter of this morning) likewise ask his leave for you to Discharge them. You will doo well to give ammunition to any Indians-Croghan can be certain of going against the CherokeesAnd I know of no objection to the Traders going to the Detroit, so as they conform themselves to the necessary Rules & Restrictions I am glad your sick recover a little work in the Ditch when the weather will permit, will doo the men good. * Praying compliments to the gentlemen with you and believe with much truth & esteem Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant ROBT MONOKTON Letters from General Monckton N. York February 12th 1761. Received by Mr Hoops March 11th 1761. [A 8, p 248] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. FORT PITT 24th February 1761 SIR I have the honour to inclose you the Monthly Returns of this Post. The Garrisons of Venango & Le Boeuf are relieved and all the Virginians gone down. The Detachment R. A. was 22' days on their march to Le Boeuf & had several soldiers frost bit. They have now flour & salt to the beginning of April & before that time they can be supplied by water. The 24th January all was well at Presqu' Isle I have sent twelve Kegs of Powder to Detroit & two Traders with a Cargo of Indian goods. Mr. Artel is at last arrived from the Shawanese Town with six of his men only: The whole was 18. Some were left sick, others deserted upon the march-They are all militia & Inhabitants of Canada, Mr Artel being sick they cannot yet be sent down. Lieut Butler of the Rangers keeps the Post at the Miamis where he has Provisions till the Spring he has sent here a French Trader for goods, the Savages in those Parts being all naked & in want of everything, I prevailed upon



Page 62


F BOUQUET PAPERS..nt & some other Traders to trust him with some goods and he will set out in a few days. The enclosed letter is a Petition from Mr Baby a French Trader come from Detroit. He will not take the Oath of Allegiance & desires Leave to go back to Detroit, Michillimackina & Montreal to Recover his Debts &c & pass to France. As he is of a family noted for their Influence among the Indians I cannot let him go from hence till you will please to give your orders thereupon. The frost has done some damage to the Sod Works which are now repairing. As everything concerning the advanced Posts is now settled, I would be much obliged to you, Sir, to permit me to go for a few days to Philad" for my private affairs, I would not trouble you on that account if it was not of great consequence to me. I have the honour to be with great respect Your most obedient & To most Humble Servant General Monckton HENRY BOUQUET 24th February 1760 [A 8, p 250] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR I have been in hopes of hearing from you some time past, which prevented me sending this express sooner. As I had an opportunity to write General Amherst twice by Niagara, You may believe I am impatient to Receive further Instructions from the General, as several Things have happened that General Monckton could not have foreseen. You see by the Inclosed Returns the healthy state of this garrison. The season has been very favorable to us for venison, the Inhabitants continue to supply us with flour, and Indian corn and doe all I could desire of them for the service; I hope to be able to support the Troops, without medling with their cattel, which gives them great pleasure, indeed they seem at present quite happy under our Government, I have had but one complaint of our soldiers since we have been here, I attribute that to the want of Rum. We shall be in great need of our cloathing before it can be sent to us; I do not know if we can trust money by the Indians, I believe we can make a shift without till a better opportunity offers.



Page 63


LIEUT. JAMES MC DONALD TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

63

It will be proper to send us some drugs from the General Hospital, how soon it will be possible, I could not refuse, the Inhabitants the Doctors Assistance, who were destitute of every help of that kind; as to the Indians I have had the good luck to please them tho' I have little to give and indeed no orders about them. Our Ammunition holds out pretty well-I am certainly informed that the Shawanese continue to do us all the harm they can It is by them, the Commandant of the Illinois knows all that is done at Fort Pitt, they are invited to retire to the Illinois when there is part of their nation settled. Pource que nous regarde en particulier, we have passed a tolerable good Winter. The Women surpasses our expectations, like the rest of America the men very Independent. Il ya assemblie toutes les dimanches au soir chez monsieur Le Corn-' mandant, on y se trouvent une Vightaine des Personnes des deux sexes you have no such doings at Fort Pitt. Be pleased to send my Letter to General Amherst as soon as possible, there is something in it, that is necessary he should know soon. Pxay send us all the new Papers you can muster up tho' never so old, there is now five months since we know any thing of the World. I am with the greatest respect Your most obedient Humble Servant DETROIT DONALD CAMPBELL 10th March 1761 I beg the favour you would send some writing Paper by the Express Endorsed: Letter from Captain Campbell Detroit 10th March 1761 [A 16, p 72] LIEUT. JAMES MC DONALD TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT DETROIT, 10th March 1761 SIR I would have done myself the honour of writing you & Major Rogers, but as Capt Campbell wrote you at large did not choose to trouble you then particularly as I wrote Mr. Benthwick a very long Letter, with the best accounts I could give of this place, which Letter I dare say he would show you. As you are always doing good offices, I hope you'll procure a Purchase for me, if it should offer, either in the Battalion or any other Regiment, I left money for that purpose with Captain Barnsley, and hope my being at such a distance will be no Impediment to my Promotion.



Page 64


64

BOUQUET PAPERS.

I wrote Colonel Grant upon this subject, and am very certain he will do all he can for me. The Inhabitants here seem very well pleased with their change, and even acknowledge that the capitulation was more favourable than they expected it would have been. They are very well satisfied with Capt. Campbell but say in case more troops should be ordered here nothing could make them happier than being under your command, I have often heard them- speak of you & that with the greatest Regard. I assure you they make a handsome appearance at the Commandants' every Sunday night where they come to play at cards, & continue till twelve o'clock at night. In short they pay more respect to the Governor here, than is done in any other of our Colonies. I have the Honour to be Sir Your most obedient & faithful Servant JAMES McDONALD Endorsed: Fort Detroit 10th Mlarch 1761 Letter from Lt. McDonald To Colonel Henry Bouquet of the First Battalion of the Royal American Regiment at Fort Pitt. [A 16, p 74] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. FORT PITT SIR 18th March 1761 The llth Instant, I had the honour of your Letters of the 26th Jany & 12th Feby. by Mr. Hoops come to this Post with Mr. Read to take an actual survey of the Provisions in Store, which has been done agreeable to your orders. I received yesternay by the Express Boyle your letter of the 27th February, in consequence of which Col. Vaughan's Detatchment is to march to morrow for Philada. As they have no men detached beyond this I have only to relieve Bushy Run, Ligonier and Stoney Creek1 Serjeant & 6 Privates at Bushy Run. Lieut Blaine 1 Serjt & 1 Corp & 18 at Ligonier. 1 Serjt & 6 at Stoney Creek. Coll Vaughan will leave 1 off & 20 at Bedford & 1 Corp & 6 at Juniatta.



Page 65


GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

65

Having received a few days ago from Nigr 34 fat oxen weighing upwards of" 450 lb each. I send this day twenty five of them to Detroit with a Serjeant & ten more of the R. A. & two Indians. This is the last supply I shall be able to forward to Capt. Cambell till we are reinforced & I advise him' to send to Niagara for Provisions to engage some Canadians to come here for Cattle giving me timely notice of it to have them ready. Being a little hurried at present by the march of the R. Welsh & the alterations occasioned thereby I beg leave to defer till to morrow to answer your former Letters, giving this to Colonel Vaughan who setts off to day. I shall only inclose you a court of Inquiry upon Mr. Babby and two Traders at this place and as it contains all the circumstances of the Facts I will not inlarge upon it. But think necessary to inform you that most of the Traders here take all possible methods to evade the Orders given for the Proper Regulation of the Trade & that an example appears necessary to convince them of their dependency. The case of Thomson's Clerk is more open to Indulgence than Blain's who disobey'd positive orders. The goods seized shall remain in the King's store till you will please to dispose of them. I wrote distressed for hay two months ago to Mr. Sinclair for garden seeds for all the Posts; But have received none yet. I am with Profound Respect (no signature) Letter to General Monckton 18th March 1761 by Col. Vaughan [A 8, p 255] GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. PHILADELPHIA SIR April ye 6th 1761 I am Just favour'd with yours of the 28th March, and have forwarded the Inclosed to the General I am glad to find that the Captain Campbell's party continues so Healthy and that everything is so well there. Pray send the Inclosed Letter to him by the first opportunity. Notwithstanding the Battoes we have, it will be necessary to build some good ones at Detroit, you will therefore order the ship Carpenters there for that purpose-Pray let me have a state of the King's Troops & Carriages at Fort Pitt. 9



Page 66


66

BOUQUET PAPERS.

The only Remedy for the Rum Sellers is what I mention'd in my letter of yesterday. Pray my compliments to your Garrison & Believe me with much Esteem Sir Your obedient humble Servant ROBT. MONCKTON. P. S. Colonel Vaughan is very desirous of getting your Serjt Major John Durant for his Adjt. If you think as I do, that it will be for his advantage, you had best let him have him. In the Assembly yesterday it was fifteen to twelve against furnishing any more men for His Majesty's Service. R. M. Colonel Bouquet. General Monckton April the 6th 1761 [A 8, p 264] COLONEL HENRY BOUQUET TO MAJOR WILLIAM WALTERS. FORT PITT the 25th April 1761 DEAR MAJOR The Detachment at Detroit and Presqu' Isle are ordered to send to Niagara for their Provisions as we cannot supply them from hence, I hope you have got now some Batteaux to assist them, particularly Presqu' Isle, who have scarce men enough to work their Batteaux. I am Dear Major Your most obedient "Humble Servant Major Walters H. B. Endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Major Walters dated the 25th April 1761. [A 16, p 146] LETTER FROM CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL SIR I was favoured with yours by Lowry the Trader who came here the 13th of April, and delivered the twelve Kegs of Powder safe, which



Page 67


LETTER FROM CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL.

67

makes only about seven hundred weight. The Serpant arrived here the 20th brought the five and Twenty Bullocks safe but very low, and not fit for some time, he lost three of the Horses, the weather was.very bad, he suffered much, he has done his duty very well and deserves to be taken notice off, I was much surprised the Serpant had no Letters for me, and more so wh n my Express Returned a few days afterwards without any. I received yours by Callender the 14th and Baird only arrived a few days ago. I can never too much acknowledge your attention to the support of this Post, you have sent me what was most wanted; I am obliged to give a good deal of Powder of late to the Indians. The nations when they come in from their Hunting, wait on The Commandant, as it was the custom, it would not be prudent in me to deviate from it in my present situation, to give them a present of ammunition, and Provisions; I assure you I am muchi put to it how to behave in Indian affairs, as I have no orders on that Head I cannot help giving them some Provisions. Major Walters wrote me he could send me no assistance for want of Batteaux, I with great difficulty Riged out six Batteaux, being in want.of all materials, I sent off Lieut Lesslye, the 18th of April, he went by Presque Isle, and stayed six Days at the carrying Place for want of Provisions, and returned here the 11th of May with one Hundred Barrels, mostly Pork, and 13 Barrels, of Pork and Beef, he sent back from Presque Isle, in a small Batteaux. The French are surprized at the Expedition, they never heard of the like in this Lake. I sent twenty men with Mr. Lesslye, and twenty Canadians, I took it upon me to keep the Sergeants Command, till Lieut Lesslyes Return, as I had not then enough to take the duty in this large Fort, and a great many Indians, assembled here at that time. I now send Ensign Gorrel with five large Batteaux, twelve men and twenty three Canadians, he goes by Presque Isle, I have sent the Sergeant with him, I keep one Smith of my company, who has sore legs and not fit for the Journey, that compleats my Detachment, I have likewise sent twelve Prisoners returned from the Indians, they all belong to Pensilvania and, Virginia. I had a Letter from General Monckton, he mentions very little of Business, that this place is to be supplied from Niagara. I did not know that he still commanded to the northward As he desires me in his Instructions to make all Reports of all occurrences to General Amherst, which I have continued to do. Tho I have manadged things with the greatest economy possible, I am affraid they will find fault with too much Provisions given to the



Page 68


68

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Indians, tho' in our present situation there was no help for it, I have done what I thought was best for the service. I wish the Indian Trade was put on good footing, they complain of our prices and that we do not take all their Pelletri6s from them. They all go to Niagara, where there is no controul on selling Rum, certainly Sir William Johnstone does not know the bad use that is made of his Permitts to sell Rum. The Indians go to Niagara and buy Rum and neglect to purchase Ammunition for their subsistence and then become a Burthen on the Officer that commands here, I am resolved to allow no Rum to be sold here to Indians. There is a Quantity come from Niagara, and more on the way. I have wrote General Amherst on this subject. You mention my sending Canadians from this to bring Bullocks. I do not think they are good people for anything of that kind, they are only fit for the Lakes. I proposed them Mr. Hoops scheme, but I find it will not do. There are a good many Traders here, and more on the way; you may depend Sir on any assistance I can give to persons recommended by you; I have sent three Batteaux to Mr. Callender, and Hambach to bring their goods from Sandusky, they are Batteaux I will not fit out for Niagara, Michilimakinac will be an outlett for them. I shall begin to prepare Timber for Ship Carpenters, that are coming here: There is no Pine nearer than 20 Leagues: The People here know nothing of making Pitch, the French never build any Batteaux here. I find there are great Promotions in the Army-and I think our Battalion has its share of it. I hope it will be your turn soon; you have got several steps lately. I am sorry for Bentricks change but I imagine the General means to do something better for him. Mr. Antony desires the favour of you to be put on the Returns as a Volunteer, if it can be done, it would oblige me as I think he deserves any favour of that kind that can be done for him. I am with the greatest Respect your most obedient Humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL. DETROIT May 21st 1761 I shall endeavour to get money from the Indians in time to come. [A 16, p 194]



Page 69


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTDN,

69

COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. FORT PITT S22nd May 1761 SSIR Agreeable to your orders of the first May Received here the 20th. Captain Barnsley will repair to New York to assist at the Settlement of Colonel Youngs accounts. The general orders relating to the medals given to the faithful Indians are given in publick orders & the Indians in this Department shall be informed thereof occasionally. Lieut Zwinglins with an Ensign anAd thirty one Rank & File arrived here the 18th the rest of that Company (de Haas) was left behind; I encamped them over the Monongohela, to be nearer their work at the saw mills Lime Kiln & cutting wood for the Bricks. They have no Tents and say that the new ones in Store at Bedford are destroyed by the Rats. I write to Captain Ourry to have as many patched as will serve the Provincial Troops Raised. Captain Cochrane informs me that he left Niagara the 18th April and was detained several days by the Ice. The Battoe sent from Presqu' Isle in the beginning of that -Month, could not get further than half way, Ensign Chirstie having sent to Detroit all his flour and some Beef was supplied from Le Boeuf. He is gone to Niagara and Lieut Dow is expected at Ptesqu' Isle with Provisions and the rest of the Detachment you had ordered. As every thing is quiet on these Posts and the greatest part of the Indians moving down the Ohio, I suppose that after the Magazines are formed for one year, the Garrisons at Presqu' Isle and Venango might be diminished. Lieut Baillie being sick at Venango I have sent Lieut Carre to relieve him. I have brought down the cost of carriage to that post to fifteen shillings per Barrell weighing about 250 lb and fixed at two shillings the long hundred from Redstone Creek here. I hope by the beginning of July to have one year's provisions up for the actual garrisons of Venango and Le Boeuf sending some sheep or light Cattle when we have any to spare-and put an end to all expences for those Posts this year. A few days ago the Shawanese took by force fifteen Horses of Welsh going to Detroit and obliged the Drivers to swim them over the River as they wvere only five Indians Welsh has sent nine of his men in pursuit of them. I do not know his success.



Page 70


70

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Mr. Croghan will inform you of the cause of Mr. Babby's stay here, the Doctor thinks we will in a short time be able to go down. I am with great respect Sir your most obedient & most humble Servant (no signature) General Monckton. Copy of a letter to General Monckton 22d May 1761. [A 8, p 283] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR I wrote you by Ensign Gorrel who carried the Sergeants Party and the Indian Prisoner to Presque Isle. I took it upon me to keep the Serjeants Party till Lieut Lesslye's return from Niagara. I am obliged to mount a strong guard to doe duty in this large Fort, and besides at that time I had some hints given me of the Discontent of the Indians which I am glad to say is turned out to be nothing. I have employed People to prepare timber &c for the carpenters, for making ten Batteaux, which I imagine will be prepared before they can come to this Place. If it had been possible to have them sent by Sanduskay, they would have got much, sooner here. I think that is the best communication with Pittsburgh in the Summer, there is noe Dependance on the Lake in the very best Seasons. I dare say long before this time, every thing is fixed for the Campaign, and the Troops in march to reinforce this Place, and take Possession of the other Posts, we long to know our Fates..The Indians expect Presents from us, I have done every thing in my Power to keep them in temper; I have been obliged to issue them Provisions, and small Presents (tho' without orders) I hope the General will approve of it as the necessity of the Service requires it, on our first taking Possession of this country, and being left here with so small a garrison they were in use to get every thing they wanted from the French, depriving them of all assistance;* might have been attended with fatal consequences; I have prevailed on all the nations to give up their Prisoners, but the Wiandots, they have in somne Respects refused



Page 71


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

71

it; We are not in a condition at present to oblige them to it.. There is a great spirit among the Indian Nations to go against the Cherokees tho' I have no orders for it. I encourage them in it, and supply all the partys that go to war with ammunition; Your supply of ammunition has been of the greatest use to me; I have wrote to Major Walters, for some, I hope he will send it, as the Indians have great demands on me. The most of the Indian Traders are come from Fort Pitt, several of them have brought Rum. I have taken such measures as not to allow any to be sold to the Indians, I hope they will all dispose of their goods when we take possession of the different Posts. The Indians all go to Niagara for the LAKES of Rum, they Provide noe Ammunition, and indeed scarcely cloaths, if there is noe stop put to it it will be troublesome to the officer that commands this Place; Last year there was no harm in allowing as much Rum as they choose to buy, when the Country was in Possession of the French. I think it will be easy to send cattle from Fort Pitt, it will be better to send a party of the Troops with Indian Guides, than to employ Canadians for this. I forgot to mention to you in my last that Lieut Lesslye says the Vessel that was cast away last year on the north side of the Lake might with very little Trouble be made fitt for service. I do not know if they intend any such for the Lake, such a vessel would be of great Service from this to Michillimakinac, as the last is very deep and good navigation; any Batteaux that are built for the Lake, should be made as large as possible. The French Batteaux we have found here, are of a good size. I have been only able to repair five of them for want of Pitch. I am preparing to celebrate the King's Birthday with a Ball to the Ladys, you would be surprised to see them turn out so gay on those occasions. We had much the better of you for Winter Quarters, au moins pour passer le Temps. I hope you will excuse this incorrect Letter, and I am with my compliments to all your Gentlemen. with the greatest respect and esteem Your most obedient Humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL Detroit, June 1st, 1761. Monsieur Bellettre, has desired his friends to send you a present of some furs, they will send you by the first opportunity. Endorsed: Letter from Capt Campbell. Detroit 1st June 1761. [A 16, p 219]



Page 72


72

BOUQUET PAPERS.

CAPT. GAVIN COCHRANE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. PRESQUE ISLE June 6th 1761. DEAR SIR Your Letters of the 21st came here after Serjt Sheylock was too far gone to be overtaken, and the Indian who brought them went back without my knowledge, otherways I would by him have acquainted you of the receipt of yours. the wind springing up contrary for Mr. Gorrell, he returned from the Peninsula, where his Boats lay, and by him I had an opportunity of sending the Dispatches for Niagara; he got set early next morning; You seem to think I shall not remain here, and I learn from Mr. Gorrell, that more Troops are expected at Fort Detroite I should be much obliged to you if you could get me sent there, if it would be my lot to command; It is something of a Publick Station & I should have an opportunity of recommending myself to General Amherst and General Monckton, to whom at present I have the misfortune not to be known: the behaviour of my company would gain me bonour, and that Honour would amply repay me for the trouble I have been at with them; tho' I am not now unpaid having received your obliging Letter; I acquainted the company who are not a little proud of your approbation, it would suit me whose prevailing Passion is a publick spirit, and who despise all selfish cunning, to act for the Honour of my King and County is my sole ambition. I am pretty well qualified as to the language and with a little practice would speak it with ease, and can write it; your kind letter draws upon you this trouble; for tho' I wanted before to have signified this to you, I still delayed doing it, you may easily believe my aversion to speak of myself, when I tell you that tho' I knew General Stanwix had a regard for me, I never could persuade myself to ask one thing of him; had his son who perfectly knew my temper been alive, he would have done it for me. my intimate friend Colnel Oughton it seems does not come over; he too knows me very well, but I have already said too much of myself. Mr. Gorrell tells me that there is neither pitch or Oakum, at Fort Detroite, and by what I understand the Tools for Mr. Rowe were lost in coming up from Venango, I dont know if they will be found; I shall supply Mr Rowe with Tools from this; he tells me that he shall have two Barrels of pitch and about 200wt of oakum remaining after he has done everything here. I shall keep a meer trifle here in case of accidents. Mr Rowe told me everything would be exhausted before he left this, and I was not knowing enough to be able to contradict him, he will be readdy by Tuesday to sett off and shall set off as soon



Page 73


COL..HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON.

73

as ready; Mr Cox goes with him, and I shall not need to send any Body from this. Mr Cox had agreed with Carpenters to pay them for sawing but I would not let him as the boat is for the King's use, and I have promised to pay them; they have sawed 1600 Feet which I am told comes to ~4 but I wont pay them till I hear from you, Pitch Oakum & Nails will be wanted, both here and at Detroite; Mr. Cox tells me there will be opportunities by his Boats to take these things to Detroite, I shall not take flour from Le Boeuf except in cases of necessity, and shall in a few days send Boats to Niagara. Mr. Dow is much obliged to you for the concern you take in him & very happy in thinking he is to go with me to Detroite, Mr. Gorrell having persuaded him we are to be there; tho' I with good reason assured him; I knew nothing of it; he will if he goes, probably learn a little French; I gave him a few Lessons at Niagara but could not get him to apply, he has got too much a habit of idleness which I must endeavour to conquer. I am glad I have got him away from officious adventurers. General Stanwix having got no other Regt surprises me much, the contrary was so confidently reported I am Dear Sir Your obliged & obedt Servant GAVIN COCHRAYrE What you propose about employing Dow to coppy is the best thing he could do, but he will have no pleasure in writing till I get him to improve his hand, and Corpl. Moss can assist him to improve it as he writes well. Endorsed: Letter from Capt. Cochran 6th June 1761 [A 16, p 234] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. FORT PITT 12th June 1761. SIR I had the honour of your letter of the 17th by Lt Mayer at this date no other provincials are arrived than the first 30 mentioned: I expect to morrow about 70 more. The garrison at Ligonier is relieved by 1 Serjt and 12 Pensilvanians Lieut Blane remaining. The Serjeants party sent in march to Detroit with 25 oxen returned yesterday having delivered them safe, the Horses carrying their flour failed and tho' they 10



Page 74


74

BOUQUET PAPERS.

were almost starved they have not killed one Bullock; from Sandusky they found Continual Swamps round the Lake and marched often middle deep in the water; Capt Campbell writes that the Canadians are only fit for the Lake, and not for such service; but they can be sufficiently supplied from Niagara. Captain Campbell complains of the Quantity of Rum sold at that Fort upon Sir William's Permits and of the bad use that (unknown to him) the Traders make of them. The Indians have stole some more Horses of the country people, the bulk of them are not concerned in those Insults comitted by those Vagabonds chiefly Mingoes. Since Mr. Croghan went down I have spoke so seriously to the principal Chiefs about us; that they have once more promised to do their endeavours to suppress it-And engaged positively to deliver in two months our prisoners and the stolen Horses they can get. I could wish that when they go to the Town, they were not made so much of. at least while they detain our prisoners and continue to steal our Horses; as they are very apt to attribute kindness to fear. And I never could get anything of them by soft words; We are upon very good terms at present, and they have thanked me in forme for keeping Rum from them. We have had another Batteau oversett in French Creek & lost some Provisions & the Shipwrights tools which are replaced.I Another large Batteau (with 30 Barrils of Beef for Venango) struck about 40 miles from hence on a log under water in a Rapide, and being carried down with Great Impetuosity by the current fell against a Tree hanging on the River; splitt & oversett, one man was killed by the Tree another drowned; I sent Capt Clapham with a Party to save what Provisions they can they are not come back yet. Those people were expert Batteau men and belonging to the Garrison. Captain Barnsley went down on receiving the first orders but his Bulk does not admit of extraordinary Diligence. I sent to Major Walters a list of fifteen men of his Garrison to be discharged, there are a few more in Capt. Cochrane's company at Presqu' Isle which I shall keep a little longer & only three here the Rest intitled or not, must serve the campaign. The Generals orders concerning Drummers are given out-the Commissions for Capt Lieut Phillips Lieut McDougal and Ensign George Price are arrived, this last settled with Capt Bassett for the ~125 Sterling purchased. As you are pleased to ask my sentiments on the means of suppressing or reducing the pay given here to soldiers for their work I shall observe in general that in England and all other services the soldier is paid when employed in Regular Fortifications like this and though



Page 75


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON.

75

they receive Provisions in this country; Every officer knows that by the difference of prices for necessaries, the whole pay of a soldier is no more than sufficient to keep them in Repair, as they have no opportunity to earn a six pence out of the Service. But as it appears extraordinary that they should be paid at this (sic) only place on this continent. I beg leave, to point out some reasons to Justify that Difference. In 1758 and 1759 this Battalion like the Rest of the Army received only a Gill of Rum per day for each man's work. The Price of that Gill was then here one Shilling which was afterwards reduced to 9d. The daily distribution of that Rum, when the men came to be continually employed, being attended with Inconvenience & complaints, General Stanwix paid them their fill in money, which without encreasing the Publick Expense, forwarded greatly the works by introducing the method of Tasks, impracticable with Rum; and one man making commonly two Tasks or two days work in one; One Half is saved in Times and consequently so much Provisions upon the whole. When you reduced the Rum to 6d a gill their Pay followed that reduction: therefore they have in fact only a Gill of Rum a day, whether in kind or fact is all one for the Publick and tho' Rum by the Barril is bought here at the rate of ten shillings a Gallon, the Retailing cannot sell it much under six pence a Gill considering the high'wages of their Servants and the price they have to pay for Provisions. Whatever may be done elsewhere it appears to me very just to pay the Soldiers at this Place for Work they are charged 10 and 11 shillings a pair of shoes, shirts and stockings, are in proportion, and being kept constantly at work they waste more than double the usual allowance of those necessaries, and their pay alone could hardly keep them in repairs at any other Post all must be cheaper from the difference of water and land carriage. Other regiments have not been constantly at work and have done other duties-But this is the fourth year this Battalion is worked Winter and Summer without intermission (except the time you was here) and the men begin to be a little discouraged to see no end to their fatigues as excepting Sundays when the Guards are relieved, they have not one day to themselves. All the circumstances peculiar to this place, and the Battalion considered, I see only one method, and that I apprehend impracticable this Summer, to send them upon some other service, and relieve them by Troops not used to be paid for work. I am to sensible of the necessity of reducing even in the smallest Articles, the heavy Expenses of this War, that if I could



Page 76


76

BOUQUET PAPERS.

contribute to that end in my own narrow sphere, I think myself obliged in honour and duty to do it. But I cannot think it adviseable to make any alteration this year here, as there are so few men and so much work to do. But whatever you will think proper to determine there upon shall be executed. What I have said concerns only the Battalion but it is not practicable to make a difference with the Provisions while employed on the same duty, and we cannot afford to loose the l1bour of the Regulars become now very expert and handy in making bricks, lime, sod work &c. I must beg the favour of your orders concerning the Detachment of Artillery as they have nothing to do, I make them give six men for the Fort guard to have as many more of ours for work. I wanted also to employ their Artificers about the Fort but they dont think themselves obliged to work out of the Artillery unless they are paid for it. As I am not acquainted with the extraordinary privileges of that Corps, I dropt it till I know your intentions. Bentrick's good fortune has given me great pleasure. I hope he will continue to deserve the protection of his Patrons. I beg your pardon for the length of this letter at a time when Business must crowd upon all sides on you. Permit me to congratulate you upon your promotion and appointment to the Government of New York. I am with great Respect Sir your most obedient & most Hble Servant (no signature) General Monckton [A 8, p 287] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR I wrote you lately very fully of all my proceedings at this place, since that.time I have been a little alarmed by the reports of the discontent and bad designs of the Indian Nations, which as they carried some appearance of Truth, put me upon my guard, and made me at pains to find out the true cause of their discontent, it was first told me, it proceeded from the Northern Indians, but I now find it comes from the Six Nations, and for your Information I give you the Intelligence I had from my Indian Interpreters and several other people of character whom I can depend upon. The Six Nations have sent Deputies and large Belts of Wampum to



Page 77


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

77

all the Indians, from the Bay of Gaspie to the Illinois, inviting them to take up the Hatchet against the English, two of their Deputies (Seneca Chiefs) came here two days ago to propose it to the nations here, and to invite them to a grand council at the Little Lake, with the Delewares and Shawanies, whose chiefs are already there amongst whom is the Bover; as I have so good information of everything that passes I hope to be able to prevent the Indians here from taking any concern. The scheme laid is that the Indians in general shall at one time cut off all the communications, and stop the Roads, at Niagara, Fort Pitt and here, and at the same time sease upon all the goods & Horses of the Traders at Sanduskie, in order to prevent their taking the advantage, of the Powder & Indian goods, at Sanduskie, I have sent Mr. Hambach, this night with about fifty of the Traders servants armed and five Batteaux to bring all the Traders and Goods here, which will certainly be a great disappointment to their project. I have sent this Express by Presqu' Isle that you may have the Intelligence as soon as possible, the truth of which is not to be doubted, as it came in confidence from the Senecas themselves who with the rest of the Six Nations are to assemble at the Head of French Creek, about twenty five Leagues from Presqu' Isle. I have wrote to the General and Major Walters, but in case of any accident, I should be glad you would give Information of it to the General and to the Officers at the Different Posts, how far the Indians will be able to put their whole plan in execution, I do not know, but it is certain they have very bad designs and will do mischieff, so far as I can learn, they propose to begin in fifteen days after this; I expect Ensign Gorrel, with the Batteaux from Niagara, every day, if he was here with the Provisions I should not be uneasy about my Post, as the Inhabitants seem well disposed to support me. I am with the greatest respect Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL. DETROIT 16th June 1761 The Delawares & Shawanies are certainly greatly concerned in the Plot. Endorsed: Letter from Capt Campbell Detroit 10th June Received the 28th 1761 [A 16, p 252]



Page 78


78

BOUQUET PAPERS.

LETTER FROM CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL. DEAR SIR Since I wrote my last I have certain Intelligence that the Delawars, Shawnees and a part of the Six Nations, have undertaken to surprize Fort Pitt; they say they will have no difficulty in it, as they are allowed to go into the Fort at all times; they are first to begin to intercept the Provisions, so I beg you will inform Colonel Bouquet of this without loss of time and take great precaution when you send to Fort Pitt, there is no time to loose. I am Dear Sir Yours &c DONALD CAMPBELL. DETROIT, June 17th 1761. Endorsed: To Captain Cochrane Officer Commanding His Majesty's Forces at Presqu' Isle. [A 16, p 254] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR I had the honour to write you the 16th Instant by an Express to Presqu' Isle, which I hope is come to hand, as I desired Captain Cochran to send it with all possible dispatch and precaution. "What I then wrote you of the bad intentions of the Six Nations appears to be but too true. I had the Good fortune (as my Intelligence was early) to assemble the nations here before the Deputys from the Six Nations had an opportunity to hold their councils with them. I then told them I was informed of the bad designs of the Six Nations, and of their deputys, being at that time in the Wiandot Village; They owned the deputys was then in the Village, and said they believed they came with no good intentions, they had not then heard them but would next day, and let me know what they said. Two days after they returned and told me what had passed in their council, the purport of which as given me by the Interpreters, I send you in French, as perhaps it might loose its force by my Translation, and which if you think proper may forward to the General. The same accounts of the Council was given me by a French man from Michilimackinak, who at my desire sent one of the Indians who came here with him to attend the council, this I did as I would not Trust entirely to the Intelligence of the Indians here. In case of any accident to the Express, I sent by Presqueisle I have sent Aron the Mohawk who is now a Wiandot, to pass by the



Page 79


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

79

Little Lake, and the Delaware Towns, that he may be able to inform you, of what is passing there. I am more anxious that you should be informed of this affair as one part of their scheme is to endeavour to surprize Fort Pitt, this is to be attempted by a part of the Six Nations, the Delawares and Shawanies, whilst the remainder of the Six Nations were to assemble at the Head of French Creek, and attempt something against Niagara, with the assistance of the Northern Indians, whom they have been endeavouring to bring into their scheme, by means of the Mississaguas. The Disappointment from the nations here, and the bringing away the Indian goods, from Sandusky, will be a great means to disappoint their schemes. If they have not already begun Hostilitys; I have sent an Express to the General by Niagara, but in case of any accident should be glad you communicated this intelligence to him and General Monckton, if he still commands the Southern District. Ensign Gorrel returned last night from Niagara with the Batteaux, which makes me entirely easy as to my post. JI wrote to Major Walters to send me some ammunition by Mr. Gorrel, his answer was he could give me none without orders from General Amherst; by his refusal which I own surprised me much, I am obliged to take some from the Traders till a supply is sent me, as it is absolutely necessary to give a Little to the Indians at present; The Carpenters only arrived here yesterday, a farther supply of materials for building Batteaux is absolutely necessary. I have prepared Wood for ten Batteaux they have only brought me two small kegs of pitch, which is not enough to repair the Batteaux that are here; I send off this Express in such a hurry that I have not time to make out the Returns, shall send them by next opportunity, at the same time I have the pleasure to acquaint you that there is no alterations since last Return and not one sick man in the Garrison. I have the Honour to be with the Greatest Respect & Esteem Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL. DETROIT 21st June 1761 To Colonel Bouquet Commanding at Fort Pitt [A 16, p 262]



Page 80


80

BOUQUET PAPERS.

HUTACHE GAMELIN TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. (Translation.) DETROIT SIR, 24th June 1761 I have received that which you have done me the honor of writing me & I am very sensible of your kind remembrance, I assure you of my humble respect and thank you for all the goodness you have shown me & pray you to continue them to me. I will try always as far as lies in me to merit your esteem. I would wish with all my heart to be able to help the sale of Monsieur Hamblacks goods as much for your sake as for his, but I think that he should try to free himself having much spirit and a good partner. I send you by him a beaver blanket and a bag of pocarme; I would like Sir to have something worthy to present to you, which I would do with pleasure but alas where there are only Barbarians one cannot get any great curiosities. I have the honor to be with profound respect Sir Your very humble & very obedient Servant HUTACHE GAMELIN. Endorsed: Letter of Monsieur Gamelin 24th June 1761 [A 16, p 275] W. HAMBACH TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT DETROIT HONORED SIR June 27th 1761 I have the pleasure to inform you of my safe Return from Santosgy; but I am sorry to acquaint your honour, that Captain Campbell, was entirely dissatisfied with Captain Callender and me, for discovering the secret to the Indians, although we did it to prevent mischief, if any had been intended by them, as you will hear by Captain Campbells farther information, that he is sure of the intended Plot. Our present remittance, which Mr. Vandervelden, takes down in Furs, and Drest Leather, consist of about eleven Hundred pounds, and the Skins and Bills which Remains us amounts to about Five Hundred more; I beg the favour of your Honour to lett me know how soon you imagine those Bills will be payed, and where, I have ordered Mr.



Page 81


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. 81 Abraham Mitchell to pay the hundred Pounds, to Mr. Lunan and I hope he will make no difficultys of doing it without any delay, or if he does, I can pay your Honor in Bills who are in my hand if you will be pleased to accept of them. I expect if Captain Callender comes up here to settle matters with him, as I have had the Honour of mentioning to you, in my Letter from Santosgy. I am with profound Respect Sir Your Honours most obedient & most Humble Servant W. HAMBACH. Endorsed: Letter from Mr. Hambach [A 16, p 283] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. FORT PITT SIR 30th June 1761. By the inclosed Coppys of the repeated Intelligence I have from Detroit, you will see the sudden Revolution happened in our Indian Affairs, I did give very little credit to the first advices, but upon the following letters just received I have taken the necessary measures to prevent a surprise The Inhabitants to the number of about 120 are arrived and divided into two companies keeping guards along the banks of the rivers, and being to-day in the fort the Pensilvanians. (Sic) And till we can close the N. W. part of the Rampart, the Gorges of the Bastions are stockaded. It is very probable that the Detroit Indians having refused to join the Confederates they will drop their Project, But as they have since sent new Messengers to the Shawanese & Southern Indians-And remain at Sandusky they may yet attempt something in hopes of being jbyn'd by the whole. If we had a Vessel upon Lake Erie it would be of great service to support the advanced Posts, and as Major Walters has refused to send ammunition to Detroit, I must send some from hence, but shall not without probable certainty of it being delivered up. The affair of the Indian killed was particularly unlucky at this Juncture, tko' as it happened so much later they cannot make it a pretence of their conspiracy. I have made it up with the Chiefs about us, in a Conference held yesterday, and they all agreed that the Indian 11



Page 82


82

BOUQUET PAPERS.

deserved his Fate. This morning an old Indian Trader, Soldier in the pensilvanians and bat man to Capt Little arrived here he had been left on the Road near the Three Redouts to hunt his master's Horses was taken by two Indians Delaware and Mohikan and carried a whole day with them tied at night and released the next day by the Mohikan who knew him while the Delaware who had threatened several times to kill him was gone hunting. I reinforce Ligonier with 1 Corps & 6 R. A. All our Communication from that place to Presqu' Isle is very unsafe, as seldom a man appears on the Road without being Robb'd. You will observe by the Return of the Pensilvanian Troops that their 300 men are reduced to one half, the last division arrived here on Saturday, having been 13 days from Bedford. Burent is arrived with the Horses and has gone back with two waggons to bring Forage and from Ligonier he has an escort. Captain Gordon is expected every day & I hope brings your letters. I beg you will send me your orders concerning the present which cannot be avoided to be given to the Delaware and Shawanese if agreeable to their Engagement they deliver their captives and as the Communication (Sic) at Bedford & Cumberland may be wanted here. How you choose to have it brought up is we have no carriages and cannot afford Escorts without neglecting the works. I would think this a proper opportunity to get more Troops of Pensilvania enlisted for the time you will think necessary, and not only for a few months. In this critical circumstance you may be certain that should I receive your leave to go down I would not quit this Post till the Storm is blown over. I have the honour to be with great respect Sir Your most obedient and most humble Servant Mr. Ours has taken the charge of the stores in the room of Mr. Hamilton sent to Virginia-Capt. Clapham is discharged from the works by Capt Gordon's directions. Copy of my Letter to General Monckton 30th June sent by Corp. Coffin and an Indian. COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL. FORT PITT DEAR SIR 30th June 1761 I am to acknowledge the favour of your Letters of the 1st May 1st 8th 16th 17th & 21st June which last was delivered to me by Aaron.



Page 83


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL.

83

The intelligence you have been pleased to communicate me concerning the Defection of the Six Nations, and the Plot they were hatching against us are so surprising that I could not credit the first accounts: but your last letter and the minutes of their conference with the Western Indians, puts it beyond doubt, I have taken in consequence the necessary Precautions to prevent surprise and in a few hours secured the Fort against any attempt of that kind, the Beaver was here, and with all the other chiefs affect to be entirely ignorant of the Intentions of the Six Nations. I had a long conference with them this day in which I hope to have made them sensible of the rashness of the enterprize and the bad consequences that would attend it: they appear sincere in their promises, of fidelity to their former Treaties with us, and tho' I am not over credulous, it is so much to their actual Interest to be at peace with us, that I think we can be easy about them, they have also engaged to negotiate with the Shawanese and persuade them to deliver their captives and leave off stealing horses. The General behaviour of Indians (Delawares excepted) has been Intolerable of late the Mingoes who live upon the heads of Alleghany have particularly Distinguished themselves by their repeated Insults & Robberies, at last one was shot a few days ago by Lt. Piper of the pensilvania Troops who overtook him carrying off 8 of their Horses of which he recovered 7. I made up in conference with the head men here about that affair which may deter those vagrant thieves from running the risk of their lives for a horse. There is one year's provisions at Venango and Le Boeuf for the Garrisons of those Posts and you know what immense stores we have here. I have also reinforced Ligonier and am perfectly easy about whatever the Six Nations may do-I transmitted immediately to General Monckton your Intelligence, the refusal of Major Walters to send 40you Powder will not be approved below, I forward you twenty four Kegs weighing fifty pounds each, and with flints by Callender's horses, and the Beaver is to give one of his men to escort them to Sandusky where you will send for them, the pensilvania troops are reduced to 140, and you know what I have besides therefore it is not possible for me to spare a party to drive Bullocks at present, and it was on that account that I wanted to have Canadians employed, but I will send you some when this storm is blown over. I am persuaded that it is all over now as they could only flatter themselves to succeed by surprise and I expect that the Six Nations will deny the fact, you will oblige me to communicate to me what further particulars may come to your knowledge of their next steps, the circumstances attending your



Page 84


84

BOUQUET PAPERS.

command, will justify I am sure any Expence you have Judged unavoidable for the good of the service and the' economy is recommended in the strictest manner the Intention of the General cannot be to starve the cause. Tho' Major General Monckton is appointed Governor of New York, he keeps the command of his Department. I never had any Instructions relating to Detroit except to send you cattle if you could employ Canadians to fetch them, I don't know of any Troops being intended to Reinforce you and Indeed I dont well see where they could be spared at present. Your conduct since you arrival at Detroit and the complete satisfaction I know you have given to the Inhabitants and Indians will, I am persuaded, continue you the command in your hands, and tho' I am extremely obliged to the Gentlemen of Detroit for their favourable oppinion of me, I would not be sent there on any consideration, as my private affairs will sore oblige me to quit the Service if I can be indulged in it. I enclose you Lieut McDonald's Commission for which Capt. Barnsley has been obliged to pay ~175 sterling and the Ensigns ~125. I have no pitch or any kind of naval stores and I informed the General of it, in the mean time write to Niagara or try to make some Tar, a number of cows are gone to Detroit if you should want meat you might buy them and give the people a Draft on me. I beg my compliments to the Gentlemen with you, and remain with great Truth Dear Sir Your most obedient Very humble servant P. S. Colonel Young has settled his accounts & has a Ballance of ~1500 which give me great pleasure as it will deliver him of a disagreeable situation and entitle us to our arrears. ' Capt Hay and Mitchelson of the Artillery are ordered for some Expedition but the Destination is not known. Don has not yet Joyned us, we expect Cap Gordon every day with the General's letters who is gone back to New York. Endorsed: Copy of my Letter to Cap. Campbell 30th Jane 1761-sent by Sandusky & Presqu' Isle[A 23-1, p 89.] REPORT ON MR. BABBY. Some time ago Mr. Babby a French Trader who has not taken the oath of allegiance applied to the commanding officer for a Battoe to. bring up his skins from the Shawnese Town which was granted to. him upon condition to carry no goods from this Place with him.



Page 85




LETTER FROM GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. About the same time one Blaine an English Trader at this place informed the Commanding officer that Mr. Babby wanted to bay some Indian goods of him & asked if he could let him have them-He was told that he could not, But when Mr. Babby's skins should come here -he might then try them provided they were paid him in Cash or Bills. But not in merchandizes. The 4th Instant in the morning the commanding officer was informed that contrary to his orders & in a clandestine manner, The Battoe granted to Mr. Babby had been loaded with Indian goods ready to set off, upon which the said goods were ordered to be seized and deposited in the King's stores when an exact Inventory of the same was taken in presence of the People concerned. Another circumstance deserving notice is that Mr. Blaine came the morning of the 4th Instant to ask the commanding officers leave to deliver some Indian goods on which being referred to the former orders given him. This is the subject on which the Court is to enquire & desires to state the facts in the clearest manner for the Information of the General. that subject said that the goods were yet in his house tho' they had been delivered before to said Mr. Babby. [A 23-1, p 73] LETTER FROM GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. NEW YoRK July ye 5th 1761 SIR The Day before yesterday I was favoured with your Letters of the 12th June. I am sorry to find that the Provincials move up so slow, as we are loosing a great deal of work. Croghan who will deliver you this is going to'Detroit, to meet Sir Wm Johnston-and as Sr William is to have a great meeting there the Genl has desired me to send him some Cattle to treat the chiefs with. I have spoke to Croghan about it who says there need only to be a few Drivers and he,will send some Indians. You will therefore send off immediately what you think will be necessary or can conveniently be done, I write to Plumstead to send up others. In regard to the men Intitled to their Discharge, I think you ought to discharge as many as will bring you down to your compliment. I hope before you receive this you will have repaired for the Block. House at Sanduski, Croghan will have a good opportunity of speaking about it to the Indians, as he goes to Detroit. I wish Sir it was more in my power to comply with your Request





Page 86


86

BOUQUET PAPERS.

than it really is, But as your necessity is so very great, I cannot but acquesce in your coming to Philadelphia, where I am hopefull that you will be able to settle every thing to your satisfaction. You will leave the command to the next officer, if Capt Mathews health does not absolutely require it, I don't see how he can be spared, & on that his staying or coming down must depend. I expected that Colonel Bard of the Pensilvanians would have been with you before this, if so, the command will devolve on him. You can not Sir be ignorant of the necessity there will be for your speedy Return to Pittsburgh & I dont in the least doubt but you will make all the dispatch you can. As to the Artillery People, the Genl has ordered Capt Hay, Lieut Mitchelson, Bennet the Conductor as many of the Staff & men as can be spared to be here by the middle of August so that you will keep with you as by my Last, and I have wrote Capt Hay that I think it will be necessary to leave a Carpenter, Cooper, Collar maker & Smith; so that exclusive of them all the Rest must come down. I am with much esteem Sir Your most obedient & humble Servant ROBT MONCKTON. P. S. Since finishing my letter I learn that Lieut Piper of the Pensilvanians has killed an Indian at Ligonier, & that there has been another killed at the Salt Lake at Tuscarora near one Smyleys I have ordered Croghan to enquire into in his way" up & I should be glad that you would let me know the particulars. R. M. Letter from General Monckton 5th July received of Mr. Croghan the 2nd day of October 1761 in presence of Capt Gordon Lt. Bassett answered the 5th [A 8, p 298] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR I hope before now you have received my letter by Presqu' Isle Also the two I wrote you by Aron & Mr. Vandervelden. This will be delivered to you, by one of the deputies of the Six Nations, who returned here from Sanduskie with another Seneca, after they found the Indians here would not go there to Council. The day after their arrival they assembled the nations here for the second time in the Wiandot Village. They began their council with several speeches & Belts of Wampum to accommodate all the differences betwixt them and the Nations here,



Page 87


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

87

and ended with recommending to them to keep their young men at home to go no more to war against the Cheroquees as they would have some other business for them. Afterwards he produced a large belt of Wampum painted red which they call a War hatchet, & said they were sent by the Chiefs of the Six Nations, who with ye Delawares, Shawanies & Southern Indians, were but one people, & had but one voice, that the English were now in possession of their country, had used them ill, & that they came with this belt to desire their assistance to dispossess the English of their country, and addressing themselves particularly to the Wiandots said, We look upon you as the head of all the Nations here, & know if you agree to it, all the other nations will follow your example, & by this belt we invite you to cutt off the English at Detroit, & we shall do our endeavours to do the same at Niagara & Fort Pitt. The Nations here would give no answer but in my presence, although there was a party for them in all the Nations, yet by means of the Wiandot Interpreter (whom we can never too much reward for his services in this affair) we had the good fortune to gain the majority of the Wiandots who lead the others. Accordingly the Chiefs of the Nations here came the next day to my house and brought with them the Six Nation Chiefs, repeated all the Speeches they had made them & at last produced the War hatchet which they had given them, and gave it to me as a testimony of their good intentions towards us. This not a little surprized the Six Nations, who did not expect the hatchet to be produced, but upon seeing it. one of them got up & said, Since we are discovered I will tell you the whole affair, he made a long speech telling that the English had used them ill, & that they came with an intention to ask their assistance against the English, but Sthat since it was now discovered & they refused to accept the hatchet they had opened his heart and given him a new way of thinking & that he would return to his nation with the settlements of the Nations here whicfi he believes would give them great joy & addressing himself to me begged I would let the English General & Sir William Johnson know every thing that had happened here & hoped at the same time the English would use them better as they had dealt very bad with them lately. I gave a Belt of Wampum to the Six Nations & told them I was much surprized that the Six Nations who had been always our allies,. would endeavour to draw the other nations into a war with us and



Page 88


88

BOUQUET PAPERS.

desired them to think better & to go home & assure their chiefs that the nations here were well disposed to the English & recommended it to them to send to let it be known to the other nations, & to go themselves to Sir William Johnson so soon as possible & lay the whole affair before him. The Nations have delivered each a Belt of Wampum informing what I had said & desiring them to tell their chiefs that they were obliged to them for the peaceable speeches they had made, but were surprized td see them offer the war hatchet, that they were happy with the English and looked upon them, not as their friends who'came to disturb their tranquility with the English & recommended it in the strongest terms, to tell their chiefs to keep Peace with the English & if they did not it would make mischief betwixt their nations. I have not time to send you a coppy of the Council but the above is pretty much the substance of it, the bearer has undertaken to tell the chiefs of the Delawar's & Shawnies who wait for him & the Result of this Council at the little Lake of the Delawar Towns & would do nothing material without the nations here, which I hope I have been so lucky as to prevent. As the bearer speaks good French if you use him well he will tell you the whole project, which was very great. He assures me that the six Nations have not yet begun hostilitys & that the little pillaging in your department is by the Delawares & Shawnies he likewise informs me that he left in the six nation country a deputation of the Cheroquees & Southern Indians who wait for his return. This is all I can tell you at present & reffer you to the bearer for further particulars as I think him a very sensible fellow & the better you use him the more he will tell you. Mr. McDonald setts off to morrow for Niagara for whom I have wrote to the General & Sir William Johnson, but in case of any accident should be glad you communicated the contents of this letter to the General, as I think the discovery of very great consequence. Nothing has happened in the Garrison since my last only Lewis Trofield of the Genls Compy has deserted & I suspect has gone towards the Illinois with some Indians. I have the honour to be with great respect and esteem Sir Your most obedt. Servt DONALD CAMPBELL Detroit 7th July 1761

4



Page 89


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL.

89

You cannot be too much on your guard against the Shawanese. Endorsed: Letter from Capt. Campbell Detroit 7th July 1761 Received the 26th Do. [A 17, p 10] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL. FORT PITT 9th July 1761. DEAR SIR I received last night by Mr. Vandenfelden your Letter of the 27th you will by this time have had mine of the 30h by Aron which will convince you that I did not slight your Intelligence, and that I am of the same opinion with youi, that the Repulse the Six Nations met from the western Indians and the Discovery of their Scheme, will make them drop it and deny the fact to clear themselves-But we know what we have to trust to; and if I am not mistaken I think that they have given us a fair opportunity to close our connections with the Nations about us and set them upon.a par with those Dictators of the Savage Commonwealth. Sir William must certainly be informed of the Plott, and will soon unravel the whole, since my last, we have had some more horses stolen at the Saw mill, I sent a party of our People & Delawares who pursued 60 miles, but as they travelled day & night could not overtake them: they have also stuped an express between Presqu 'Isle and Le Boeuf: which seems to confirm more & more your Intelligence. Callender and Hambach were certainly wrong in acting at Sandusky without your Orders, tho' I must say that they have done no hurt, as Mr. Baby told it himself at the same time to some Hurons as he informed Cap. Cochrane at Presqu' Isle your express Aron who cannot hold his tongue told them likewise all he knew. And the indiscretion hath been so general, that tho' I wanted to keep it a secret here, the soldiers who brought me your Letters from Presqu' Isle had published it everywhere. It is extremely Disagreeable to be obliged to interfere in Indian Politics, as there are so many people medling in it without any General System or eveni communication of the steps they take. The Government of Pensilvania (by what right I do not know) treat underhand with the Delawares, without letting me know what they do or aim at so that it is impossible for me to do any good and I should 12



Page 90


90

BOUQUET PAPERS.

certainly Drop it Intirely If I could do it consistant with my duty in the present circumstances. I have proposed a closer union to the Delawares who seem to come into it, and be willing to joyn with us in a Belt to the Wyandots, But this to be done before you at Detroit and the first steps they took in consequence was to assist me in pursuing the above thieves of the 6 Nations, and promising to bring the Shawanese to a sence of their duty. The Licentiousness of the Traders here, has obliged me to insist upon the most implicit obedience of my orders, and never suffer any to infringe them with Impunity, after, a six months Struggle I have subdued their obstinacy, and brought them to some kind of order and subordination, to which they were utter strangers, that principle induced me to write to you concerning Lowry, to convince them that I could come at them tho' they disobeyed out of my sight. But at your request I forgive him, and he may stay at Detroit as long as you will think proper. You will oblige me likewise to forgive Callender who has taken great pains in carrying Messages from me to the Delaware, who seem to like the man; He has acted imprudently but his intentions are good, and I found him always ready to quit his own affairs where he could be wanted to serve the publick, he will deliver the Powder and Flints mentioned in my last. It is rumered that General Amherst was expected at Niagara, but I make no doubt but he purposes going to Detroit, and coming round the Lake to Presqu' Isle proceed to this Post. Nothing would be more agreeable to us tho' our people are in a shocking condition without cloathing, and almost without anything regular, about them, having been so long Labourers, that the Soldier is buried under the Clown. I have had no Letters from General Monckton since the 17h May. Cap. Gordon has not joyned yet-tho' expected every day-No news from Europe. I am Dear Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant Captain Campbell. Endorsed: Copy of my Letter to Cap. Campbell 9h July 1761. [A 23-1, p 94]



Page 91


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON.

91,

COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. FORT PITT 10th July 1761 SIR I had yesterday the honour of your letter of the 28th June. The Detachment of Artillery ordered down are on their way to Bedford. The men have been chosen agreeable to the List sent by Capt Hay. He leaves us only one Bombardier unless he sends up the one at Philada As soon as Captain Gordon comes up I shall give all the Dispatch I can to the intended Block house at Sandusky. After that Detachment is gone the Pensilvanians diminishing daily by sickness & desertion little can be expected of the few men remaining here. A plott for desertion was discovered among them yesterday. The Ringleader was killed and the six others concerned taken & punished. Coll Bard Capt De Haas & Capt Bryan not joined yet. We have no ship Carpenter here & I informed you that the only two we had (being afterwards joined by a third) had been sent to Detroit agreeable to your orders. I'll write to have them employed on the Block House when they are done of the Batteau. In a Letter of the 28th June received yesterday from Detroit Capt Campbell confirms the Intelligence transmitted to you the 30th without any new Circumstances. Nothing has happened here since except some more Horses stolen. I take this to be a proper time to stop effectually these Robberies & put an end to the double dealings of the Indians, if you would permit it withdraw the Trader from the Shawanese till they deliver up the Prisoners & Horses agreeable to their repeated Promises. They are in want of Powder & if they were excluded from the Benefit of the Trade they would be forced to buy it at immoderate rate from the other Indians which they would not stand long,, nor in the meantime do so much damage. I hope Sir the amount of vouchers I transmitted to you in April are arrived & passed. As Capt Gordon is allowed as Pay Master I beg you would order him to pay every thing here that detail being disagreeable to me and very troublesome. I mentioned some time ago that a quantity of Indian corn had been lodged in the Kings Store & the People desire to know if it will be bought & at what price. I am with great respect Sir Your most obedient humble Servant H. BOUQUET.



Page 92


'92

BOUQUET PAPERS

P. S. Coll Bard Capt De Haas & Capt Bryan not arrived yet. "To General Monckton 10th July 1761. [A 8, p 300] GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK July ye 12th 1761. SIR I am favoured with your Letters of the 29th Deer. & 14 Jany. by Lieut. Holmes with the several Inclosures. In regard to the Germans you mention as they have been so long with the french, I am afraid they would not stay with you. I therefore think they had better not be taken. I spoke to the General concerning Mr. Bellestre's Houses. His answer was that as they are within the Fort, he cannot allow of his selling them, But in regard to those at the Detroit, it must be settled hereafter when we know a little more of what is to be done in this part of the World. Peter Schomer, the supposed Deserter of my regiment, made his escape from the Party on the road here. As to the Victualling of the Indians, it must be continued in the best manner it can till things are a little fixed. You did very well Sir in ordering Galbraith to be turned out to prevent such bad practices for the future. The method you have taken about Pack Horses is by much the best if you can get proper persons to take care of them. I am glad to find the Upper Posts are so well supply'd and that Detroit will be able to hold out till the Spring Majr. Walters was very sparing of his Provisions, considering he had for near eleven months, The Genl is much displeased with him for it, You did well in giving Chpt. Mather money to pay for venison. The officers where that meat is delivered must be careful in giving Receipts for the Provisions, as that meat ought to be a saving to the Crown. I will order you some money up by the first safe conveyance, but if you can in the mean time get any for Bills you will be so good as draw on Msrs. Nelsons to whom I will give orders to pay them. As Ourry at St. Clair have (Sic) not as yet settled their Accts. and are both about purchasing you must be so good as to dispense with their attendance for a little time. In regard to the vessel, the Genl is not yet determined about it, as by the Acct of the Officers that have been over the Lake the Shores they met with make it a very dangerous navigation, tho' between Presqu' Isle and Niagara I believe it would.doe very well. I



Page 93


GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

I mentioned to the Genl. Lieut Ralph's situation. In answer to it I am to acquaint you that he would by no means part with an officer whom you think so serviceable and that as soon as he can possibly be spared he will give him leave to go Home. Lieut Bassett has the Genl's leave to sell but he must find the Ens to succeed to the Lieuty. (who I suppose is McDonald) & a Person to Purchase the Ency before it can be done. I am told there are many in the Virginians that would purchase Enscys. Inclosed is a copy of a Requisition. I am glad to find by your Return that you have reinlisted some of the discharged men; as the number of the latter was considerable. However it is certainly very right that any officer commanding a Regt. should be always as punctual, as the nature of the Service will admit of it in those cases. I shall therefore speak to the Genl. that you may likewise give those at Niagara their Discharges. I am obliged to "you for Kuhn's discharge and am extremely glad to hear that Corp'. punishment is laid aside, as I scarce ever knew a Regiment the better for it when carried to excess. The same disease you mention has prevailed along the continents & a good many people dy'd of it. As I have in my letter of the 26th past mentioned every thing that occur'd to me relative to the Upper Posts. I have nothing further to add in this on that Head But when the packet which is expected daily, arrives, I shall then write you more at large. I am with much truth & esteem Sir Your obedient Humble Servant ROBT. MONCKTON [A 8, p 246J GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. PHILADELPHIA, SIR July ye 13th 1761. On the 8th Instant I received at New York your Letter of the 30th June. It gives me much surprise that so sudden a change should arise amongst the Indians, tho' I am hopefull that it will not turn to any thing, as the Detroit Indians have refused to join them. However every preparation should be taken to prevent any mischief. Upon the receipt of your Letter I immediately sent off an Express to General Amh rst & expect soon to have an answer. The General had wrote



Page 94


94

BOUQUET PAPERS.

me some days before that Sr. Winm. Johnson was sett off to Detroit, to have a meeting with the Indians (of which I acquainted you in my last) and that two Vessels are building above the Falls; and Major Gladwin gone or going, with a large Detachment to Detroit. All which may put a stop to the proceedings of the Indians. About Pittsburgh I am sure the Indians have not had the least reason of Complaint, as they have always been acquainted with the steps we have taken. Ourry has orders to arm the Inhabitants of Bedford & to keep a good look out & what to doo concerning the Stores in case any thing should happen. In the mean time until I hear from the General I shall try to get the Governor & 'Commissioners to compleat the 800. I must desire that you will not leave Pittsburgh till every thing is quiet and that I think I can with safety allow you to come down. It would give me great pleasure Sir, in any shape to do you any service in my Power but your Presence at Pittsburgh cannot be dispensed with till this is blown over. Should the Delawares & Shawanese comply in their Engagements, in bringing in the Prisoners some small Presents must of necessity be given them, but in that I must beg that it may be with the greatest frugality. Croghan could not leave this before now, he will deliver you this. Pray let me know how things go on, by every opportunity. I am with much esteem Sir Your most obedient humble Servant ROBERT MONOKTON. General Monckton 13th July 1761 Received the 23rd Answered the 24th [A 8, p 303] CAPT. DONALD OAMPBELL TO COL. HARRY BOUQUET. SIR I was favoured with yours 30th June by Aron who made very great dispatch. I wrote you very fully 7th July by one of the Seneca Indians, who promised faithfully to deliver it to you. I now send you a copy of the last Indian Council, by which you all see



Page 95


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

95

the whole designs of the Six Nations laid open, this I hope will put it out of their power to deny their bad intentions. I am glad the Delawares have hitherto behaved so well. I am well informed they waited for the Result of the Council here & were to be entirely determined by the part the nations here took in the affair. The Shawanies who came to the Council at Sandoskye were invited here by the Wiandots to inform them of what had passed at the Council with the Six Nation Deputys. The Wiandots assembled the other nations of Detroit & brought the Shawanies with them to me, and in my presence delivered them belts of wampum telling them they were affraid they had listened too much to the bad Councils of the Six Nations and recommended it to him in the strongest manner to be ffriends with the English & by no means to disturb the peace of the country, that if they continued to hear the bad councils of the Six Nations against the English they would look upon them no longer as their ffriends. This the Shawanies promised to tell their Chiefs and said they did not doubt but they would pay the greatest regard to their advice, but at same time observed that the English had threatened to kill them for not'delivering up their prisoners. I have sent a Batteau to Sandusky for the ammunition you was so good as send me, it will come in good time as I have been obliged to buy some from the traders. The Indians have constant demands upon me and think themselves entitled to all the ffavours that we can bestow upon them, for their good behaviour in this last affair, for which reason I have been obliged to take more upon me since that time. The Genl. having given me no particular orders, but in a great measure left everything with regard to this post to my own discretion. As this is the best season of the year for bringing provisions here I have sent Lieut McDonald with five Battalions to Niagara, I have now one hundred and twenty barrels of Pork in store, but little flower, but as the harvest is near at hand we cannot be at great loss for that article. I approve very much of having cattle sent from Fort Pitt, but cannot find Canadians that will undertake it. The Inhabitants of this Country are only accustomed to go by water and very few of them know anything of the road to Fort Pitt. As the communication from here to Fort Pitt continues to be free, I hope if you have not already sent some cattle, you will send as soon as possible as it would be of the greatest advantage to us.



Page 96


96

BOUQUET PAPERS.

The Genl. mentions to me he is to send a Party to Detroit but does not say from whence or what time. I have wrote to Genl. Monckton and sent him a copy of the last Indian Council which youll please forward to him. My compliments to all the gentlemen with you I am with the greatest esteem & respect Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant DETROIT DONALD CAMPBELL. 22nd July 1761 I wrote you in a former letter of the bearer Lowrey. I am sorry he has been guilty of a thing to merit your displeasure, but I beg if its possible to pardon him for this time, he has behaved himself here to my entire satisfaction, has furnished us in everything we wanted for the Indians very reasonably. I must do Lowrey the Justice to say that the French and Indians are better pleased with his way of dealing than with any trader we have had here. Agreeable to your order I have sent him from this place. (No finish to letter.) [A 17, p 37] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON. SIR FORT PITT 24th July 1761 Yesterday Mr. Croghan delivered me your letter of the 13th. Nothing new has happened since my last, all the Indians about us very quiet. The Delawares & Shawanese are much divided in their Councills some being for delivering the Prisoners others for keeping them; the Delawares are said to have 100 yet & the others 150. Colonel Burd Capt DeHaas and Bryan, are arrived, likewise Capt Gordon with Ensign Paully; he has no sketch of Sandusky Lake having left it with you. That Detachment must distress us in every respect we have no Horses to carry their provisions upon their long march, much less to feed them there, and to carry Nails Blocks & a, few necessary Materials & no cattle of any kind (French Creek is not to be depended upon.) The Provincials not thinking themselves obliged to go beyond this Post, I will not ask them, but send off the R. A. under the command of Lieut Meyer as soon as I can procure Horses & Cattle. As Economy is so strongly recommended I would think that Major Gladwyn could have built that Block house with half the trouble &



Page 97


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON.

97

expence; Mr. Croghan proceeds to Detroit and will acquaint the Indians with our Intention and fix upon the most convenient spott on the South Side of the Lake; I hope you are not to garrison it from hence. You will soon be informed by Sir William and Croghan of the true Reasons of Discontent among the Northern Indians. Those in this District do not complain of anything except that the traders are not permitted to go to their Towns; But when they are told that the Reasons are their not delivering the Prisoners and continuing to steal our horses, they have nothing to say but repeat Promises they will not perform till forced to do it by keeping the Trade from them. Notwithstanding the bad usage one Trader met at the Shawanese Town they are very eager to venture amongst them to be at Liberty to deal upon their own Terms; I had the honour to Inform you that I never permitted them but to such places where the King has Posts & Garrisons; Crawford produces me a new pass from you copy of which I inclose, as containing two Clauses upon which I and the Traders differ in opinion. The first is the Liberty given them to pass to Detroit or to any Indian Settlement in that District by which they think themselves authorized to trade at every Indian Hutt, and this I could not grant as I believe it contrary to your Intentions; The other is the Proviso that they shall conform themselves to the Rules and Regulations made or to be made by the Commander in Chief and as no orders from him concerning the Trade have to my knowledge been yet sent here they would Imagine themselves freed from all Restraint. A word more upon them. Ourry asks me the List of the Traders and Settlers here to give them Licences as this is no more a camp but a Garrison I would wish to have your orders thereupon, as I dont apprehend a Quarter Master has any thing to do with it unless he has your approbation, and in that case are all Traders to pay Licenses or only such as retail Liquors? Major Walters writes me that he had received orders from the General not to discharge any of the men whose time was up, upon which he had only discharged those who were unfit for Service. He desires to know if you choose that he should continue to send you the Returns & Reports of his Post or to General Amherst. He was obliged to send the Batteaus back to Presqu' Isle Empty for want of provisions. I am with great respect Sir Your most obliged obedient humble servant (no sig) 13



Page 98


<. f

98 BOUQUET PAPERS. H. HAMBACK TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT DETROIT HONOURED SIR July 25th 1761 I received your favours by Capt. Callendar, and give your Honors my most humble thanks for interesting yourself in my behalf and shall for ever remember with the most grateful sense, those fovours your honour Pleases to bestow on me. I have agreed with Capt Callendar for a cargo of Indian goods consisting of about 1500 ~ more or less, which he Promises to take out in his own name, and get them send up to Santogy (sic), from whence I'll fetch it. But as for selling off a cargo, it is absolutely required to have some Rum along, I hope your honour will be Pleased to allow us some Liquor to bring along, for to sell it to the Inhabitants at this Place. I have wrote to Mr. Mitchell to let them know, that it wont be worth my while to stay here for to sell off (sic) a Rest of a Cargo, and have desired him either to leave the whole over to Mr. Dundosh, one of the Partners, or else, I am willing to take out my Part, as I believe after we have made our return, which we intended to make before winter, that we shall come pretty nigh, of paying off the Stock. Mr Mitchell I hope has payed by this time Mr. Lunan as I ordered him. I am Sir Your honours most obedt huml. Servant. H. HAMBACK P. S. Please to accept of a skin of a young Carribout. Endorsed: Mr. Hamback July 28th 1761. [A 17, p 53] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR I had the Honor to write you by Presqueisle, 16th Instant, & by Aron the Mohawk Indion 21st by Sandoskie who promised to make all possible Dispatch. I have now the pleasure to acquaint you that all the Ammunition & Indian Goods is arrived here from Sandoskie.



Page 99


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

99

Mr. Calendar and Mr Hamback were guilty of a piece of very great imprudence by communicating to the Chiefs of the Indians at Sanduskie the reason for bringing away the Goods. Mr. Callendar writes me he was to go to Fort Pitt, at the desire of the Indians, to acquaint you it was a false;tarm, this Town surprizes me a good deal, as you may be assured I would not write of such a piece of Intelligence without being fully certain of the Truth of it. My Letter by Aron with a copy of the Indian Council I hope would convince you I had reason to believe their designs were bad; but besides that I had two Gentlemen of Credit concealed in a Room, where the Seneca Chief told the whole Scheme in confidence. If I had been easily alarmed, or apt to believe the bad Reports that have been passing here for some time past, I should have sent many Expresses before now, but the circumstances which occur every day give me more and more reason to believe what I wrote you before to be true; I make no doubt, as the plot is discovered, and the nations hete not willing to join, the Indians will be at all pains to clear themselves at present, but it must soon appear against them; you may Remember I wrote you before of the bad designs of the Shawanies, it is by their means the Six Nations have carried on their correspondence with the Southern Indians. The Seneca chief told that the Shawanies had already begun to steal your Horses at Fort Pitt, he was so particular as to say they intended to take off a great many Horses, which were upon the side of the Moningahella, in one night. I received yours concerning Lourie the Sutler, I am sorry he should have disobeyed your orders, he is now selling off the remainder of his Goods, which I allowed him to do upon account of his partners as it must have been a great loss to them, to be obliged to carry them back to Fort Pitt; how soon that can be done shall send him from here. I must say for Lowrie, that he has behaved very well since he has been here and his coming at that season of the year was certainly a great advantage to this place, and much for the benefit of the sedrvice, as he brought the ammunition very safe. If its possible that you can forgive his past crime, I will take it as a particular favour & shall be answerable for his future behaviour; I do everything in my power to encourage the Traders here but the selling such quantitys of Rum at Niagara has been a great loss to the traders here and Trade in general. I have not allowed any to be sold here, notwithstanding of the great quantitys which have been brought



Page 100


100

BOUQUET PAPERS.

by the Traders from Niagara. As Major Walters refused to send me any ammunition, I am obliged to buy at present from the Traders. I have sent you the monthly Return; I am with great Esteem most Respectfully Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL Detroit 27th June 1761 Endorsed: Letter from Captain Campbell Detroit June 27th answered the 9th July 1761 [A 16, p 279] MAJOR WM. WALTERS TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NIAGARA July 30th 1761 DEAR SIR I take the first opportunity to acquaint you that I wrote to you 30th June, which I hope is come to hand, Ensign Holmes arrived here 12th July who brought with him the cloathing for this Garrison Detroit and Presqu' Isle. I ha've sent the cloathing to each of the other posts. By the enclosed returns you will see all the Serjeants hats are sent here for the Battalion, but no Serjts or Drummers coats, I should be glad to know what must be done with the Serjts hats & spare cloathing, or how we can get Serjeants' coats here. Sir William Johnson & Major Gladwin with three hundred Light Infantry is here on their way to Detroit, we are greatly hurry'd in geting Batteaus & Provisions over the Landing that we have not one moments time to spare. I am now preparing Batteaus to carry a party from hence to Detroit of two Subaltern, two Serjeants, two Corps and sixty private men which will make us a thin garrison. Inclosed is a monthly Return for July with a Return of the cloathing sent to this Post. I am Dear Colonel Your most obedt. hum. Servt WM WALTERS Major.



Page 101


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL.. HENRY BOUQUET.

101

OAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENBY BOUQUET. SI I had the honour of both your letters by Capt Calander who arrived here two days agoe with the powder, which came very seasonably as I have been obliged to buy from the traders, for some time past, having had constant demands for it. I wrote you fully by Lowrey 22d inst & sent you a copy of the last Indian Council by which you'll see how well disposed the Indians in this quarter are at present & I think it our own fault if we don't keep them in their present disposition & by keeping them in our interest, we secure all the northern nations who are entirely influenced by the nations here. The Wiandots have repeated to Kilbuck all that passed at the Council with the Six Nations & given him some strings of wampum to carry to his nation, giving them the same advice they gave the Shawanies, not to listen to the bad councils of the Six Nations. I have a letter from Major Walters who-informs me that Genl. Amherst wrote him, that Major Gladwin with three hundred of the light Infantry were upon their march to this place, and that Sir William Johnson comes with them, by that I imagine I am to be relieved, the Major also acquaints me that the cloathing for my detachment is come to Niagara & desires me to send for it, I dayly expect Mr. McDonald from Niagara who will bring it with him. I am not certain but I shall be obliged to take a few of the Cowes that came from Fort Pitt to give the Indians who have asked to give them a Bullock for each nation & think themselves entitled to every thing they ask, since this last affair, whatever number I take shall according to your desire draw upon you for their value. I am obliged to you for forgiveing Lowrey. I have done every thing in my power to serve Mr. Calander & his partner, and which you may be sure I will do to any body you are pleased to recommend. I have sent you the monthly return of the Detachment. I have got a beaver blanket for you which perhaps I shall be the "bearer of myself. I long to know our fate, my compliments to all the gentlemen. I am with the greatest respect and esteem Sir Your most obedient humble Servant DETROIT DONALD CAMPBELL 30th July 1761. rA 17, p 73.]



Page 102


102

BOUQUET PAPERS.

GAVIN COCHRANE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. PRESQU' ISLE August llth DEAR SIR 1761 Lt. Williamhouse of the light Infantry came here Friday last on his way to Detroite & told me I would receive orders to go and build a fort at Sandusky, that 2 Subalterns & 60 men were ordered from Niagara to Detroite, that Sir William Johnson with Major Gladwin were at Niagara and were to go to Detroit with part of the Light Infantry & the Royal Americans ordered there. that Major Gladwin was to go to all the Posts had been occupied by the french beyond Detroite, & Sir William Johnson was going to meet the Indians at Detroite he being sent before to call at Sandusky and tell them Detroite was the place of meeting, he expected to meet Croghan at Sandusky so you must know these things much better than I, the other gentleman's letters by ffisher spoke of my going to Sandusky, but the Major does not mention any thing of it in his letter, but the corporal brought me a verbal message that a Party would go from hence, this uncertainty prevents my design of sending Mr. Dow with what Battoes I could muster or man, for provisions, for the Indian alarm stop'd us some weeks, & Corp. Tull brought us nothing & whoever stays here I should be glad to have a years provision for them, nor can I learn that the schooners are to supply the Garrison, one of them when ready goes, I am told to Detroite with Sir William & the other won't be ready this long time, I shall send off Corp Moss with 2 Battoes to morrow for provisions at all hazards. I am with my compliments to all my friends Dear Sir Your most obedt & very humbl Servant GAVIN COCHRANE. [A 17, p 85] ORDERS FOR LIEUT ELIAS MEYER. SIR. You are hereby directed to take under your command and march tomorrow thirteen August a Detachment of 1 Sub. two Serjts, one Dr



Page 103


OAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENPY BOUQUET.

103

Two Corp: and thirty Private of the first Battn R. A. R. & proceed with convenient Dispatch to Sandusky Lake; on the south side of which; and at the most convenient Place, you are to build a small Block House with a Pallissade round it, to serve as a Halting Place for our Party going & coming from Detroit. As soon as you are arrived at Sandusky you are to inform Capt. Campbell of it, and of the number of cattle you have with you, which being destined for His Garrison, He will send a Party from Detroit to receive them from you & send you salt Pork if you want any, as well as the Ship Carpenters & some necessary Tools, Sawyers, & Masonsyou will also correspond occasionally with Capt. Cochran at Presqu' Isle. On your march and during your stay at Sandusky you will carefully prevent any difference wh Indians & not permit that they get any strong Liquor on any Pretence whatever. You will inform me by all opportunities of your proceedings & be as expeditious as possible in order to compleat your work before the bad weather setts in. You will receive further orders respecting the Garrison of that Post before you leave it. You are to give Certificates to the Horse Drivers specifying the number of days they have been on their march and allow them the time which will appear to you just for the Return of their Horses. The compleat Ration is nine pounds of Bread, eight pounds of Beef or Mutton per week & as seven pounds of flour make nine pounds of Bread where you can not get Bread baked that amount of flour is to be issued in lieu of the nine lbs of Bread and five pounds of Pork is equal to eight Pounds of fresh or Salt Beef. You will allow your men a gill of Rum a day when they work in lieu of Pay. Given under my Hand at Fort Pitt this 12th day of August 1761. To Lieut Elias Meyer of the R. A. R. Endorsed: Orders for Lient El. Meyer Fort Pitt 12th August 1761 [A 23-1, p 109] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR I was favoured with both your Letters, Sir William Johnston and Major Gladwin arrived here the first of this month, The season was



Page 104


104

BOUQUET PAPERS.

soe far advanced to navigate the Lakes that we judged proper to proceed with Part of the light Infantry only to take Possession of the different Posts. I shall refer you to Mr. Cochrane for all Indian Translations Sir William is fully convinced that the confederacy was universal-amongst the Indian Nations in this Part of the Continent but General Amherst in his last letter to me quit discredits any bad design of the Indian Nations, and thinks they are incapable of doing us any hurt, and recomends it by all means to keep them scarce of Powder. General Amherst in his instructions to Major Gladwin mentions his ordering a block house to be built at Sandusky but that it did not regard his command, or this Post he mentions to Sir William Johnston that he had ordered cattle from Fort Pitt to this Place. However at you desire I have eight barrils of Porke, in lieu of the Beef, but I can give you noe flour, I have but one Barril of flour left in store after sending off Sir William Johnston and his Party and can depend only on about ten or twelve thousand weight from the Inhabitants this year, as they have a very bad crop, Major Walters writes me he could only send fifteen Barrils from Niagara till more arrives to him. Mr. Meyer has been here, I have given him one Sawyer and one of the Carpenters alongst with him, the other two I shall send him how soon the Battoes are finished. Lieut Mac Donald had the misfortune to loose four Battoes coming from Niagara but saved the Provisions & this makes me keep the Carpenters employed longer. I have enclosed you the Monthly return, by which you see the officers that are sent to the different Posts, I am to take Possession of Ouiatinon, how soon the navigation of the Wabash will permitt, I have only Lieutenant Mac Donald left here, I wrote to Major Walters to send an officer for the Post of Ouiatinon. We have got the Cloathing from Niagara but were told the Serjeants and drums cloathing went to Fort Pitt. You will be pleased to send it by the first opportunity and a private suit to a man joined from the Indians, I could wish Capt. Barnsley would send us the muster 24th August, as the little money he sent is circulated, and seems to be gone off. There is none of that Tobaco you mention to be had here, but I shall send for it to Ouiatinon as for the Peltry I have given a commission to Lieut Leslye, but I believe I can find Pijouse here, I would



Page 105


LIEUT. EDWARD JENKINS TO COL HENRY BOUQUET. 105 have sent a Beaver Blanket but has not got it soe well dressed as it must be. I am with the greatest respect and esteem Your most obedient humble servant DETROIT 17th August DONALD CAMPBELL. 1761 Endorsed: Letter from Capt. Campbell Detroit 17th Sept 1761. Received by Mr. Croghans the 2d of Oct & answered the 10th. [A 17, p 99] LIEUT. EDWARD JENKINS TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NIAGARA August the 21st 1761 SIR, Major Gladwin with three hundred men left this Place about a Fortnight ago for Detroit, and Sir William Johnson left the Little Fort yesterday with Ens. Schlosser and Holmes and sixty of our Regiment. As this place affords no other news I shall only add my best wishes for your Health and Happiness and am with the greatest Respect and gratitude Sir Your most obliged.obedient humble Servant EDWARD JENKINS Endorsed: Addressed to Henry Bouquet Esq. Lieut Jenkins August 21st 1761. [A 17, p 110] MAJOR WILLIAM WALTERS TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NIAGARA August 24th DEAR COLONEL 1761 I wrote to you the 30th July last which I hope is come to hand. I now enclose a List of a Detachment I have sent to Fort Detroit to reinforce Captain Campbell, with a monthly Return to the 24th August which I hope you will find right, we have been greatly Hurry'd this Summer in forwarding over the carrying place boats & provisions for Major Gladwin's party who went from the Landing at Little 14



Page 106


106

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Niagara with four Hundred Light Infantry the 15th Instant. Likewise forwarding Sir John Johnsons Batteaus & Baggage who is going to the Detroit, also forwarding Ensign Schlosser, Ensign Holmes with two Serjeants two Corpls and sixty men & assisting in building two vessels for Lak Eri and getting the stores and Materials over the Landing so that we have had no time to be Idle. I am Dear Colonel Your most obedient Humble Servant Colonel Bouquet. WM WALTERS Endorsed: Major Walters 24th August Received the 5th Sept. Answered the 10th [A 17, p 121] GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK August the 24th SIR 1761. I have your letters of the 24th and 27th July, unanswered. The General had heard from Captain Campbell before the receipt of my letter. As Sir Winm. Johnson is now I suppose at Detroit, I am in hopes that he will be able to set everything right. In regard to Fort Pitt I think that your Principal intention ought to be, to secure it against a surprise. I hope the Detachment for Sanduski is gone before this. You doo very right in not permitting the Traders to go to the Shawanese, & other Towns, that steal our Horses, till they leave it off, & bring in our Prisoners, for they will never doo it till necessity obliges them. You Judge very right of my Passports, it was never intended that they should go where they pleased; but only to such towns as the commanding officers at the advanced Posts should think proper for them to go to. In regard to Sutlers the Commanding officers at the different Posts are answerable for their Behaviour & of course should fix their Licenses. You will please to acquaint Maj. Walters that for the future he need only send returns to Genl. Amherst. Be so good Sir, as to give advice of the Bills you draw on Mr. Nelson.



Page 107


LIETT. ELIAS MEYER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

107

I am glad to find you treated the Seneca Chiefs as they deserved for it is certainly the best way to keep high tone with them. In regard to your two Deserters Hand & Coulton I will mention them to the General who is expected here in a day or two. As to the Penin". Sergt a Court Martial of the Line may give him a very severe flogging. Ourry has orders to send up ammunition from Bedford. Looking over the accts of Battoe men, I find an officer of the Virginians & Capt Stephens pay'd much about the same time & for just the same number of Virginians, pray is it not a mistake. Inclosed you have a Letter from the General about the three men allow'd the Capt as it came open to me, 1 have acquainted Capt. Barnsley with the Particulars of it. The Genl. desires me to acquaint you, that on the promotion of Lieut Spicemaker he has given Ens. Demeler a Lieuty and as Colonel Haldimand is desirous of having his nephew in the 4th Bat" Lieut Demeler is appointed to the 1st. His Commission is dated the 13th July 1761. I hope by this that you have been able to Recover the money that was stolen of which Capt Barnsley wrote me word. I thought it would be needless to advertise it, as the thieves were not got off. As by your Letter of the 29th you acquaint me that I may expect soon to hear from you again, I shall defer saying anything of the leave you desired to come down till I write you again, which shall be very soon. I am with much truth & Esteem Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant ROBT MONCKTON. Letter from Genl. Monckton N. Y. 24th August. Received by Fleming the 9th of Sept. Answered the 11th do by Fleming. [A 8, p 314] LIEUT ELIAS MEYER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. (Translation.) LAKE SANDUSKY SIR Sept the 1st 1761 I have great need of various things from Detroit which I have thought that one & the other would be stopped in the work for want



Page 108


108

BOUQUET PAPERS.

of. I am resolved to go myself to morrow morning to hasten the things as much as possible. I hope to return in 6 or 8 days. Mr. Pauli is perfectly acquainted with all which has to be done in my absence. I have the honor to be Sir, Your very humble and very obedient servant ELIAS MEYER Lieut. [A 17, p 140] COL HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN ROBERT MONCKTON FORT PITT SIR 10th September 1761. I had yesterday by Fleming the honour of your Letter of the 24th August. None of your Expresses have been here for two months before. I am happy when you are pleased 'to approve our proceedings particularly in Regard to Indians, and am convinced that if your principle was more generally adhered to in treating them we would not be long exposed to their Insolent contempt. The Impudence of the Six Nations has given us a handle to divide their Councils & I make no doubt but Sir Wm will improve the favourable dispositions of the Western Indians. He embarked on Lake Erie the 20th August for Detroit with 2 Subs & 60 Privates of the Garrison of Niagara. Major Gladwyn with the Light Infantry had embarked the 10th I hear that the R. A. are destined to garrison the French Posts upon Lake Huron & Michigan &c. Sir William purposed to pass at this Post on his way down. Lieut Meyer Ensign Pauly left this the 13th August having 30 oxen & 40 sheep all the cattle we had at that time. We are largely supplied since & obliged to keep a grass guard that we cannot well afford. Pay master Young acquaints me that there is not above Thirty men raised to compleat their Compy & no hope of getting more. I had sent five of their officers down to assist in recruiting, and bringing "them up as expeditiously as possible. As to the error you suspect in the Battoe men's Accounts I am sorry to say I cannot clear it here having no copys of them, as most of that service had been carry'd on before I came here, I had them -examined & settled by Clapham & rectified what mistakes I could per

Page 109


.COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON.

109

ceive. If I am permitted to go down or if you are pleased to send a copy here I'll endeavour to set that Article right. I received the General's order for the three contingent men which are complyd with. Mr. Demeler is given in orders as Lieut since the 13th July. I have not heard yet of Lieut Collins nor if Lieut Williams promoted in England is replaced. Captain Mather having been at this Post from the beginning of 1759 and long Indisposed begs the favour of a short leave of absence for private affairs & the recovery of his Health. The Magazine from Fort Burd being removed and Venango & Le Boeuf supply'd with one years provisions, I shall close the publick Accounts paid by you and Transmit them to you with the Vouchers. Remains to be paid the hire of the Pack Horses gone to Sandusky, and the carriage of Forage & Ammunition from Bedford and Ligonier. I shall now draw upon Nellson for the Balance & give him advice of every drauft. We have removed in the new store the large quantity of Flour in Bulk in the Casematte and weighed the whole, you will see by the Return of the effective quantity now here the considerable Loss of Flour damaged by dampness of the sides and Bottoms of every Store and Regularly Condemned. Besides which a large deficiency appears for which the commissary cannot account any other way than by wastage in weighing Issuing & Removing and as the quantity exceeds any reasonable allowance ought not the contractors to be charged with the over plus of said Deficiency. I have at last got a number of bags. The Flour in Bulk shall be some time hence removed in them as repeated airing & stirring are the most effeative ways to preserve it. No discovery has been made yet concerning the loss of our subsistence money, that heavy stroke having unhinged our finances. If it is not inconsistent with our service I would beg that Barnsley might stay at Philadelphia till I can go down to concert with him the necessary measures to repair that breach. 11th September I am sorry to have to inform you of a Tragical event this morning. D' James Milne was found dead in his bed having in a fit of melancholy cut his throat. The Court ordered to Inquire into the cause of his death having given their opinion Lunacy. His effects shall be secured I write to D' McLean about it, I had sent his mate Clarkson to Bedford for an accident happened there, and ordered him back: But as he is no way qualified to remain alone at the Post I beg you would



Page 110


110

BOUQUET PAPERS.

please Sir to order another to be sent here or to Niagara, if more convenient, in which case Dr Stevenson could be ordered to this Fort. I have the honour to be with great respect Your most obedient & most humble Servant (no sig) Endorsed: Copy of my Letter to Gent. Monckton 10th & 11th Sept 1761. [A 8, p 318] JAMES MCDONALD TO COL. HENRY BOQUET. DETROIT 18 Septr. 1761 SIR Agreeable to your orders I received my Commission as also the Dictionary you was pleased to favour me with. I am greatly obliged to you for the good offices done me & will always have a grateful sense thereof. If ever it should be in my power It will be a pleasure to me to give convincing proof of the obligation I owe you. I suppose Capt Campbell wrote you fully of all the Transactions which has happened here, therefore I will not trouble you with a repetition of the same. I wrote Col. James Grant & has drawn upon him for my commission, I took the liberty of desiring him to direct my Letter under cover to you, and hope you'll forgive that freedom. Sir William Johnson has gone off to day, Major Gladwin is in the way of recovery, as is Ensign Holmes who has been at the gates of Death. We expect Capt McLeod of the Light Infantry here soon from Niagara with Provisions of which essential Article we are very scarce at present. I have the hpnour to be very respectfully Sir Your much obliged & To most obedt. Servant Col. Bouquet JAMES MCDONALD [A 17, p 181] LIEUT. ELIAS MEYER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. (Translation.) LAKE SANDUSKY, SIR Sept 24th 1761 I returned here from Detroit on the 17th having been obliged to



Page 111


LIEUT. ELIAS MEYER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

wait four days for want of a batteau. Mr. Campbell has assisted me With a carpenter and a master and eight barrels of salt pork, as for flour he had none himself for he had to furnish four other posts besides he had orders from General Amherst that he was to have nothing to do with my post. Judge then Sir, in what position I will be soon if you do not help me very quickly. The inclosed papers will show you what I have received and what remains with me. We have lost five sheep by the dogs of the village chasing them into the woods, and after two days search by all the detachment (off guard) we recovered none from the wolves (which are in large numbers here) they have been devoured I believe. A man come here to day who has worked as a carpenter for the Beaver King at Tuscarawa, I have kept him here for the King's service, having great need of him. I have at present three carpenters and the promise of two others from Detroit in 15 days but I cannot count much on the latter. If I only had one or two masons and their provisions I do not doubt to be able to finish the Block house in one or two months from now. I pray you very earnestly my colonel to help me in my needs the more so as the General regards this post (as he expressed in one of his letters to Chevallier Johnson) as a post to keep the Canadians in check. The King's horse which I believed to be stolen by the Indians was brought back here by Mr. Phillips Boyle. All the deatchment is in perfect health we have had no sickness yet. It is not the same at Detroit Sir Major Gladwin and Ensign Holmes were at my departure at the point (of death) and they have 17 R. A. sick of the fever. If I had any ammunition, or any other trifles to give to the Indians for venison, I promise to subsist the detachment partly when the hunting begins which will be in fifteen days and the King would profit considerably. Sir Wm. Johnson, his son and Lt. Johnson arrived here at mid day from Detroit. They did us the honour of dining with us and left this evening for the Grand Lake. If you send any flour here, I pray you Sir to be good enough to give the order that they be good and that the bags are not like the last I received. They had for the most part a crust inside of two fingers in depth, and by the flour of which we could absolutely make no use we found ourselves 809 lbs too short.



Page 112


112

BOUQUET PAPERS.

The drummer has by accident broken his drum which is irrepairable, this is a great loss for by the works on which the workmen (are engaged) all day they are extremely scattered in the woods & it is extremely hard to assemble them without a drum. I have the honor to be with much respect Sir Your very humble and very obedient Servant ELIAS MEYER Lt. After having written this letter there arrived here for Mr. Phillip Boyle 494 H' of flour, and as he is here very seldom, I have made myself his debtor and have pit it in the magazine for the detachment. I hope Sir, that you will approve of the step I have taken. [A 17, p 193] MEMORANDUM FOR CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL. (Memo for Detroit.) 1 Fix a price for the Carcas of a Deer & other meat to be paid in Powder and Lead. (Sic) 2 Get from Mr. Navarre the Intendant's an exact account of the Wheat & Flour & leaving to the Inhabitants the necessary have the rest carried in the King's store to be paid at the rate agreed by Capt Campbell & the Inhabitants. 3 Indulge with guns those who will be most diligent in providing for the subsistence of the Troops. 4 Procure an account of the Powder & Lead among the Inhabitants, exclusive of the King's store, take it all in, giving Receipts to replace it in kind and employ it to purchase meat, allowing the Inhabitants who have the use of Guns a sufficient quantity thereof. 5 Keep the salt meat for the last. 6 Never give any Powder to the Indians but for meat. 4 7 Encourage the Inhabitants to raise corn & cattle for which they will have a good markett at Presqu Isle & Niagara. Send to meet Capt White on the N. Shore. Make the Rangers live upon the Provisions bought at Detroit to save theirs. 8 Send a good deal of ammunition to Michillimackinac and other distant Posts, as the best means to procure meat from the Indians. 9 If there are not Inhabitants at the Post I would recommend to engage a few grenadiers acquainted with the Place to winter there with the Garrison. [A 8, p 324]



Page 113


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO CAPT. MEYER.

CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO CAPT. MEYER. DR. SIR I received yours of the 1st instant. The Bullocks are come safe but short of what you estimated them at least for present use. You may remember I told you when you left this Place you was to expect noe assistance from me for Provisions. I doe not know what I wrote but I have had demands upon me since that time. I have however sent you 2 Barrils of Pork & one of flour, which is all I can doe for you, I have not one Barr'l of flour left behind, and for our misfortune there is noe Provisions at Niagara, soe you may easily imagine we shall be much put to, it this winter as I am to take possession of Ouiatanon. In short I cannot be in a worse situation for that article. I think you should apply to Collonel Bouquet without loss of time for more Bullocks, he writes me they are now well provided at Fort Pitt. In short you must not depend o4n any more assistance from me. There is one Boyle, a Sutler who was here, promised to undertake to bring a large quantity of flour to this Place. I think you should encourage him to that as much as possible. I have sent you the two Carpenters who will come in good time to you, noe accounts of the Vessel being in the Lake, she has but fifteen Barrils of flour on Board, and none at Niagara, a Poor Prospect for this Place and the Posts depending. I thank you for your newspapers I have used the freedom to forward them to Michilimakinac. I have sent a Batteau with the Rangers, which you will be pleased to return and one of the Canoes. I give you leave to keep one Canoe for the Service of your Garrison I have sent five men to bring back the Batteau and one Canoe. You should lose no time to inform Collonel Boquet of my incapacity to serve you I shall write the Difficulties I am likely to be at this Post, I shall be oblidged to apply to Fort Pitt if there comes no Provisions from Niagara. I am Dr Sir Your most obedient humble Servant To DONALD CAMPBELL Capt. Meyer Detroit Octr. 5th 1761 Send me the Sawyer so soon you are done with him. 15



Page 114


114

BOUQUET PAPERS.

(Translation.) The young ladies of Detroit send their compliments to the Commandant of Sandusky and hope to have the honour of dancing with him this winter. [A 17, p 225] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONOKTON. FORT PITT 5th October 1761 SIR I have the pleasure to inform you that Mr. Croghan is returned from Detroit, where Sir William Johnston has had a compleat Success in his General treaty with the Indians. The particulars of which you will have from those Gentlemen as there is no coppy of the Treaty here. At Mr. Croghan's Return I received your letter of the 5th July sent to Detroit by mistake, which has occasioned my writing to you for things already answered in that letter, containing likewise an order to send Cattle for the treaty at Detroit, and your most obliging leave of absence, of which at that time I could not have availed myself. I am disappointed in my expectation of flour from Detroit for the Detachment of Sandusky as Capt Campbell 'can hardly provide for his own post, owing to a bad crop. The Treaty and the numerous Escort, I have no horses to send flour to Lieut Meyer besides my reluctance to engage in that monstrous expence which I think might have been lessened by supplies from Niagara, But I must do what I can to assist them with some flour and powder to buy meat of the Indians, as soon as I can provide a few Horses. Mr. Croghan informs me that the Post is building on the most advantageous and convenient situation of the little Lake. Sir William has sent me the enclosed Regulations for the Trade at this place which I have published. Having given advice to Mr. Nelson agreeable to your orders of my Drafts upon him for the Contingent Expenses of the department he writes me in date of the 24th September that he could not pay them without your orders. I hope he has given you timely information of it to prevent the shock our credit would receive from a Protest, in my last to Mr. Hamilton I transmitted to you the Accounts & Vouchers. Col. Burd's Battalion of Pennsylvania Troops having been reduced and himself continued in that Service only as Captain of the Company stationed at Fort Augusta and having no other commission this year,



Page 115


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. ROBERT MONCKTON.

115

I know it is a doubt with our Captains whether he is to take Rank from his former commission. I have mentioned to none of them your orders to me, (in the above letter of the 5th July,) to leave the command with him if I had gone down, which order shall be obeyed in case I should be permitted to leave this Post, But I thought it would not be improper to inform you of that circumstance. A deserter from Fort Charles upon the Illinois is arrived here, having been one year in the woods, he is Acadion, his name Colliet has travelled from Fort L'Assumption to Fort Loudoun in the upper Cherokee, says that Ianassee River is navigable 40 Leagues to the falls from whence they have 40 more to the Fort, a good path for horses, and the hills not very high, I'll send him to you the first opportunity. I am informed by my last letter from London that the Act of Parliament concerning the admission of certain number of foreigners in the R. A. R. is to be taken in consideration in the session of Decem- ber next. that there is some room to hope we might obtain the naturalization. But that a recommendation from General Amherst would have a great weight. And as at this distance, and in the present cir- ` cumstances I might take a very improper time to make that request to the General I must again take the liberty to apply to you for a word in our favour To His Excellency. The Naturalization would in every respect be of the greatest advantage to us, and particularly to those officers, who have been obliged by the necessity of the service or other causes to go out of the former limits of the Colonies, and cannot even avail themselves of the Act passed in the 13th of George the second, requiring seven years continued Residence &c. Inclosed are the Returns for September and my answer to the General concerning the Negro lefft here by Major Rogers, which I beg you would be pleased to forward if necessary. I am with great respect Sir Your most obedient and most humble servant (no sig) P. S. Captain Gordon informs me that he cannot pay us before the cord wood for the use of the Hospital Guards Bakers & Barracks next winter the men being continually at work they can hardly provide themselves with fuel & the wood already so far off, that after the rivers are frozen it cannot be carried to the Fort unless a magazine is formed before hand. I beg orders thereupon. Copy of my letter to General Monokton 5th Ootober 1761. [A 8, p 329], * -*' ^



Page 116


116

BOUQUET PAPERS.

CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 12th Octbbr. 1761. SIR I had the honor to receive your Letter a few days agoe, I wrote you by Mr. Crochan and sent a Return of the Company and Detachment, and the destination of the different Posts, I now send one to Mr. Potts the most satisfactory we could make out. I wrote you in my last how much I was distressed for want of every thing and how little it was in my Power to doe for Mr. Meyer, I have sent him ten Barrils of Pork and one of flour, which is all I can give him, if there does not come Provisions from Niagara. There is noe account of the Vessel being come out of the River, she is chiefly loaded with Pork, there is no flour at Niagara, they expect it by the way of Oswegatchie. The Country can furnish us but little this year. Soe I shall have much trouble to subsist the Garrison and to add to our Misfortune the General disapproves of Major Walters sending the last ammunition he forwarded me. 'I designed to send a large quantity of ammunition to the Posts of Miamis St Josephs and Ouiatanon for the subsistence of the Garrison as the Transportation of Provisions is soe difficult. this I cannot doe as I could wish for want Ammunition. I wait for an Officer from Niagara to send off the Garrison of Ouiatqnon, if the Major does send one I shall be oblidged to have a Serjeant at Miamis which is not the General Intentions surely that these Posts should be commanded by a Serjeant. There is a Detachment of the light Infantry returned from Michilimakinac, Lieut Leslye writes me they arrived just in time to save the Traders from the Indians who threatened to destroy them. We have got Peaceable Possession of the Fort, and every thing is now quiet, tho I am certain if the Indians knew General Amherst sentiments about keeping them short of Powder it would be impossible to keep them in temper. Capt Balfour has proceeded with a Detachment of the light Infantry to take Possession of the Posts of the Bay and St Josephs. None of the men applyed for their times soe that I imagine they were not entitled to their discharges. Major Gladwin is now recovered of his Illness and leaves this place to morrow to return to fort William Augustus. I am afraid we shall not pass soe good a winter as we did ye last, we are but indifferently provided of stores. we had a great crowd of strangers of late, I can



Page 117


LIEUT. ELIAS MEYER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

117

never too much acknowledge your attention to-.me since I have been at this place. My compliments to all the Gentlemen. JIam Sir with greatest Respect your most obedient humble servant DONALD CAMPBELL Lieut Butler of the Rangers sent his detachment to Sandusky to goe by Fort Pitt, he is still here himself detained by business. If you could to send us some ammunition it would be doing a good thing tho it is against the Generals orders. The money that circulated amongst the Traders seems to have disappeared soe you will be pleased to order Capt Barnsley to send some by the first safe opportunity. D.C. Endorsed: Captain Campbell Detroit 12th October Received 1st November 1761 Answered the 4th do 1761 TheSmith's Tools provided for. [A 17, p 238] LIEUT. ELIAS MEYER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. (Translation) CAMP AT LAKE SANDUSKY SIR, October 12th 1761. Last night the party which I sent to Detroit returned with two barrels of pork and one of flour, that is all Sir that I can get from Mr. Campbell, this little help is not of much consequence to my detachment but I cannot yet resolve to give a ivhole ration since I' have no notice of immediate help from you. My men are however well disposed but I can easily see that they are not capable of performing their work with their accustomed vigor though they do not say so. The' two carpenters that Captain Campbell promised to send me have at last arrived here after repeated and frequent requests.



Page 118


118

BOUQUET P*PERS.

I send you Mr. Campbell's letter so that you can see Sir, how this Post depends on Detroit and in what need they are themselves. I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Your very humble and very obedient Servant ELIAS MEYER. [A 17, p 241] LIEUT. EDWARD JENKINS TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT, Nov. 4th 1761. HONOURED SIR Your kind Letter of the 15th of Oct. I received at Presqu' Isle and forwarded the part which concerned the other two gentlemen by Capt Cochrane, who will I dare say do all in his Power to get matters settled agreeable to both parties. I wish your letter had arrived at Niagara before I left it, that I might have made an acknowledgment in Person, but 1 have endeavoured to follow your good directions by acquainting him that you (in answer to our Letter) had wrote to us that we were in the wrong, and beg'd we wou'd make up matters agreeable to him, at the same time acknowledged that we were in the wrong and beg'd his forgiveness, and I assure you if I had stayed at Niagara, I wou'd have done all in my Power to have made everything agreeable to the Major for I am convinced tlat he has too much good nature to do the things that were done at Niagara, without being advised by somebody who I suppose was tired of so long a Peace. I shall set of to morrow for a Fort called Wawiachtas in the Map, but the people here call it Ouiatanon and in case you want any Indian curiosities that is to be got there if you'll only be good enough to let * me know and you may depend upon getting them the first opportunity. Some time ago I was in hopes of seeing you and the rest of my Friends at Fort Pitt, but now have given over all hopes till a peace, and perhaps I shan't have the pleasure then if the Regiment is not broke. As I must pack up to set of to morrow, you'll excuse this short scrawl, and as there is no news here I shall only beg you'll accept of my most sincere thanks for your kindness to me, and be assured



Page 119


DR. GEO. CHR. ANTHONY TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

119

nothing shall ever make me forget the obligations your goodness hath conferred on Sir Your much obliged & sincere humble Servant EDWd JENKINS Endorsed: Addressed to Col. Bouquet. Letter from Lieut Jenkins 4th Nov. Received the 26th 1761 [A 17, p 268] DR. GEO. CHR. ANTHONY TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT DETROIT SIR Novemb' ye 7th 1761 I do myself the honour of writing these few Linnes to you, in acquainting you of my situation here without medicines, as I have had no supply since I am here except the few particuls you was pleased to order me from the general hospital last Spring, and who were almost spoiled coming over the Lake. Dr. Stevenson has promised to send me a supply, but as his are not yet arrived it is impossible to expect any from him this winter, I was obliged to send as many as I could spare to the several posts, which has my stok entirely exhausted, and shall be very badly of as the- season prouves much to sickness now likewise am daily troubled with the Indians to attend their sick, beg also that you will be as good to order me these few things mentioned of inclosed. Capt. Campbell was as good to acquaint me that he had solicited for me a voluntier in the Battn by you, I shall take it as a particular favour if you will be pleased to grand it further. remain with the greatest respect Sir Your most obedient and humble servant GEO. CHR. ANTHONY M. D. Endorsed: Addressed To Colonel Bouquet Commanding His Majesty's Forces at Fort Pitt Dr. Anthony Detroit 8th Nov. Received the 26th do. Answered the 4th Deer. [A 17, p 279]



Page 120


120

BOUQUET PAPERS.

CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT SIR. 8th November 1761 I wrote you lately by Mr. Taaffe the Trader. I have only had in my Power to supply Lieut Meyer with ten Barrils of Pork & one flour. Major Walters writes me they despair of the vessels getting in to the lake this season, which is a great disappointment to this Post. I have received forty Barrils of flour by two Batteaus I sent to Niagara and I expect more Provisions by three battoes I sent about ten days agoe. I am hopefull they will still return this season. The is but very little flour to be had in the country this year. I have detached Lieut Jenkins to take Possession of the Post of Ouiatanon the 6th Instant with twenty men and could only send four months Provisions with him. I have purchased indian corn at Miamis for that Garrison and Ouiatanon soe that we shall be in the same want of Provisions as last year. I dayly expect Capt Balfour with the Detachment of light Infantry who is gone to the Bay & returns by St. Joseph's, if he cannot return by water, I shall send him by Fort Pitt. I have inclosed you a Letter for General Amherst which you will be pleased to forward by the first opportunity. I have sent you Returns of the Company and Detachment. I beg leave to recommend the Bearer Lieut Butler of the Rangers to your notice. I am in greatest want of Ammunition and the Traders here have but very little, which I am affraid will have a very bad effect with the Indians. I would purchase it at my own expense if there was a possibility of sending any from Fort Pitt this winter. I am with Respect your most obedient humble servant DONALD CAMPBELL P. S. If General Amherst is gone on the expedition you'll please forward his Letter to the Commander-in-Chief. A supply of money would be necessary. There is only what came for the payment of the Troops, that has circulated, now it seems to have disappeared at present. Endorsed: Capt. Campboll 8th Nov. 17t. Received the 25th by Lieut. Butler. Answd the 4th Dec. by Howry. [A 17, p 277]



Page 121


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. 121 CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT, 28th Nov. 1761 SIR I was favoured with yours dated the 10th of October with the three Barrels of Powder which you have been so good as send us. It came at a very seasonable time, as there was none in store when it arrived. I wrote you & sent Returns by Lieut Buttler of the Rangers, since that time there is no change happened and therefore shall not trouble you with any Returns now. I am sorry Capt Barnsley has not returned with the money. It is a great disappointment as there is very little to be had here. And the method you proposed must be attended with a deale of inconveniency and risque. However I shall do my best. The vessel is now Dispaired of here and all our dependans on three Batteaux from Niagara which we expect Daily. So that there will be the same difficulty in supporting the Troops as last winter. The Surviell you mention was brought here in May last by Lieut Leslye in his return from Niagara but the Boat was entirely Destroyed by the Indians. Capt. Balfour arrived the 22d Inst from St. Joseph's and has sett off for Niagara Lieut Brehm will give you a full acct. of their long voyage & which I refer you. I was sorry it was not in my power to supply the post of Sandusky with Provisions. You may very believe had it been in my power I should willingly comply with your request being sensible of the great attention you have had for the continuell supply of this Post. All the Indian Nations have gone to their Hunting and by that means will be quiet here till Spring. I hope the Gen" will change his present way of thinking with Regard to Indian affairs. As I am of oppinion if they were supplyed with ammunition it would prevent their doing mischief. I am with the greatest respect and esteem, Sir Your most obedt. humble Servt. DONALD CAMPBELL Endorsed: Capt Campbell 28th Nov. Received 26th Dec 1761 Answered the - --- [A 17, p 304] 16



Page 122


122

BOUQUET PAPERS.

LIEUT. ELIAS MEYER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT SANDUSKY, the 29th Nov. 1761 SIR The lowest price for an egg at Detroit is three ecus * & a bushel of wheat twenty shillings. I sent on the 17th three barrels of powder to Capt Campbell and I am obliged to send the Grenadier Cant to Detroit with Mr. Spear to be cured of the small pox. There are besides the grenadier the drummer and another sick. I have the honour to be Sir Your very humble & very obedient servant ELIAS MEYER, Lt. To Col Bouquet. COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT SIR, 2d December 1761. I have the honour to enclose to your Excellency a Letter from.Captain Campbell, and the returns for October and November, in the supposition that General Monckton has lefft New York. The time for which the Penns' Troops were raised being expired the 25th Nov. I required them to wait a few days for your orders, but they all deserted to 60, who march to morrow with my leave as they would not stay another day. I have sent one corporal, & Four of the R. A. to Juniatta. One Serjeant and six to Capt. Ourry at Bedford. Two men to Stoney Creek. One Serjt, one corporal and six to Lieut Blane at Ligonier, and one Serjt and two men at Bushy Run. The Block house at Sandusky is finished, I have had no orders for the Garrison to be lefft in it, and Lieut Meyer & Ensign Pauly remain yet there with 30 men. As they could not be supplied with Provisions from Detroit, I have sent them Flour from time to time, and they buy meat of the Indians. They will have flour lefft for about 12 or 15 men till the Spring, but it would be attended with much difficulty and expence to supply a greater number from this Fort. * ecus-a piece of money.



Page 123


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

123

Presqu' Isle will also be in want of Provisions if they have not had a supply from Niagara since the 2d November. The Cloathing for this Part of the Battalion is not yet come up, & the road over the mountains being now impracticable for waggons, I shall endeavour to get it carried upon Horses from Bedford. I have the honour to be with a profound Respect Sir Your most obedt & most Humble Servant HENRY BOUQUET. His Excellency General Amherst. I beg leave to inclose the Resignation of Lieut Rolfe, whom I had mentioned before to Genl. Monckton, and as the Reasons I had at that time to desire he might obtain leave of absence subsist no longer, I shall be obliged to Your Excellency to permit him to sell his commission which he has purchased. If a person is wanted to purchase the Ensigncy I take the Liberty to recommend Mr. Thomas Hutchins an intelligent active young man, formerly Lieutenant in the Pensilvania Troops, at present here. Endorsed: To General Amherst 2d December 1761. COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEPFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT 25th December SIR 1761 I had yesterday by the Express Fleming a Letter from Sir John St. Clair, with a Paragraph from Messrs. Plumsted and Franks Letter to him, and your Excellency's answer thereupon: It is true that the Contractors have lately paid for Cooperage, and some other Articles, which are commonly paid for by the Quarter Master General, where there is one employed. But they never have made Disbursements for the Engineers or any other Branch not immediately connected with the Provisions, as will appear by the Inclosed Abstract of the Charge they complain of. I am not acquainted with General Monckton's motives for altering the former method of paying the contingent Expences of this Department. SWhen I returned from Presqu' Isle the 24th of November 1760, I received his orders to settle and pay such accounts as could not have been closed before, and having drawn for the amount upon Sir John St. Clair as concerning his Department and informed the General of it. He ordered me to draw for the Contingent Expenses upon Nelson who had his orders to answer my Bills.



Page 124


124

BOUQUET PAPERS

I have paid them since and from time to time transmitted the Accounts and Vouchers to the General. At the beginning of Sept last Nelson refused some of my Bills, having no more Money in his Hands for that Service & those Bills coming back upon me unpaid, I could draw no longer and was obliged to direct the contractor's agent to draw from that time upon them for what concerned in any shapetheir Branch, & I signed every account to prevent errors. I closed then my own account & sent them with the Vouchers to the General the 19th September by Mr. Hamilton (one of the contractor's Agents the first safe opportunity I had) & begged he would order Nelson to pay the Balance due amounting to ~9384-4sh Pennso Curry. I had no answer to that Letter nor to another on the same subject of the 5th October. The last I received from General Monckton is of the 7th October & contains only an order for Capt. Gordon to go down; As I can have no doubt that those Accounts & Vouchers are at New York I must beg Your Excellency would order them to be examined-and the Ballance due paid to Capt Barnsley as it is money I borrowed here and that you would be pleased to direct who is to pay the several Expenses occurred since for Carriage of Provisions to Sandusky, & Powder and Forage from Bedford & Red Stone Creek. The accounts of which are not yet all come in. And as I have long ago represented to General Monckton how inconvenient it was for me, without money, clerk or any assistance whatever, to have that additional detail Permit me Sir, to submit it to your consideration, if it would not be more proper to leave it to the Quarter Master General since I see him continued in this Department, who could either come himself or send some Person to transact his Business upon the Spot, which it is no more in my Power to do, as nobody would take a bill from me for a shilling after those that have been protested for Services done by the General's orders. After waiting to the last for some Directions from General Moncktdn, I have taken upon me to leave only an officer and 15 men at Sandusky, & ordered the rest back to this Post. I have the honour to be with a profound Respect Sir Your most obedt and most humble Servt HENRY BOUQUET. His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst.



Page 125


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

125

The 28th December 1761. P. S. Since writing my Letter of the 25th Lieut Wuyamoz of the Light Infantry arrived here, & informed me that Captain Balfour with a party of 40 men having found it impossible to get to Niagara by Land or Water, had fallen back upon Sandusky and were coming to this Post, but could not cross Beaver Creek about 25 below this Fort, & had no Provisions. With much difficulty I got over the River which is full of Ice some flour & sent them four Horses; They are this moment arrived & I have detained the Express on that account. They shall continue their march for Philad" as soon as the men they have left sick behind can be brought here. An Express is likewise arrived from Presqu' Isle frost bitt with Letters from Niagara of the 21st Novr & of the Upper Posts; The two Battoes loaded with Flour from Niagara to Presqu' Isle were lost the 5th December about fourteen miles from the last Post, The men & greater part of the Provisions saved; as they had only those two Battoes fit for use they are at a loss to get those Provisions in: I write to Capt. Schlosser to try Sleighs or any other practicable method, but if after all he should be short of Provisions to keep only as many men at Presqu' Isle as he can subsist to the 15th of May & send the rest to Le Boeuf where they can spare some flour with orders to proceed to this Post as soon as the weather will permit. As Sandusky could not be supplied as expected from Detroit, I sent to that Post the 8th Nov' 36 Bags of flour, which is arrived, But the Horses employed have perished in the snow in coming back. The Traders have likewise lost allmost all theirs. That communication was open all last Winter. By my Letters from Niagara & Detroit they are in want of Provisions at both Posts. I am sorry to have so many bad accounts to transmit to your Excellency I hope they will be the last of that kind as these Posts will easily be supplied next year at proper seasons. I am &c. endorsed: To General Amherst the 25th & 28th December 1761. [A 4, p 71] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 31st December SIR 1761. Lieut Butler arrived here yesterday, and delivered me the favor of your Letter of the 2d Instant with its several Enclosures. The Behaviour of the Provincials does not surprise me: It is gener

Page 126


126

BOUQUET PAPERS.

ally their way on such occasions. I approve of the Detachments you have sent to the several posts, and am glad to hear that the Blockhouse at Sandusky is finished; As General Monckton left no particular orders for the Garrison of it I would have you leave only an officer and Fifteen men, which are full sufficient at any time for a Block house, and as the Difficulty of getting up Provisions is great, it is still more necessary to Diminish the number of men posted there. Major Walters writes me the 25th October that he had sent off Twenty Barrels of Flour for Presqu' Isle on the 22d of that month, which I suppose had not got there on the 2d November, but I am hopefull, will have arrived safe soon after. The want of proper supplies have been entirely owing to the lateness of the arrival of the Provisions in the River St. Lawrence; but measures will be taken as early in the Spring as possible for sending ample supplys to all the Posts to the Westward; and till then the several Garrison must do the best they can with what has been already forwarded. You did very right to Endeavor to get up the Cloathing, as this is the Season when the men stand most in need of their cloaths, and I hope they will have arrived in good time. I shall agree to Lieut Ralfe's request to sell out, but as the only two Ensigns belonging to the Royal Americans who had Delivered in their names as purchasers are gone on the expedition, and that probably the Service they are now on, may have altered their minds, I must desire you will send me the name of the Eldest Ensign in the First Battalion willing to Purchase; and if there are none elder than he, belonging to the other Battallions who choose to purchase, I shall grant him a commission accordingly, and at the same time fill up the Ensigncy in favor of Mr. Thomas Hutchins, whom you recommend to that succession. Mr. Croghan who arrived here a few days ago is gone with his accompts to Sir William Johnson & will soon Return here in order to have them settled, after which he will immediately set out for Fort Pitt. I Herewith enclose you some Dispatches for Captain Campbell which you will please to forward to the Detroit, in the best manner you can. I am Sir Your most obedient Servant JEFF: AMHERST Col. Bouquet; or officer Commanding at Fort Pitt Endorsed: Letter from General Amherst 31st Dec. 1761. Received the 2d Feb'y. Answered the 3d do by Lient Brehm. [A 4, p 76]



Page 127


T. D. HAMBAK TO COL, HENRY BOUQUET. 127 T. D. HAMBACK TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT DETROIT Jany. 7th HONOURED SIR 1762 In my last Letter which has been lost by the Express I inform'd your honour that I ordered my- correspondent at Detroit to transmit some of Capt. Campbel's Bills to your hands, in order to pay Mr. Lunon. But I have reed since a Letter of Mr. Mitchel that it has been done already. I arrived here the 2d of this inst. from St. Joseph, where I might have made a better hand, if Mr. Schlosser had not been so much against me. I have taken some goods from Mr. Callender to try an other to St. Joseph, and if possible I intended to be down in the fall. I have entirely finished the sale of the first cargo, and hope to come clear off, I haven't made not one Martin in my Furrs this winter and am extremely sorry I cant satisfie your Honour in this article for the Present Time. I am with profound Respect, Sir your Honours most humble, most obedient Servant T. D. HAMBACK. To Col. Bouquet. [A 18-1, p 215] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK SIR 16th Jany. 1762 I acquainted you in my last, that Mr. Croghan was gone to Sir Win. Johnson with his accompts, in order to have them inspected by Sir William. This I thought necessary, before I ordered payment, since they amounted to upwards of A~4,400 Pennsylvania Currency; a prodigeous expence to be incurred solely on account of the Indians in the Southern Department; and that besides very large Disbursements of the same nature, have been Laid before me, by Captain Campbell, and Lieut Butler. I have, however from the Reasons Sir William Johnson urges of the necessity there was of incurring these Expences, granted a Warrant to Mr. Croghan, for the Amount of his Accomps; but I must particularly recommend it to you to be very sparing in your orders, for presents



Page 128


128

BOUQUET PAPERS.

to the Indians, for the future: And as Sir William in his. instructions to Mr. Croghan Directs him to Retrench the Expences of his Department, and not to Incurr any Extraordinary Articles, but what may be ordered by the officers commanding at the Posts, I have only to Desire, that you will be carefull not to give any Orders but on such Occasions, and for such Services, as may appear to be absolutely hecessary. And as the fatal Effects of Allowing Rum to be carried by the Indian Traders, appear in the same Light to Sir William Johnson, as I have often Represented, to be productive of much mischief & of no service to the Indians; he assures me, that in the passes he has lately granted, Rum and Spirituous Liquors are forbid; In mine they were always prohibited; and therefore I send orders to the officers commanding at the Several Posts, not to permit any of these pernicious articles to pass on any account whatsoever: you will please to observe the same orders at Pittsburgh, and Direct the officers commanding at the several Posts in your Department, strictly to abide thereby; for I am determined to put a stop to a Trade so Destructive to the Indians themselves, and the means of creating a heavy, and very useless Expence to the Crowns. By the Vulture, just arrived here from England, with the Cloathing for several of the Regiments I received a Box containing Letters for the Army in this Country &. have ordered them to be sorted, & those 'for the Battalion under your Command to be delivered to Mr. Croghan, who is likewise the Bearer of this Letter. I am Sir Your most obedient Servant JEFF: AMHERST. Colonel Bouquet, or officer Commanding at Fort Pitt. endorsed: General Amherst 16th Janry. 1762. Received the 16th Febry Answ'd the 7th March [A 4, p 83] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST'S ORDERS TO SAMPSON FLEMING. By His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst Knight, of the most Honorable Order of the Bath, Major General, and Commander in Chief of all His Majesty's forces in America &ca &ca &ca. The Bearer hereof Mr Sampson Fleming, appointed Deputy Commissary of Stores and Provisions at the Detroit is to Proceed from hence, by the Route of Pittsburgh, the officers commanding at the several



Page 129


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOl jET.

129

Posts on the communication giving him any assistance he may want for pursuing his Journey; and on his arrival at Pittsburgh Colonel Bouquet or the officer commanding there will forward him and what Baggage he may have in the most expeditious manner the season will permit as his presence at Detroit is very necessary, Mr. Fleming on his arrival at the Detroit will Deliver the letter herewith to Capt. Campbell or officer commanding at that Post, and follow and obey such further orders as he may receive from him. Given under my hand at Head Quarters in New York this 5th day of Feby 1762. By His Excellency's command. endorsed: General Amherst orders to Mr. Fleming going a commissary to the Detroit dated 5th Feby 1762, produced at Fort Pitt the 10th April following. CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT, 10th February SIR 1762. I had the honour to receive both your Letters of the 4th Nov. and December, I sent this express off about twelve days agoe but he had the misfortune to lose the Packet of Letters in a River near Sandusky. I am sorry to acquaint you we are entirely disappointed of flour from Niagara, I sent three Batteaus very late in the season which were loaded with' Pork, but they are froze up in the Lake half way between this and Niagara, Major Walters had but two months for his Garrison, however at my earnest Request, he has sent me two Barrils of Powder and some Ball. I shall have more Difficulty to support my Garrison than I had last year. I have now but twelve Barrils of flour in Store & very little flour or Indian corn to be had, and all the out Posts expect to be supply'd early in the Spring. You see my situation is not much to be envy'd. I received the Powder you mention, I can never too much thank you, for your care and attention in supplying this Post. I am sorry you cannot supply us with more ammunition from the King's Stores, I am glad you encourage the Traders to send large quantity's of ammunition to the different Posts, I would not choose to have it sent on my Risk, but rather purchase it from the Traders, if the necessity of the Service Requires it, but I shall be highly obliged to you to encourage the Traders that come by the of Fort Pitt to bring what ammunition they can. I have wrote General Monckton in 17



Page 130


130 q BOUQUET PAPERS. the most pressing terms the necessity there is of supplying the different Posts with ammunition I am certain nothing would alarm the Indians sooner than if they knew we had any design to keep them scarce of any ammunition, I hope the General has changed his Sentiments on this article. I have sent you Returns of the company and detachment which I hope will please. Be pleased to forward the General's Letter by the first opportunity and one to the Post Master of New York which contains Letters to some of my great Friends in England who are now in the first employments in the State. I am at too great a Distance to reap the advantage of their great Power. We are in great want of money as the little Cash that circulates has disappeared but I doe not think it prudent to risk sending any with this express, tho' he is a very faithful Indian. He brought a piece of Intelligence from Sandusky that the Shawanese had brought in some Scalps from Virginia, and that the Six Nations were still contriving mischief. I desired him to get all the Intelligence he could in passing through the Indian Towns and inform you of it, he is very intelligent & speaks good French. The Indians are very importuning to the officers at the Out Posts and threaten them. As you have seen Capt Balfour and Mr. Brehm you have got the history of their Travels. I shall apply to Mr. Leslye and Gorril for the Peltry you mention. I have a Beaver Blanket for you which I neglected sending last season. I should think there is no necessity for sending merchandise to purchase it, as its impossible to know what the Indians would choose and that goods are very cheap at Michillimackinac. Pour ce que nous regarde nous passous bien notre Temps notre Societe' est beaucoup augmente pou L'arrive de Chevalier Daverret et Lieut Mac Dougal de Niagara, le premier est non Je ure Seignior Anglois de plus accomplis il a fit ces etudes a Lausaure, et apres voyage' par toute 1'Europe il passe l'hiver avec nous, il doit voir les lacs au pimtemps Je vous surs infirement oblige' pour la Gazette. My compliments to all your gentlemen and I am With the greatest Respect DONALD CAMPBELL. Endorsed: Capt. Campbell 10th Feby 1762 Received the 3d March. Answered the 5th. [A 18-1, p 30]



Page 131


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

131

COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT SIR 7th March 1762. My bad state of health has hindered me acknowledg sooner your Excell. Letters of the 9th December 16th 21st & 31st Jany. which I shall now 'have the honour to answer agreable to their dates. Lieut John Ormsby Donnellan is given in orders as succeeding Lieut Geo. Collins gone upon his half pay. Mr. Croghan is not yet arrived, but has sent his Letters. The account he has produced was indeed a heavy one; The alteration of the times, and the precise orders given him; will greatly reduce those Expenses hereafter, provided such articles only be allowed in' future accounts as can be supported by the commanding officers written orders. For four months past, we have had a tolerable concourse of Indians, Prisoners deliver'd, nacked to cloath, & little services to be paid: nevertheless the total expence to the day does not exceed ~30-Exclusive of a small quantity of Powder & Lead, which may be replaced hereafter in kind to the Traders. Since I am here, I have permitted no strong liquors to be sold given or carried to the Indians, your orders thereupon shall be strictly obeid, and sent to all the Posts in this Department. Niagara was said to be the great Inlett & still some will be carried thro' the woods, as the Traders engaged in that Illicite Trade, know the Country, avoid the Posts and assisted by the Indians cannot easily be discovered. We expect soon Coll. Eyre, and I hope his report will satisfy you, that tho' this Fort is liable to be overflowed, it cannot be endangered by it, if it could be reveted & had magazines above ground, using only the casemattes in case of need. Those Floods must happen seldom, the oldest Indian not remembering any so high. We have lost 16218 lb of Flour damaged & pondemned. The rest of the Provisions and Stores are safe. I have got up a sufficient quantity of Salt tho' I had no answer yet from the contractors. All the Flour has been aired & shiffted the greatest loss is the powder, of which the saltpeter may be extracted, and be of use or sold. I had two days ago an Indian Express from Detroit with the



Page 132


132

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Inclosed, and was Informed by him that a Party of Shawanese had lately taken four English Scalps on the frontiers of Virg" or Nh Carolina which was confirmed this day by the three Traders coming from the lower Shawanese Town, who say that the rest of that nation are very peaceable and have expressed great discontent and uneasiness at those scalps. I shall take no notice of this first break of the Peace, till I receive your orders upon the satisfaction you will be pleased to require. His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst. endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Genl. Amherst 7th March 1762 by Gipson [A 4, p 110] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT the 30th March 1762 SIR Your Excellency's letter of the 10th ultimo, was delivered to me the 27th Instant by Coll. Eyre, I have given him every light in my power to enable him to make a full report of -the Actual State of this Fort & environs. Colonel Prevost is given in orders as Colonel commandant of this Battalion, in the room of Major General Stanwix. I shall observe on Mr. commissary Lake's remarks. 1st. That if the Issuers of provisions in this Department have neglected to Transmit to him or his deputy, the monthly returns of provisions, it is his own fault, for not giving his orders to the contractors to have it done. I direct them to be more punctual for the future. 2nd. All the provisions sent from hence to the Upper Posts are Regularly accounted for, and the wild meat purchased on account of the Crown; I pass receipts to the Contractors for the Effective Quantitys of Flour and Meat Issued here by them for these Garrisons, and not for the number of Rations issued at those Posts, as Mr. Lake might have observed in my certificates. 3rd. His Remark concerning the Provisions drawn by the Women of this Battalion, may be just, as it is not possible for me in Extensive dispertion of our men, to be as minutely exact as I would wish. But I write to the Contractors to send me an exact list of those women, and in the mean time to reduce them to half allowance, till I



Page 133


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

133

can know their number and not exceed in the whole three for each company. The only order we have had concerning the allowance of those Rations was given by Lord Loudown for six women per company of a 100 and. we never receiv'd the General one refer'd to in your letter; which shall be fully obeyed. I am sorry to be obliged to represent that this Battal having been formed in America by Recruits inlisted for a Limited time from one to four years, and having had very few Draffts, many of those men are Intitled to their Discharges, and some have served one and two years beyond their time, and tho' I cannot ascertain at present their number it must be considerable, and those we have here begin to be very anxious for their Discharges. I have done every thing in my power to keep them quiet but as I suppose from the many applications I have had that they are still more uneasy at the distant posts, I thought it absolutely necessary to beg the favour of your orders thereupon. Being now compleat we have no fund to recruit, and could replace a man immediately if discharged. And tho' this may be perhaps an improper time, permit me Sir to submit most respectfully for your consideration. That this is the Sixth year this Battalion has been continued in this Department and has not been together since the beginning of 1757. That the expense accruing from the Land carriage of necessarys falls very heavy on officers and men in this Department, no allowance being made on that account, nor Baggage and Forage money paid for the Campaign 1761, tbo' we provided, agreeable to orders, our Camp Equipage. And that having neither offcers or men to relieve those station'd at the most Distant Posts, where they must have suffered much last winter, I am at a loss how to supply them with money and necessarys if they are to remain there another year. I am informed that the magazines of Provisions at Ligonier and Bedford suffer considerably from Damp, and a prodigious encrease of Rats. The few men I could spare for those Posts, being not sufficient to shift and air the Barrels. As I know nothing material to be done at this post at present, if you think proper I might go to see those stores, and Judge what can be done to Preserve them, and as the Country People settled about Bedford may want Flour, should you approve of it, some might be sold or lent them, to be replaced in kind after their crop.



Page 134


BOUQUET PAPERS

Mr. Croghan arrived here the 16th Instant, and having acquainted him with my orders relating to the reduction of Indian Expenses, he wrote me the Inclos'd. There may be yet between two and three Hundred of our People, prisoners amongst the Indians, which they have promis'd to deliver this Spring. General Monckton had authorized me to give them some presents on those occasions, but from the high price of goods purchas'd here I find the smallest present comes about ~5 and at the same time appear to me unavoidable. I had orders likewise to give sparingly some Powder & Lead to the Indians going to war to the northward, which has been a constant practice in this continent, but the circumstances being altered, I beg the favour of your Orders on those two Articles, that I do not exceed your Intentions. To save Expences I write to Capt Campbell to give a Battoe and four of his men, with some Tobaco to the agent sent to visit the Western Indians by order of Sir William Johnston; I shall supply him here with Wampum, for his speeches, and spare him Flour from Sandusky. I shall not permit any material part of that service to be cramped by an Ill Judged Parsimony, but use with discretion of the Latitude you have been pleased to give me. I receive this moment letters from Presqu' Isle, Le Boeuf, Venango and Sandusky, all is well there. As soon as I receive the returns from Bedford shall send them with the rest. I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Your most obedient and most Humble Servant His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst. endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Sir Jeffery Amherst 30th March 1762 by Coll Eyre. [A 4, p 115J COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN JEFFERY AMHERST. FOnT PITT 1st April 1762. SIR, This day, two hours after Coll. Eyre had lefft this Place, I received your Excellency's Letters of the 28th Feby and 2d of March Convinced



Page 135


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

135

by my own experience in this in considerable part of your extensive command, of the multiplicity of affairs that must devolve upon you from the whole; I have avoided troubling you with a minute account of all the triffling events that occur daily here, in which number I must class Mr. Fanquier's Letter to me, as I thought it intirely groundless, and expected that my answer would have been fully satisfactory to him. As I know of no legal Title People can have to settle Indian Lands, but wh'at must be derived from the Powers given by the Crown to the Commander in Chief, or the Governors of Provinces, I imagined to have obviated all evils by the Exceptions I had made. Neither could I think that the Lieut. Governor of Virginia after desiring me to explain my Intentions in issuing that order, should complain to you before he had received that explanation. For certainly his Letter to me in that case was an unnecessary trouble to himself, and his express a useless Expence to the Publick. I take the Liberty to inclose a copy of the answer I made him at that time. I never had any:design to obstruct any man's Just Rights, or give uneasiness to any body and much less to a respectable Colony. After having found every other method insufficient I thought the fear of Punishment would deter the Outlaws, who were the only Persons I had in View, from their vile practices, but tho' some are since fallen in my hands, they have suffered no other molestation than to be expelled from their Improvements, and have their Huts burnt and they seem at last disgusted from making new attempts as they know that tho' I overlook many things, I never do forgive a breach of orders in this department. I had yet another reason to make my Intentions publickly known at that time, and which I thought best not to communicate to Mr. Fanquier. I had been repeatedly informed that one Coll. Cresap, who is concerned in one of the Ohio Companies (the favorite scheme of Virginia) was proposing by way of subscription to several familys to remove from the frontiers of that Colony & Mariland, to form settlements on the Ohio: I foresaw that those poor People would be ruined by that bubble, and I. was the more induced to credit that Report, from an offer made me by that same Gentleman of a share or 25,000 acres of those Lands, which did not tempt, me. In preventing in the district intrusted to me a scandalous breach of a recent Treaty, by the measure complained of, I can not at least be charged with interested Views, or having exerted the little Power vested in me, to the oppression of the subject, or the Indian.



Page 136


136

BOUQUET PAPERS.

As an officer serving without Prospect of a higher Rank in the Army, There is no object of ambition for me in this Country; and as a man I must have convinced every Individual who has been concerned in this department, of my disinterestedness in never receiving the most triffling acknowledgment from any man in it. No Trader or Suttler ever paid me a shilling for their Licences, nor other People for the Plantations, I was authorized by Genl. Monckton to grant along the communication, and at Red Stone Creek, for the suport of this Post, and I have constantly observed the same Rule with the Indians, in accepting no Presents from them. Divested of all motives of ambition, and without private views of Interest, I flattered myself to be free of any Imputation of Partiality or Injustice. And having heard of no complaints from either of the two other Provinces, I must ascribe this Proceeding to the misfortune I had in the Campaign of 1758, to be obliged to differ in opinion with some persons of Virgn about Roads and Provisions, and I am afraid I remain still obnoxious to them, which can only increase my desire of being removed from this command, if it was consistent with your pleasure. The obliging manner in which you are pleased to mention that affair to me, and so very different from Mr. Fanquier's behaviour required with my most grateful acknowledgements, that I should clear myself of an odious Imputation the effect of a groundless Jealouzy and the greediness of ingrossing those Lands: and tho' from the distance of my station, I may be obliged to act sometimes without orders to the best of my Judgment, It shall be my constant endeavour not to incur your disapprobation, or disoblige any of the Provinces. The Garrisons of Presqu' Isle and Venango shall be reduced agreeable to your Directions & the overplus ordered to join us here. The Agent sent by Mr. Croghan to the western Indians shall have particular Instructions to insist on the delivery of the two deserters. Mr. Gorell being at the Post of La Baye in Lake Michigan, my reason for not recommending him more particularly was my uncertainty of the money being lodged, But Lieut Ralfe being satisfied to run that Chance, I can now safely recommend him as you will have no further trouble about that purchase I have the honour to be &c His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst. Endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Sir Jeffery Amherst 1st April 1762 Concerning Mr. Fanquier's Complaints. [A 4, p 120]



Page 137


NATURALIZATION 'OF COL. BOUQUET AND MR. VICTOR. 137 GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 3d April 1762 SIR By the Enterprise Man of War which arrived here the first Instant, I had the Honor of a Letter from His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State, Acquainting me of the King's having declared war against Spain, and in the Declaration which was this day publickly proclaimed here, the Just and Indispensible Reasons that obliged His Majesty to take that measure are fully explained. I am therefore to Desire that this may be made known to the officers & Soldiers at your Post, and the Communication. I am Sir Your Humble Servant JEFF: AMHERST. To the officer commanding at Fort Pitt. Endorsed: Sir Jeffrey Amherst 3d April 1762. Received the 16th May [A 4, p 1.24] AN ACT FOR THE NATURALIZATION OF COLONEL HENRY BOUQUET AND I FREDERICK VICTOR. I. Whereas as Lieutenant Colonel Henry Bouquet, whom our most Gracious Sovereign hath by his commission, been pleased to appoint an officer in His Majesty's Sixteenth or Royal American Regiment, and Frederick Victor of the City of Annapolis, Gentlemen, being both of them Foreigners of the Protestant or Reformed Religion, have by their several Petitions to this General Assembly, expressed their earnest desire to be made Partakers bf the Immunities & Privileges which His Majesty's natural born Subjects of this Province are entitled to, and enjoy, and have also made it appear to the satisfaction of this Assembly, that they have respectively taken the several Oaths to the Government. II. Be it enacted by the Right Honourable the Lord Proprietary by & with the advice and consent of his Lordship's Governor and the Upper and Lower Houses of Assembly, and the Authority of the same. That the said Henry Bouquet and Frederick Victor, shall, and they are hereby declared and adjudged able, to All Intents, Constructions, and Purposes whatsoever, to demand, take, have, retain and enjoy any Privileges and Immunities belonging to or enjoyed, by His Majesty's liege People and natural Subjects of this Province, and they the said. Henry Bouquet and Frederick Victor, are hereby qualified & enabled to 18



Page 138


138

BOUQUET PAPERS.

purchase, have, hold and enjoy, any Lands and Tenements, or other Hereditaments, within this Province and to prosecute, maintain and defend any action or actions, Real and Personal, in any of his Lordship's Courts of Record of this Province and to have hold and enjoy all the Privileges and Freedoms whatsoever that any of his Majesty's natural born subjects of this Province may, or can have, challenge or demand, any Law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding. April 22nd 1762 Read and assented to by the Lower House of Assembly. Signed per order J. A. THOMAS, Ck Lo. Ho. April 22nd 1762 Read and assented to by the Upper House of Assembly. Signed per order p J. Ross C1. Up. Ho. On Behalf of the Right Honourable the Lord Proprietary of this Province, I will this be a Law. HORR SHARPE. [A 18-1, p 132] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DFTROIT 26th April 1762 SIR I had the honour to receive your Letters of the 5th March by the Return of the Express, and your Last by the Trader. The General's Letter gave me great pleasure and as he has passed my Accompts and sent a Warrant for the Money, he refers me to a former Letter wherein I suppose he makes his remarks, which has not come to hand. He makes no mention of Provisions, but I hope there will be some method taken to supply these Posts, better than last year. I have sent off five Batteaus to Niagara, which is all I could rigg out for want of materials. I am sorry to hear of the sad accident that has happened your Fort and the loss of your Ammunition, if that had not happened I would have apply'd to you for a supply, In every letter I write the General, I represent to him the necessity of supplying this garrison and the other Posts with a quantity of Ammunition, he tells me in his last that he ordered Major Walters to furnish me for the use of the Garrisons, but not to be given to Indians, I have made a Demand for



Page 139


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

139

twenty Barrels of powder, &c but I am afraid thte Major will not grant my Demand, tho' I think its a small quantity considering the Garrisons to be supply'd. The Batteaus that wintered in the Lakes are arrived safe. I have wrote the General that I am of opinion that it is absolutely necessary to give some Triffling Presents to the Indians at the Outposts as our small Garrisons are at their Mercy. There is certainly one other method to be taken to keep them in good humor & I am of opinion it can be done at a small expense. I shall continue to give some Triffles to the Indian Nations here, tho I am against large Presents & great Treatys, which has not the desired effect. The Generals orders with regard to Rum will have a good effect, tho' I am told there is a large Quantity of Rum left at Niagara by the Albany Traders which I hope the Major will forbid to be sold to Indians. I have enclosed Returns of the company and Detachment. I have had a Complaint against young Schlosser from St. Josephs, I am afraid he never will doe in that command, it requires Judgment & Temper to command at one of these Posts. The french Inhabitants & Indians are so much connected that if you disoblige one of them, the other takes part. You may believe on his father's account, I shall doe everything to save him. If the Indians make a complaint against him, which they have not yet done I shall be obliged to relieve him, and report it to the General. I "am of opinion it would be best for his Father to- ask him relieved under Pretence of his being with himself, however you need not mention it to Capt. Schlosser till you hear from me, when I shall know more of the affair. Serjeant Steiner is with Ensign Schlosser at St. Joseph's. It will be impossible to relieve him, at present, as I have not a Serjeant to send in his place. I cannot spare one from this Garrison, so if you will send one from the Regiment, I shall send him directly. If you would mention to the General to allow us cattle from Fort Pitt they might be sent with the stpplys from Sandusky, it would be of the greatest service to us. I shall write more fully by Capt. Calendar who we expect dayly the Money will be acceptable. Sir Robert Davers is preparing to leave us to make the Tour of the Lakes. I am heartily sorry the news you gave me of poor Mathew's death.



Page 140


140

BOUQUET PAPERS.

The Bearer Smith Arries a little girl returning from the Indians, she was soe young when taken, that she can give noe account of herself. I shall send your Beaver Blanket & the Taba de natche' by Capt. Calendar. I write this day to Mukill & C & shall remember your commission. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect your most obedient Humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL. [A 18-1, p 139] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 2d May 1762. SIR Lieut Colonel Eyre arrived here on the 27th April and Delivered me your Letters of the 20th & 30th March & 1st April. I am sorry to say that the Report he has made me of the state of the Works, as well as the situation of the Fort, is very unfavourable: As I know not at present that I shall have it in my Power to send you any more men to carry on the works, all that can be done in the mean time is to go on with the Hands you have, in doing what you can on the former Plan, for I do not chuse to make any alterations, without Receiving orders for that purpose from home. I shall now answer your Letters, according to their Several Dates. As the Battalion was not on service, I thought it reasonable that the Eldest Captain Lieut in the Regimt should succeed to the Company vacant by the death of Captain Mather, and have accordingly signed a commission in favor of Capt. Lieut. Ecuyer which I shall send to Quebec, with orders for his Joyning the First Battalion: His commission is dated the 27th April, and you will give it in orders accordingly: The other two commissions I have filled up, agreeable to your Recommendation, and I herewith Enclose them, that you may Deliver them to Capt Lieut Meyer & Lieut Jehu Hay, the former of whom you will direct to Joyn the 2d Battn at Quebec, coming either this way, or going by the Route of Niagara, as is most convenient for him. As I have made a Requisition from the several Provinces for a number of Recruits to fill up the Regular Corps, the success whereof is yet however Doubtfull. I do not Intend to keep any of those whose times of Service are expired longer than I can supply their Place by Recruits; nevertheless I would have you Re-Enlist any, who can be



Page 141


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. 14

141

persuaded to Remain in the Service, and you will afterwards transmit me a Return of such as are Entitled to be Discharged in the 1st Battn, but this must be done without alarming the men or giving them hopes- of an immediate Discharge. With regard to the Disposition of the Battalion, that has been owing to circumstances not in my* power to prevent: I should have been very glad to have had the whole together; but the service has not permitted it; nor do I see any probability at present of" my being able to make any alteration therein. I approve very much of your going to visit the magazines at Ligonier & Bedford; and have no objection to your ordering some of the Flour to be sold, or sent to the Country People, to be Replaced in kind after their crop; but great care should be taken that they faithfully fulfill their agreements. I have perused Mr. Croghan's Letter, which I herewith Return you, & have only to observe thereon, that I by no means think it advisable to make any alterations in the Department of the Agent for Indian Affairs as I am convinced the Provinces taking that charge on themselves would be productive of many bad consequences to the several Governments, tho not to the commanding officers at the Posts, for they can have nothing to fear from the Indians, while they keep a proper look out, and prevent their getting too much ammunition. And this naturally Leads me to Repeat what I have oftLen said on this Article, that I would Deal it very sparingly to the Indians so long as the War continues, & that they can have any Excuse of being set on by our Enemies. The total prohibition of Rum, will I am hopefull, have such an Effect on the Indians, as to make them turn their thoughts on purchasing of the Traders, what will be more Beneficial to themselves and Familys; and I am sure it will prevent their being guilty of many crimes, which in their Liquor, they were too apt to commit. I am glad to find already that there have been considerable Savings made in that Department, which has been through your care and Attention, and I am persuaded you will take every Method in your Power for carrying on the Service, with the utmost Frugality, The Engli sh remaining in the hands of the Indians must be delivered up for I would not have one left after this Summer and I think the Indians will not Dare to Refuse to comply with our Demand. Presqu' Isle will be* supplied with Provisions from Niagara, as I have advice of great Quantitys being sent to Canada, and some I make no Doubt, is already shipt from Fort William Augustus for Niagara as I

I.



Page 142


142

BOUQUET PAPERS.

had ordered Provisions to be Forwarded from thence where they had an overstock. As you recommend Mr. Gorell to succeed Lieut Ralfe and that the latter is satisfied about the Purchase money, I have signed the commissions for Lieut Gorell & Ensign Hutchins, which I herewith Enclose to you, that you may deliver them to those gentlemen. They are dated the 2d March the Day I received your First Letter, naming Mr. Gorell to the succession. Soon after my Letter to you relative to the Proclamation you had Issued, which had given offence to the Virginians, I had one from Lt. governor Fanquier, wherein he says: "Colonel Bouquet has wrote a very sensible Polite & satisfactory answer, with which His Majesty's Council seemed very well pleased & desired that I would express their Sentiments to him." This I make no doubt but the Lt. governor has done, & therefore I need say nothing more on the subject as I was convinced your intentions in publishing that Proclamation was solely for the protection & security of those who had a Just Right to the Lands: and I am very glad to find it appears in its true Light to the Lieut. governor and Council. I needed no assurance to be satisfied of your acting with Disinterestedness in the Department where you command: And I cannot but approve of your never permitting uny Trader or Suttler to pay for Licences: This is what I have always prevented. You will please to acquaint the Gentlemen, to whom I send the commissions that they are not to pay any Fees for them. I am Sir Your most obedt. Servant JEFF. AMHERST Colonel Bouquet or officer commanding at Fort Pitt. Endorsed: Letter from His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst May 2nd 1762. Received the 16th do. Answered the 24th. [A 4, p 128] JAMES DOW TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. MY DEAR COLLONEL Sir Jeff: told me the cloathing for Niagara and Detroit must be sent and that I but (sic) to send a careful person with it. I told him I



Page 143


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO JAMES DOW.

143

had nobody, but if it was agreeable to him I was willing to go, his answer to me that I was to write you and obey your orders whatever is agreeable to you shall always be agreeable to me. As the roads are now very good the waggons will set out next week all the way for fort Pitt with the cloathing &c. I am &c. PHILADELPHIA JAMES Dow - 4th May 1762 -To Col. Bouquet COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO JAMES POW. FORT PITT DEAR SIR, 20th May 1762 I had the 16th your Letter of the 4th Inst with the disagreeable Prospect of another year of this Department. It is very unwillingly that I have given you so much trouble, & occasioned you so many Expenses, owing to the uncertainty of our Fate: as it seems to be fixed for this campaign, I hope to have the Pleasure to see you at last, and as Sir Jeffery has thought it necessary to send a careful Person with the cloathing of Detroit and Niagara you will please to go to Niagara with it from whence Major Walters will forward to Detroit their Proportion, & you will join us as soon as the Nature of the Communications will admit by Presqu' Isle where you will have the satisfaction to see your son commanding officer. I have long wished to have him relieved as it would be much for his advantage if he could be with you, but I could not do it from hence for want of officers. If you could obtain the Major's consent, Mr. Hay would gladly go to Presqu' Isle, but if that cannot be done we shall try some other method. I have sent a Party to clear the Roads for the Waggons which carry our cloathing from Philadelphia, and will send another to meet them. Mr. Brown has not sent me William's List Capt Basset will bring us one. The carrot seed is arrived. If I had thought that Capt Hay had yet been at Philad" I would have begged the favour of him to be present at the Inventory of Capt Mather's effects there & saved that trouble to Mr. Stedman, you will get that finished & the account transmitted to me that I may close



Page 144


144

BOUQUET PAPERS.

the whole & send it to England. Please forward the inclosed to him by this Packett. I thank ye for the news & Papers you sent me. The Packett will have brought more. I am very glad Coll: Vaughan has escaped & hope our general will soon come back with Cap. Gordon. If you see Irwin our former waggon master Be so good to ask him what is become of the two mares I had reserved at the same price he paid for the rest, when I delivered him all the King's Horses two years ago. He has acted very ungratefully in disappointing me bought them for bread. [A 23-1, p 175J COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT SIR 24th May 1762 I had the honour of your Letters of the 3, 4th April & 2d May. This Post and communication are Informed of the Declaration of war against Spain. Agreeable to Coll. Williamson's orders the officers of artillery is textracting the Salt Petre remaining in the damaged Powder the greatest part was dissolved by water. I shall continue to take no notice of the Shawane's Insult. Two Country men hunting contrary to orders along the Mononghehela have been killed since by Indians 60 miles above this Fort: The Shawanese are likewise charged with this murder, tho' with out sufficient Proof. That inconsiderable & proud Tribe are turbulent & disaffected, will not deliver their Prisoners & tho' they dare not act openly are more inclined for War than Peace. At a more convenient time they may be easily chastised, but they would be troublesome at present upon the communication in case of a rupture. They are all short of ammunition. The Delawar are collecting the Remainder of their Prisoners to deliver them at the next Treaty to the governor of Pensa. Their example may influence the others, or evince their dispositions. Mr. Croghan is gone to Bedford to see his dying mother, & is to meet Sir William Johnson the 15th of June at Easter. Our Indian Agents are a kind of Load Stone attracting the Indians,



Page 145


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

145

who reciprocally attract Presents, for when they are absent the Savages disappear, and the expence cease;. after all in several cases we cannot do wijthout them, but if any adress is required it consists rather I think in managing the managers than the Indians. The salutory effects of the prohibition of Rum are sensibly felt; your orders have been well obeyd, a Country man sent back from Fort Cumber land with his Canoe of Liquor passed that Fort & other Posts in the night & arrived safe here, where being detected 17 Kegs of Rum he had buried have been seized. I released the man & his Horses keeping the Rum in the King's Stores till you are pleased to order how it is to be disposed of. The Court of Inquiry being long I only inclose the Carriers own declaration. The Garrisons of our Block Houses are reduced. The men relieved have increased the discontent of ours, in regard to their discharges, some insolent Letters have been found in the Fort directed to me. I could not discover the authors, but soon checked that ferment: and if Your Excellency should think proper to authorize me to assure in your name those who have an incontestable Right to their disctharges at a fixed day in Nov. or December next They could be kept for this Campaign but without other Troops I could not answer for a longer Time: They are too many and those who have doubtful or no Rights are often in those cases most clamorous and forward. I have wrote to Niagara & Detroit for the Returns of such as have a Real Right. In the mean time I beg leave to inclose the numbers we have here that you may form Judgement of the Rest. I have taken no notice at present of those whose times expire at the end of the Campaign. Few could be prevailed upon to reinlist. The services of the Provinces are too great a temptation for them and I suppose Privateering another. Those who have enlisted are for the War and are our best men. They receive three Pounds currency. I have seen the time when the Province of Pennsylvania dreaded so much to be obliged to garrison this Fort that I believe they would rather have recruited then this Battalion than take their chance of the alternative. I received yesterday from Govr Fanquier a very polite answer to my Letter, I am so averse to occasion or be in any way concerned in any difference with the Civil Power, which commonly obstructs the serlice that I felt too sensibly a Proceeding tending as I thought to raise Prejudices against me. I am glad of this issue and shall be very cautious to avoid giving the least umbrage to any of the Governors, 19



Page 146


146

BOUQUET PAPERS.

which can be easily prevented where Intentions are known & a proper harmony is established. Permit me Sir to return my respectful thanks for the favours you have conferred on this Battn in filling up the vacancies. Capt LPhillips has made a considerable step in becoming the first of his Rank, he humbly recommends himself to your Protection. Capt. Lieut. Meyer is finishing the Survey of the Environs of the Fort & shall then proceed to Quebec. We have finished all the Repairs we could attempt and are making Bricks and mending the worst part of the Roads. Every man is kept continually employed. To save the time & Expehce of carrying meat to the small Posts I have bought sheep to send them, on account of the Crown, for the summer when there is no venison, & informed the contractor of it. Presqu' Isle is supplied with Provisions from Niagara, where all was well the 7th of this month. As soon as I have forwarded those Provisions I shall go to inspect the Magazines of Ligonier & Bedford & during my short absence leave the comand of this Fort to the next officer-Capt Barnsley. There will be no Indian Expence for some time. [A 23-1, p 179] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL. FORT PITT DEAR SIR 25th May 1762 I was favoured the 14th with your Letter of the 26th April with the Returns. The General's Warrant for the Discharge of your large Account is a very agreeable circumstance, as I know he did not approve the very great expences of the Indian Dept. and his repeated orders to me are to introduce the greatest economy possible in that branch, and to continue to keep the Savages short of ammunition during the War; Besides the three Scalps taken by the Shawanese in the beginning of this year, Two more men have been killed along the Mononghehela said to be done by them, tho without sufficient proof. The Vessels are ordered to be finished and Provisions are kept ready at the landing for four Battoe, I hope your distresses will now be over. We have no hopes of being relieved this year. the Provinces being so dilatory in raising Troops, and Maryland as usual refusing to do



Page 147


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL.

147

anything. I informed the General of the great number of our men whose times of service are expired and who apply continually for their discharge, and he has been pleased to answer that having made a requisition from the several Provinces for a number of Recruits to fill up the Regular Corps, the success whereof was however as yet doubtful. He did not intend to keep any of those whose times of service are expired longer than he could supply their places by Recruits and that he would have us Reinlist any who could be persuaded to remain in the service; and afterwards transmit to us a Return of such as are intitled to their discharges in this Battalion which must however be done without alarming the men or giving them any hopes of an Immediate Discharge. After having examined in presence of all the officers such of the men here who are in the case, we found several had no Right, we reinlisted several of the best men for the War giving them three Pounds Currency. I would not inlist any for any other Term or for Life To enable me to transmit a Return of the whole you will please to send to each of your detached Posts, a copy of the inclosed Form of a Return to be filled by the officer explaining in a clear manner the claims of every man & when you have collected your department send it to me. All the Rum at Niagara has been taken in the King's Stores, and that pernicious liquor will I hope be no more imported. Capt. Schlosser being here at the time I received your Letter, & now going to Niagara I thought best after two or three days to give him a hint of the complaints against his son which I hope by youir influence will have no bad consequences for him, and thatb you will not be obliged to report him to the General. But in that case I'll check him severely when I am informed of the circumstances. I have no Serjeant to spare to relieve Steiner, but if you could give an intelligent Corporal in his room should be glad to have him discharged as we have yet supernumerry ones. Should the General permit to send you cattle from hence, I cannot spare a man to drive them, & as the Salt Provisions will be cheaper, I believe it shall not be granted. The General has been graciously pleased to let the preferment go in the Regiment in appointing Captain Lieutenant Ecuyer to the command of the vacant company Lieut. Meyer to the Captain Lieutenancy & ordered to Quebec-Ensign Jehu Hay to the Lieutenancy-Those three commissions dated 27th April. The Ensigncy vacant yet. Ensign Gorrell succeeds Lieut. Ralfe who is married to Miss Diemer. Mr.



Page 148


148

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Hutchins succeeds Ensign Gorrell, commissions dated 2d March. You will please to deliver Mr. Gorrell the Inclosed Commission & have them given in order-I am commanded by the General to inform those gentlemen that they are to pay no Fees for their commissions. Colonel Prevost having the command of the 1st Batt" Colonel Smith has the 4th and Captain Smith Oswald's Majority. Colonel Young is at last gone to England-Yoa know the Declaration of war against Spain; nothing new from Europe. My Lord Abermarle with a powerful armament is supposed to be gone to Havannah. I am going for a few days to Ligonier & Bedford to view the Magazines of those Posts & leave the commant of this Fort with Capt. Barnsley. I am My dear Sir Your most obedt. Humble Servant To Capt. Campbell at the Detroit. Endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Cap. Campbell 24th May 1762. [A 23-1, p 184] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 7th June 1762. SIR. I am to own your Letters of the 24th May, with its Enclosures, which I recieved last night. Mr. Croghan having lately transmitted me his Accompt & Vouchers from November last to the 1st May, I immediately granted a warrant for the amount thereof, which I enclosed under cover to you, as it was uncertain where he might be: There is no doubt but the Agents will think it their Interest to treat the Indians as of more consequence than they really are; but my opinion of this it to yourself only, & I am hopefull the method now pursued by you, in keeping a check, on all the orders given for Presents &ca, will greatly Reduce the Expences of that Department, and it gives me pleasure to observe in the last accompt of Mr. Croghan that the Articles for Rum are greatly Diminished from what they have formerly been, which I attribute solely to your care and occonomy. My orders for the Prohibition of Rum, were in consequence of the many Evils that daily arose from the allowing it to be sold to the Indians; They have been sent to all the Posts, & I expect they will be strictly obeyed; As it appears that the Trader, whose Rum you have



Page 149


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

149

seized knew the orders given, and tried to evade them, I think it very reasonable that what you have taken should remain in the King's Stores, to be issued for the use of the Troops, as you occasionally shall think proper to order, for unless Examples are made it will be Impossible to Deterr the Traders from carrying up this pernicious Liquor. Such of the men as are really Entitled to their Discharges and will not Re-Enlist, may depend on being kept no longer than I can fill up their Places with Recruits from the Provinces, which I am hopeful will be very soon: I am not Determined yet with Regard to the Destination of the Virginia Regiment. If other Services should not Interfere, I may perhaps order them to Pittsburgh; but this is at present uncertain; and therefore you will do the best you can to keep the Troops you have employed: Discontents will arise in all garrisons at times, and the method of sending Insolent anonymous Letters sometimes practiced by the men: but if the Authors are once Detected & an Example made, these Discontents will soon subside: The men whose Rights are doubtful must not Expect their Discharges at this time, as the service will by no means permit it. Having Enquired 'into the state of Capt. Cochrane's health, Mr. Napier is of opinion, that it is absolutely necessary that he should remain here a little longer to undergo another operation; after which, if his Health will permit 'he will join the Battalion. By late advices from Fort Wm Augustus & Oswego, I have the pleasure to learn that two vessels had already sailed from the former place with provisions for Niagara, so that ample supplys will be there * in time to furnish all the distant Posts with a sufficient stock for the next winter. I am only glad my having granted the late Commissions to the Battalion is so agreeable to you, Capt. Lt. Philips cannot come better recommended to me than by you, being pursuaded you would not recommend him were he not Deserving, and I shall always be glad of an opportunity to prove to you how much I am Sir Your most obedt. Servant JEFF. AMHERST. P. S. Mr. Pitcher musters the 58th Regt. this day: & will immediately thereafter set out on his Tour to take the musters of the 1st Battn. Roy' Amer". Colonel Bouquet or officer commanding at Fort Pitt. andorsed: General Amherst 7th June 1762--Received the 17th-answered the 11th July. [A 4, p 133R



Page 150


150

BOUQUET PAPERS.

CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. To Col'. Henry Bouquet or Officer commanding at Fort Pitt Please to allow Messrs Callender & Spear to Pass with Spirits & Shrub, as much as they shall think sufficient for the use of this Garaison, and I will be answerable for their conduct. Given under my Hand this 8th June 1762. DONALD CAMPBELL Capt. R. A. Regt Commanding at Detroit DETROIT 8th June 1762 Endorsed Captain Campbell Pass for Liquors [A 18-1, p 221] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 8th June 1762. SIR I did myself the honor to write you some time agoe by one Smith a German that went from this place. I received your Letter of the 3d April by Mr. Hutchins, to whom I gave all the assistance to proceed on his journey, I could only spare him two men, and an Interpreter, and desired Lieut Leslye to provide him in a guide to the Bay, and St. Josephs, which is absolutely necessary, tho' it contradicts one Part of his instructions not to put the Crown to any expence whatever. I should think there could'be ' noe service carried on without some Expence. My Batteaus are Returned from Niagara & have forwarded a little to all the Posts, if I had a sufficient number of batteaus this the only season of the year to navigate these Lakes with safety, and the few I have got are see bad, that nothing but the good season & the necessity of the Service would oblige me to trust them. It seems they still (illegible) to get out the vessels but I am of opinion that Batteaus on those Lakes are most to be depended on, if one of vessels is lost there is Resource left to supply the Posts, for want of Batteaus. You see I have my own Difficulties to carry on the Service. Constant Demands from the officers at the different Posts for things to give the Indians. I am glad to acquaint you the General has passed all my Accompts that were sent him & given warrants for the Payment, he seems toler

Page 151


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. 151 ably well pleased with conduct but complains a little, that my Indian accounts were very high and recommends economy in time to come. I still continue to give them some Trifles at this Post and all the Posts depending such as Tobacco &c this is unavoidable in our present situation. I feel already the good effects of the orders against, tho' the Indians grumbled and even threaten'd us at first, they begin to hunt & mind their corn & I have not half soe much Trouble with them as last year. Major Walter has stopped all the Shiub & Spirit that the Traders were bringing for the use of this garrison. I doe not believe that the General Intends to keep stores from the officers, the Major might trust me that I would not allow any of it to the Indians. I have given a Passport Messrs. Spear & Callender to bring us some Liquor, which you will allow to pass, the Quantity can. be specified in their Passports from Fort Pitt. I send you Inclosed Returns of the garrisons. I have heard from all Posts except the Baye, tho Mr. Leslye has sent me Mr. Gorril's Letter to him, as his Letter that he mentions having sent me was not come to hand, he mentions that nothing had happened during the winter and all the People were well, Lt. Leslye is well with his Garrison, at least he returns the sick. Mr. Leslye desires me to acquaint you that he will doe his endeavor to procure some fine Peltry for you. I have sent you by the Bearer, Capt. Callender, a Beaver Blanket, a dozen of Martines and four Pricks of ye very best Tobacco, than comes from the Illinois which I beg you will doe me the honour to accept off. There is noe better Martines to be had here. I have the honour to be Sir Your obedt. hble Servt DONALD CAMPBELL P. S. Young Clapham is gone to Fort Pitt and the securitys he received for the cargoe he sold belonging to Messrs. Taylor and Cox, their interest is recommended to me from Philadelphia, I beg you would oblige him to settle with them. P. S. I had almost forgot to mention to you that I sent a Person to St. Joseph's to examine into the complaint made against Mr. Schlosser. I gave him my best advice for his future conduct, he promises to me that I shall' never have any future complaints against him and the whole affair is made up for this time. Mr. Hutchins shows an Inclination to be sent to one of these Posts when he gets his commission, I should think him a proper Person.



Page 152


152

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Serjeant Steyner was true & is very willing to stay another year or to get his Discharge in the fall if you think proper to send another Serjeant in his place. I have already mentioned to you that Young Clapham has notes in hand to the value of thirty five thousand Livres belouging to Taylor & and Cox, I wish you would bring him to a settlement with them, I can tell he is a positive young man. Endorsed: Addressed to Colonel Bouquet Commanding His Majesty's Forces at Fort Pitt. Captain Campbell's 8th June Received the 7th July 1762 Answered the 22nd [A 18-1, p 224] WILLIAM LESLYE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DEAR SIR Capt Campbell wrote me some time ago to procure you a few Martins and other sorts of small peltrie which I would have done before but there is no Indians as yet come here from Lake Superior & the Martins they kill here are not worth sending I expect the Indians from that quarter soon & shall do ~my endeavour to procure you some of the best of each kind you want. I have wrote to Capt Campbell at the desire of Serjt Cummings of his Company who has passed the winter here in a bad state of health, he would be glad to be discharged from the service & if it is necessary would pay for another man, or be obliged to find a good man in his place. if its possible to be done I should look upon it as a very particular favour to obtain the Serjts discharge. I should not pretend to ask this favour at present if I did not think that the service would lose nothing in getting another good man in his place. I am most Respectfully Your most obQdt Servt. WILLm LESLYE To Col. Henry Bouquet MICHILIMACKINAC 22nd June 1762 [A 18-1, p 266] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SDETROIT 24th June 1762 SIR I had the honor to write you lately by Capt Callendar. a Serjeant and fifteen men arrived here the 13th Instant from Niagara to Reinforce the Garrison & the Posts.



Page 153


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. 153 The General writes me he had ordered Commodore Loring to Niagara to get the Vessels into the Lake with all Expedition, he also acquaints me he means to take Posts in Lake Superior more Banishment for some unlucky fellows. I have inclosed you the monthly Returns of the Company and detachment. Pray be soe good as inform me in. your next on what service Bentwick is at present. Nothing new at Detroit the Indians have almost forgot the Rum. I am Sir with all respect your most obedient Humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL Endorsed: Captain Campbell 24th June 1762 Received the 17th of July Answered the 22nd. by Morin. [A 18-2, p 270] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. "DETROIT 3rd July 1762 SIR I had the honor to receive your Letters of the 19th April and 25th May only a few days agoe I wrote you lately by Mr. Walsh the Trader & sent a Return for the 24th June mentioning the arrival of a Serjeant and fifteen men from Niagara to reinforce this garrison. I still labour under the same difficulty with Regard to Provisions,.the Batteaus are returned a second time but that will not doe without the assistance of the vessels. The general trusts to the vessels supplying the Posts in good time, but by the last accounts from that I have from Niagara I am affraid there is but little dependance to be made upon them, soe I am oblidged to prepare for the worst. I shall soon know it, this is the best season to navigate the Lakes, and indeed after this month the navigation is very precarious. The General says the Crown is to be noe longer at the expense of maintaining the Indians, that they may very well live by their hunting, and' desires to keep them scarce of powder. I should be glad to know what you doe in that Respect. I am certain if the Indians in this country had the least hint that we intended to prevent them from the use of Ammunition it would be impossible to keep them quiet I dare not trust even the Interpreters with the secret. The Indians are a good deal elevated on the news of a Spanish war And daily Reports 20



Page 154


154

BOUQUET PAPERS.

spread amongst them that the french and Spaniards are soon to retake Quebec &ca this goes from one nation to another and it is impossible to prevent it. I assure you they only want a good opportunity to fall upon us if they had any encouragement from an enemy. I had yesterday Letters from Lieut Leslye and Ensign Gorrill, the latter says his garrison has been very sickly during the winter, but mentions nobody having died. These gentlemen at the Posts are absolutely oblidged to give some triffles to the Indians so that I shall have large accompts to settle. I shall send the form of the Return to the different Posts, as opportunity offers and shall transmit the whole to you as soon as possible, I find all those recruited in Germany are entitled to their discharges. I shall send Mr. Gorrils Commission by the Batteaus that goes to Michillimakinac I am glad the Promotion goes in the Regiment. I shall relieve Serjeant Steyner and send him to you, how soon I can send a Corporal to relieve him at present they are employed on different services transporting Provisions to the Posts. You mention that there is noe hopes of our Regiment goeing on service this year. I agree with you sincerely, that it would be much better for us to be relieved from this state of Inactivity, for my own part I am heartily tired of the Detroit, tho' the best frontier Garrison I begin to know the People too well, I do not think they improve on a long acquaintance. I am much oblidged to you for your constant attention for sending me the news. The General communicated to me the important conquest of Martinico and the Spanish declaration of War. Mr. Lesslye has already sent me some martins, he says he expects more fine Peltry when the canoes from lake Superior come in, I hope we shall be able to send you what you want, I expect Sir Robert Davers soon, he is already returned from Lake Superior to Michill. I am with great Respect and Esteem Sir Your most obedient humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL I hope this will find you returned from your Expedition. Endorsed: Capt. Campbell Detroit 3rd July Recd 26th [A 18-2, p 274]



Page 155


J. D. HAMBACK TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

155

GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 14th July 1762 SIR Sir Joseph Yorke having Recommended to me Mr. Vanhulst the Surgeon's mate to the 1st Batt" Royal Americans, I should be glad to do anything that may be agreeable to Sir Joseph and as I am persuaded he would not have Recommended this Gentleman had he not thought him Deserving & if his Behaviour has continued to be such as to Deserve your Recommendation, I shall gladly provide for him, as at present I have an opportunity of establishing him at Annapolis Royal in Nova Scotia. I must therefore Desire you will order him hither, where he shall Receive his Commission, unless you have any objection to his character, in which case you will acquaint me of it, But if Mr. Vanhulst Leaves the Battalion, you will look out for a mate to succeed him. I have ordered Fifty Head of Cattle to be forwarded immediately fromI Philadelphia to the Detroit, on a Proposal which was lately transmitted to me by Captain Campbell, from one of the Traders at that Place, which I hope will answer. I am, Sir Your most obedt. Servant JEFF AMHERST Colonel Bouquet or officer commanding at Fort Pitt. V Endorsed: Sir Jeffery Amherst 14th July 1762 Received the 23d Oct. [A 4, p 139] J. D. HAMBACK TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT July 14h 1762 HONOURED SIR The pleasure which I feel in expressing my Gratitude to your honour, by every opportunity, would be entirely, if I was not in some measure checked by the fear of being too troublesome in writing so often but as your honour had been kind enough of interesting yourself for me, at my first entering into Trade, I think it my duty to acquaint you of the success of it, two days ago. Mr. Vandervelden sett off with 40 packs by the way.of Niagara, which if safe arrived with the Bill of Exchange, and Furrs of last year, will I hope very near pay off



Page 156


156

BOUQUET PAPERS.

the first cost of our Cargo, and next Spring we are to get 37 packs more which will sufficiently pay the expenses. I can't help of being some what dissatisfied of Capt Callender, of having disappointed me this Spring, after all the agreement we had made-and the assurances I got by his hand writings, viz, to be up early in the Spring with the goods in partnership between him and me, and upon which I promised to sundry persons to furnish them with such goods as I had given him an Invoice of: to extricate myself from which I have been obliged to take some goods from him and Spear, at the same rate they sell here to french men, and so dear that I very much repent of having taken it, as I could make much better Bargains with the Albany Trader, several of whom would be glad to take me in partnership with them, or sell me upon credit, which I could sell again upon very good advantage at the out Post-As I am not only well acquainted now, what goods suits best, but understand.several Tongues of Indian Nations tolerable well. Mr. Mitchell desires me almost in every Line to come down, as he will let me have goods and cash if required, and has proposed me a Partner if I choose him, but all those advantages I must loose for this Summer, by the threat I put into Mr. Callendar's Letters. Mr. Prentice, his Brother in Law is, I suppose, to be in my place. If possibly I can dispose of the goods, I have at present at hand, I intend.of being down in the Faal. SJ I am, Sir Your Honour's most humble & most obedt Servant J. D. HAMBACK P. S. Tomorrow I intend to sett off again to St. Joseph where my goods is gone before me. Endorsed. Addressed to Colonel Henry Bouquet Esqr. Commanding at.lort Pitt P. favour of Mr. Smalman Mr. Hamback July 14h 1762 Received by Mr. Smalman the 7h Angt Answered the 27h [A 18-2, p 287]



Page 157


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL HENRY BOUQUET.

157

H. C. PAULI TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SANDUSKY, July ye 23d SIR 1762 Capt. Campbell being in want of fresh meat, I have let him have eight sheep in lieu of Porck. Sir I am Your most obedient Humble Servant H. C. PAULIU Ens. GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 25th July 1762 SIR II Had last Night your Letter of the 11th Instant, enclosing a state of the Standing Expences of the Indian Department under Mr. Croghan, which Indeed are very high; I shall transmit a copy thereof to Sir William Johnson for his opinion, but, in the meantime, you will do perfectly right to strike off one of the Assistants Immediately on his Return from the outposts. The Behavior of the Indians in Detaining the Captives, contrary to their Repeated promises, is a very sufficient Reason for suppressing all Presents; and I am well convinced a due observance of this alone, will soon produce more than can ever be expected from Bribing them: We had a Recent Instance of this in South Carolina, where the Cherokees have at last Delivered up all the English Prisoners that were Remaining amongst them. And this was brought about merely by laying a Restraint on the Trade which accordingly produced the desired effect, when Treatys, Bribes, and all other methods had failed. I am very glad to hear you found the stores at Ligonier & Bedford, in such good order: The outside of the Flour may be a little spoilt, but I Imagine if care is taken, to use the worst first, there cannot be much of this useful articles Lost. What you mention of the Bridges on the communication will always happen untill the service will permit more than Temporary Ones to be



Page 158


158

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Built: At present all that can be done is to Repair them in the best manner you can, with the Hands you Have. The Virginia Troops are the only Provincials I could send you and I have been for some time past determined as to their Destination: I had once some Thoughts of ordering the whole Regiment to Fort Pitt; but as I know not but they may be wanted for other more essential Services, they must Remain for the present where they are. I am Sir Your most obedt. Servt. JEFF: AMHERST Colonel Bouquet; or officer commanding at Fort Pitt endorsed: Sir Jeffery Amherst 25th July 1762. Received the 25th Octr. [A 4, p 140] MAJOR HENRY GLADWIN TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NIAGARA, July 29th 1762. SIR Eere this I am persuaded you will have heard that the General has been pleased to appoint the Major to the Battalion you command but as it appears to me no way to my advantage, I thought it best to decline accepting it not that I have any objection to the corps, on the contrary, I can assure you, that I have a very great regard for all the gentlemen with whom I have the honor to be acquainted, and for none more than for Colonel Bouquet. I shall proceed for Detroit to morrow with Capt Etherington's Company, from thence I shall send him with proper parties under his command to Lake Superior, in order to take Post at Sault de St Marie Gamanestaquia & Chaqumigon, If I can serve you in anything that way, I shall be happy in executing your commands. I am Sir Your most obedient and very humble Servant HENRY GLADWIN I desire you will present my compliments to the gentlemen with you. Endorsed: Letter from Major Gladwin 29th July 1762 Received the 24th of August Answered the 21st Sept.



Page 159


J. SCHLOSSER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

159

"J. SCHLOSSER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NIAGARA Augt. 1st 1762 DEAR COLONEL Inclosed I send you the Monthly Return of our Detachment here for the month of July 1762. At the arrival here of the Muster Commissary. Mr. Pitcher I saw a Letter of you to Major Walters in which you tell him to put in our Companys the 4 men who were not mustered at all in the preceeding muster, but as he was already gone to join his former Regiment, we mustered the 31st July & brought those 2 men in the Majors company from the 25th April 1761. Major Gladwin is arrived here the 28 July & brought the orders with/ him for a Captain with his company to go with him to Detroit and from thence to go Establish four Posts about Lake Superior, He is to take the command at Detroit & Capt Etherington with his men to go to Michilmacana & plus ultra, the company is gone the 29th & 30th July, the Major & Capt sets off tomorrow, as everything is ready for them. they will proceed their voyage immediately. The vessel is out of the River & I believe already arrived at Detroit. The Major would middle with nothing during his stay here, he believes that the general will remove him again in the light Infanterie, & given us in his place Major Wilkins who commands here. if trou, we will have a very genteel man in him, he seems to be a good officer who understands his business. The arrival of Major Gladwin gave me an opportunity to have Discharges, to execute my Project, in exchanging the most of the men who claimed their Discharges since sometime, and those who were not good for the service, the inclosed list will show you the names of the men wo are already exchanged. James Lane of my Company now at Sandusky, being transferred to Capt Cochran in the Room of Adam Hirshman has good in the book 9-19-81 York. Capt Barnsley can pay it upon my acct, if he has received nothing but what I know. Serjent Brock of Etherington's Company being discharged by furnishing another good man in his Place, being a supernumerary Serjent, I have made in my Company to fill up the vacancy, Given full Corporal in Cochran's Company & replaced him with another man who I transferred there & send him to Presqu' Isle his name is Andrew Colbrath. I shall send another time to Capt Barnsley a list of what one company is due to another, caused by the transferation & which could not be paid, being not togather, that he may change it to its proper Place.



Page 160


160

BOUQUET PAPERS

In two days I sett out for Scenectoday for necessaries for the garrison, but will be back so soon as possible. The Sergent Major having herd, that Mr. Potts was to sell his adjutant's place, he desired me to sollicito your Protection for him & beggs the favour of your Recommendation to be admitted to pay it, having the money ready, I believe he understands that Business very well & would do anything to deserve your approbation & show his gratfulness. Vergive my freedom & believe me allwise to be respectfully Dear Colonel Your most obedient. humble Servant J. SCHLOSSER P. S. Permit me Sir to join my best wishes to our gentlemen in general. [A 18-2, p 321] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 4th August 1762 SIR I have not had the honor to write you for some time past, I was sorry to hear of the unlucky Accident you meet with alongst with Capt Ourry, but I hope you have entirely got the better of it and this will find you returned to Fort Pitt. I am to acquaint you that I had a letter from the General wherein hU tells me he had appointed Major Walters to the 45th Regmt and Major Gladwin to succeed him and that Major Gladwin was to command at Detroit, But he was Pleased to say as he had great confidence in me, he had ordered Major Gladwin to send me forward to take Posts in lake Superior, or to keep me with himself as he judged best for the Service, and send another Capt in my place. But I believe our Expedition to Lake Superior will scarcely take place this year, as by the last accounts I had from Niagara the vessels are still in the same way and noe Batteaus built. I have large accounts to pass for the Contractions of this garrison and the Posts depending. If these affairs were settled, I own I could wish to join you at Fort Pitt, This is soe small a favour that I hope the general will nqt refuse it. I have lately sent Returns of the Detachment which I hope has come safe to hand. I am sorry to acquaint you of poor Clapham's unhappy fate, he purchased two Paris Slaves here, he had the imprudence to venture



Page 161


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

161

alone with them from Sandusky in a Canoe, it appears they had formed the design to kill him, but did not put their scheme in execution till they meet with some Indians, near Presqu' Isle to whom it seems Mr. Clapham gave some Rum and then they excited them to help them kill their Master-and then plundered all his effects & burnt his Papers, they had the assurance to Return but the Indians delivered them up to me. I wrote the whole affair fully to Mr. Price, whom I have begged the favour to communicate to Mrs. Clapham, to which I refer you. The Indians seem tolerably well disposed at this place for the present time. Mr. Gorril writes he cannot procure the fine peltry you want till next Spring. Detroit affords nothing new. I am Dr. Sir with the greatest Respect & Esteem Your most obedient humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL I had a Letter from Major Gladwin of the 26th June, he did not then know of his Promotion. Endorsed: Capt. Campbell 4h August Received the 11th Sept 1762. Answered the 21st [A 18-2, p 330] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 26th August 1762 SIR I was favoured with your Letter of the 22nd Instant, I did myself the honor to write you some time agoe by a Trader-Major Gladwin arrived here the. 23rd Instant with Capt. Etherington, Lieuts Jamets and Jehu Hay-I informed you that the General had destined me to take Posts on Lake Superior but Major Gladwin has thought proper to keep me with himself here, as he bad that Power from the General. I made noe choice, I hope Major Gladwin will find less Difficultys in his command than I have had. The Vessel is arrived but brought only 40 Barrels of Provisions. There can be nothing more done this season than to take Posts at St. Mary's, Capt. Etherington goes to command at Michillimackina for the winter, and Lieut Jamets goes to St Marys, and the vessel is to pro21



Page 162


I

162 BOUQUET PAPERS. ceed to Michillimackinac, tho' she has got but little Provisions on board. I shall now be quiet happy if my accompts were passed, I have been obliged to make large contractions for Provisions Batteau men &c as I have had noe assistance given me, at least very little since I commanded at Detroit. I gave noe orders to officers at the Out Posts to make Presents to the Indians since Sir William Johnson left this place tho' I am still of opinion, that ye Crown should be at some expence to keep the Indians in good humor, till the fate of the country is known, it may be done with more accuracy than what has been practised by Indian Manadgers. Lieut Jenkins & Ensign Holmes have purchased provisions for support of their Garrisons, I believe their Accompts come pretty high. I have already mentioned to the General the necessity Lieut Jenkins was under of making presents to the Indians on our taking Possession of Ouiatanon, soe I hope his Accompts will pass. The General puts a very great hardship on me to certify these gentlemen's Accompts. I have communicated all Regimental Orders to Major Gladwin he has not had time to send the Monthly Returns by this opportunity. I have been soe much hurried since the Major's arrival that I have not had time to make out the Muster Rolls, I am surprised Capt Callender did not deliver you the dozen of Martin skins I sent you it would seem he had forgot them. Give me leave to give you Joy of your Rank in the Army, I hope this is a good step towards a Battalion. I am Sir with the greatest Respect Your very obedient humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL Endorsed: Capt. Campbell 26th Aagust 1762 Received 20th Sept Answered the 21st [A 18-2, p 387] CAPT. GEO. ETHERINTTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 4th September 1762 DEAR COLLO At my leaving Niagara I had the pleasure of writing you in answer to yours by Mr. Pitcher. I have given Bounty to the five men hereafter mentioned and have



Page 163


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

163

Inclosed their receipts & Certificates to Captain Barnsley-they are to serve for three years or during the present War. I was in hopes to have gone in the Schooner to Michillimackinac but the master of her who has been sounding Lake St Clair is returned & says there is not water enough to get the vessel into the River Huron, so that I leave this tomorrow in Batteaux. I am Dear Collo Your very Hble Servant GEO: ETHERINGTON Collo Bouquet Capt Etherington Detroit 4th Sept 1762 [A 18-2, p 396] Men's names of Captain Etherington's Company who's times were out & have received Bounty money to serve three years or during the war New York Currency Ladwick Stone ~ 4-16 George Peightal 3-10 Michel Walter 3-10 Jacob Lamplin 3-10 John Sweanngs 3-10 ~ 18-16 DETROIT 4th Sept' 1762 GEo ETHERINGTON [A 18-2, p 397] OAPT. DONALD OAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 23rd S,ept 1762 SIR I did myself the honor to write you after Major Gladwin's arrival at this place, But you will know before now that Major Gladwin has not accepted of the majority and that Major Wilkins is appointed to it. Major Gladwin is to continue to command this department. The general acquaints me he has given him full Power to build Batteaus call for Ammunition from Niagara and every thing that is wanted to carry on the Service. We expect the other vessel from Niagara with 400 Barrils of Provisions, if by any accident she does not come we shall have the same difficulties to support the Troops as formerly.



Page 164


164

BOUQUET PAPERS.

I have the honour to inclose you a Return of the Detachment under Major Gladwin's Command. I have likewise sent the Muster Rolls made out as directed. I have not as yet Received Returns from all the Posts of the mens time of Service, none of those have, who are entitled to their discharges seem willing to reinlist. We have received the cloathing for the Detachment they are much spoiled. There are two Serjeants cloathing & four Privates wanted to compleat the Detachment. The Serjeants and Drummers want the cloathing of last year. I shall send to relieve Serjeant Steyner at St Josephs in a few days and shall order him to Fort Pitt, I am to inlist a man in his Place. I am very busy in making up my Accompts which come very high, tho' I have carried on the Service with the utmost ecconomy, and as for myself my finances are much lower than when I came to Detroit. I have not as yet mentioned any thing of my self to the General, But now when Bussiness is over I believe I shall begin tho' perhaps he may think of me. I am sorry that it has not been in my Power to procure you the Peltry you wanted, tho' I hope to get some for you in the Spring. Detroit affords nothing new, we are very happy in a commandant, Sir Robert Davers is here and passes the winter with us, I dare they will allow you to take a Jaunt down the country this year, I would take it as a favour you would mention me to Collonel Prevost when you write him, and desire him et qu il aura La bonte de donner de mes nouvelles a nuns le Collonel Mackay son Beaupere I am with the greatest "-Respect D' Sir Your most obedient humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL Major Gladwin desires his compliments to you, he says he wrote you from Niagara Endorsed: Capt Campbell 28rd Sept 1762 Answered the llth October.

[A 18-2, p 415J



Page 165


LIEUT. JEHU HAY TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

165

LIEUT. JEHU HAY TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT September SIR " the 24h 1762 As you have undoubtedly heard that there is not water enough in Lake St Clair to carry the Vessels through to Lake Huron, I flatter myself the Inclosed copy of a sketch of that Lake taken by Mr. Brehm, will not be disagreeable especially as you will see the great difference between the depth of the water at the Time Mr. Brehm sounded it, and what it is at the present as sounded by Capt Robinson of the Schooner Huron, the third and fourth Instant, which it is suppos'd must be caus'd by some moving sand banks, and not by the falling of the water as some imagine, for notwithstanding the water in the Upper Lakes ebbs (as we are informed) for several years successively, and is as long a flowing, yet the greatest difference that has been known in the depth of the water here, has not exceeded five feet. The red figures in the Sketch are Fathoms as sounded by Mr. Brehm, the black ones are Feet as sounded by Capt Robinson. The Sand Bars which are two or three miles in the Lake runs in the direction of the small Figures. As Mr. Brehm & Capt Robinson's Compasses dont agree I have marked them both, the white one is Mr.' Brehm's, the black one Capt. Robinson's. The scale I have some how lost but believe it to be about six or seven miles to an inch. This sketch is the same with the one that went to the General, with this difference, the General's had no red figures, nor but one Compass, and that was Capt. Robinson's. I should have done myself the pleasure of writing to you immediately after the Lake was sounded but I had not an opportunity. I am Sir with great respect Your most obedient Servant JEHU HAY Coll. Bouquet Endorsed Addressed To Collonel Bouquet at Fort Pitt Lieut J Hay 24h Sept 1762 Answered the 11th of October [A 18-2, p 418]



Page 166


166

BOUQUET PAPERS.

MAJOR J. WILKINS TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT NIAGARA, 25th Sept 1762 SIR I have sent you inclosed the monthly returns of the 2 companys present, and off the Detachment from the other compy's. I am told that you receive the Returns &c of the men at the Detroit by Sandusky. Captain Hopkins & his Co of Independants 4 offs, 4 Serjts, 4 Corps, 2 Drum" & 110 men are pass'd this post on their way to ye Detroit. I am just now sending off a new sloop that will carry to ye Detroit near 500 Barrels of Provisions. Capt Hopkins &c goes in her. I am Sir Your very humble Servt J. WILKINS Lieut McDougal was here lately & seems to like the Detroit &c very much. Colonel Bouquet Endorsed: Major Wilkins 25th Sept 1762 Received by Capt Ecnyer the 16th Novr 1762 [A 18-2, p 427] LIEUT. WILLIAM LESLYE TO COL. RENRY BOUQUET. DEAR SIR I send you inclosed a letter, sent me by General Abercrombie, which I received a few days agoe. the General mintions his haveing apply'd to you to have me relieved from this disagreeable Station, which if its possible for you to do in the Spring, you will do me a particular favour. I have not been able to procure you the Martins Skins &c you wanted but have given commissions to several ffrench men who are gone a wintering with the Indians & I dare say I shall be able to send them to you in the Spring. Capt Etherington arrived here a few days agoe, he is to send Mr.



Page 167


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

167

Jemett to take Post at St. Marries which is all that can be done this year, the season being too far advanced for goeing in to Lake Superior. I am most respectfully Dear Sir Your most obedt Hu' Servt WILLM LESLYE Michilimackinack 30th Septr 1762 Endorsed Lieut Leslie Michilimackinac 30ht Sept 1762 [A 18-2, p 434] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT SIR 5th October 1762 Since my last of the 12th July, The only Letter I have to acknowledge from your Excellency is of the 14th June received the 30th July concerning the appointment of Major Gladwin to this Battn. which would be extremely agreeable if we could expect to keep him. It is with great reluctancy I am obliged to mention again the case of our men intitled to their discharges. They have behaved themselves very well from the time I acquainted them with your Intentions to have them discharged as soon as they could be replaced by Recruits, But I am almost certain that they will not stay longer than the end of this Campaign In which case many who have only pretentions and no clear Rights will very probably follow their example which it would not be in my power to prevent: Their long stay in this Department has made them acquainted with the woods & I can no more have them taken up as formerly. We have lost 12 men a few days ago & in all 20 by desertion since May last, the Party & Indians I sent after them have had no effect. Those are not men who had a Right to their discharge & as the Conduct of these last have made them deserving of being recommended, I take the Liberty to ask it as a particular favour; that you would be pleased to grant them their discharge after this Campaign, which I hope would be attended with a good effect in giving hopes to others to be treated in their turn with the same indulgence. If I had any prospect to be able to make them continue longer in the service, I would not be so Importunate being well acquainted with the difficulty of replacing those men in the present circumstances: Their numbers



Page 168


168

BOUQUET PAPERS.

on this side the Lakes amounts at most to Forty; who have clear and indisputable Titles; Mr. Hutchins is returned from visiting the Western Indians & has seen all our Posts on the Lakes. Sir William Johnson will inform you of the mercenery dispositions of those savages. Those returned from the Treaty at Lancaster do not appear satisfied and the numerous and frequent Partys of warriors of the Six Nations going to war with the Cherokees, are become very troublesome since they get no more the presents of Powder, Lead & other articles they were used to receive at this Post; Mr. Croghan has informed Sir William of their behaviour & continual Importunity. Capt. Basset our Engineer has acquainted me that his accounts could not be passed as they were not in proper form, I have seenr his Books & it appears to me that he has followed exactly the method prescribed by Capt. Gordon who is properly answerable for that irregularity. As I have nothing for him to do at present at this post, if he could be permttted to go to Coll. Eyre. He might perhaps clear that Part of those accounts he is charged with. I had the honour to inform you a year ago, that I had paid money for Publick Services in this Department, In consequence of General Monckton's former orders to me. The account & Vouchers of which were transmitted to him at the time he embarked for Martinico. The desire of settling those accounts & some private affairs oblige me to beg your Leave for a short absence if the Service will admit of it, after receiving your orders concerning our men and as I have been three years constantly at this Post, I flatter myself you will excuse this application. endorsed; To General Amherst 5th October 1762 with the Returns for July, August & Sept under cover to Meesrs Plumsted & Franks went the 6th by Robinson. [A 4, p 146] T. HAMBACH TO COL. HENRY BOUQUEF. FORT ST. JOSEHH HONOURED SIR October the 13th 1762 Your Honours from the 27th I have had the pleasure of receiving a few Days ago. Your Honour has not wrote yet in my behalf to Detroit, as I made free to beg of your Honour, I would humbly beg not to take any trouble in that way, as I have got a pass & a very good Friend at Detroit who has promised to assist me in getting the necessary permits.



Page 169


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

169

Since your Honour desires me to know the truth of M' Schlosser's extravaganty's I am certain that there has been several complaints made to Cant Campbell. But his greatest follies are still undiscovered, as often as he has any Liquor or any Person whatsoever will give him any (for refuses nobody all that it was an Indian, He generally gets what you call merry, and then being an absolute master, gets into his Head; in one of those fits he run once into a French man's House. The man being to bed, But by the noise he getting up, Mr. Schlosser got hold of him and call'd for the guard, and afterwards told the People that he had orders to burn the Fort kill all the French and march off with his Garrison. I only have alleg'd this one piece, altho I might many more relate of the same nature. I am some time ashamed how the comon French people talks, they admire the English would send a man of some sense to an out post, and amongst so many Indians, and not a Boy. I beg your Honour's Pardon for being extravagant myself, and beg Leave to subscribe myself Sir Your Honours most humble & most obedt Servant T. HAMBACH Endorsed: Mr. Hambach Oct 13th 1762 Received 11th Novr CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 23d Oct 1762. SIR The bearer Rodolph has found a very good man in his room & at his earnest Request I have sent him to you to have his Discharge. I had the Honor to receive your Letter of 27th Sept which I shall answer by Capt Callender who may be with you before this opportunity. We are much oblidged to you for the news, Major Gladwin has not received any Letter from you. I am with the "o Greatest Respect Sir Your most obedient humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL Endorsed: Capt Campbell 23d October 1762 by Rudolph the 14th Novr. [A 18-2, p. 457] 22



Page 170


170

BOUQUET PAPERS

COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST FORT PITT SIR 26th October 1762. Last night I received by the Express Fleming, your Excellency's Letters of the 14th & 23d July 3d & 29th August and 6th September. The several orders contained in these Letters and particularly that in the 3rd August relative to the Public Accounts during my command in Carolina requiring an immediate compliance. I beg leave to enclose Mr. Levy's Letter to me explaining the causes of such strange neglects in forwarding these dispatches. I shall now have the honour to answer them agreeably to their dates. Sir Joseph York's recommendation in favour of Mr. Vanhulst could not fall upon a subject more deserving your Protection, I do with pleasure vouch for his character, and but for fear of being importunate should long ago have taken the Liberty to recommend him to you myself. He shall repair to New York as soon as possible and I will look out for another mate to succeed him in the Batt". The Cattle you ordered to Detroit have been sent early there, and must have answered well, as the Post was short of Provisions: The Vessels having not been launched so soon as was expected. Major Wilkinson is given in orders as Major to this Battalion. I have acquainted Mr. Croghan that he is to conform himself hereafter to the new Regulations made by Sir William Johnson and approved by you for the reduction of the Standing Expenses of the Indian Department under his care. The Indians have not yet brought here any of their Prisoners since my Letters of the 5th and 9h Instant, and I hopfe to receive your instructions as to the manner of receiving them, before any appear. I am extremely sorry that I cannot transmit from hence, the distribution of the monies I received in 1757 and 1758, in virtue of the Earl of Londoun's warrants, having none of those papers here. Mr. Mortier D. Paymaster General may inform you niore clearly than I could myself for what Reason a Warrant was not granted to discharge me, tho' I sollicited it at N. York from General Abercrombie during three weeks at my return from Carolina in April 1758. I cannot apprehend how the whole sum I received could be charged to Colonel Montgomery's Regiment, as the Accounts of Contingencies for Transports &c. were very distinct from those of subsistence as will



Page 171


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

171

appear by my accounts deposited in Mr. Mortier's hands, and the copy's regularly transmitted by me to the Commander-in-Chief, and which may be yet in your office, where I have seen them in Mr. Appy's time: and if in a transaction of so long standing I can trust to memory Mr. Mortier can likewise acquaint you that the Ballance due by those Accounts was paid, and that Mr. Hunter's agent received from me about X~300 sterling being the profit accuring from the Sale of the Bills in Carolina. These Facts I Flatter myself will acquit me of having willfully or through neglect postponed at that time the final settlement of those accounts; and as it is evident from the miscarriage of your letter to me and from my actual remote Station, that I could not comply with the orders inclosed in that Letter within the expected time; I earnestly beg if I may presume to ask that favour, that you will be pleased to represent these Circumstances to His Majesty's Secretary at War, that I may not be charged with unnecessary delays in the execution of the said orders. Permit me Sir to return you my grateful thanks for the authentick confirmation of the reduction of Havannah and its dependencies, an event which will remain deeply engraved in the memory of men by the glory acquired by the best Troops in the World, and the melancholy consequences of a conquest so fatal to those brave men. I have the honour to be with great respect Sir, Your most obedt. & most humble Servant HENRY BOUQUET His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst. endorsed. Copy of a Letter to Sir Jeffery Amherst 26th October 1762. relative to the affairs in Carolina. CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 27th October 1762 SIR I have been soe hurried with my accompts that I forgot to mention to you that Doctor Anthony has declined purchasing Mr. Carre's Ensigncy. Serjt Cope desires me to recommend him for a Purchase. The Merchants here will advance him the money. I can say that he has behaved "very well since he has been under my command & has really



Page 172


172

BOUQUET PAPERS.

been useful to the Service, if you can be of service to him it will oblidge me but I leave to your better Judgement. I am Sir Your most obedient humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL Endorsed: Addressed To Colonel Bouquet Commanding His Majesty Forces at Fort Pitt Received by Capt Callender 14th Novr. Capt Campbell 27th Oct 1762 favour of Cope. [A 18-2, p 465] DR. GEO. CHR. ANTHON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.' DETROIT Oct 27th 1762 SIR I do myself the honor to write you with Regard the Purchase of an Ensigncy, Capt. Phillips was so good as to recommend me for the first vacancy. I confess I had a great Inclination for it before knowing I was put on the Establishment of the Hospital, but now finding it will be of no great advantage for me, I take the Liberty to return you hearty thanks for your kind advice and am with great Respect Sir Your most obedient humble Servant GEO. CHR. ANTHON Endorsed: Dr. Anthon Octr 27th 1762 [A 18-2, p 466] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 27th October 1762 "SIR I had the honor to receive your Letter of the 27th of Sept by Capt Callender. We are obliged to you for all the good news sent us. Our success at present in all parts of the world surpasses our most sanguine expectations, all this must bring about a Peace. I would not be sorry for it, as it seems to be the only chance we have to be relieved from these Posts. Major Gladwin has got noe Letters from you, he wrote you from Niagara, the Letters you mention are not come to hand.



Page 173


CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

173

The second vessel is arrived & brought us about four hundred Barrils of Provisions Capt Hopkins Company are sent back to Niagara for the winter to safe Provisions. I am glad to acquaint the General seems to have altered his opinion with regard to the Indians & to allow some Trifles to be given to them at the Posts. I have sent the General my Accompt with the contractions of all the Posts, Mr. Jenkins has the largest accompt but the necessity of the service obliged him to make considerable Presents to the Indians and has brought Provisions for his Garrison, I hope the General will make noe scruple to pay the whole. Major Gladwin is of the same opinion with me, that these expences were unavoidable-I have inclosed the monthly returns of the men who are entitled to their Discharges, there are none of them who seem willing to reinlist again. I have likewise sent a Return of those who have served in the Maryland Service. At your desire I have sent Capeaud Steyner to have his Discharge. I see by the Returns of the Regiment the Serjeants are compleat so I shall be obliged to you to appoint Serjeant Bailes again to my company. Your mare is sent by Capt Callendar she would have been sent sooner but Mr. Jenkins wrote Mr. Macdonald not to send her-as he was afraid she was not good enough for you. I hope you will excuse this short uncorrect Letter as I am much hurried about the cursed accompts. I have inclosed you two Letters from Mr. Lesslye. I am Sir with the greatest Respect Your most obedf Humbl. Servt DONALD CAMPBELL [A 18-2, p 467] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 23rd Nov' 1762 SIR Lieut MacDonald informs me he has wrote you about the Purchase of Captain Schlosser's Company. he believes his money is lodged in Philadelphia, if that answers and noe older officer chooses to purchase I beg leave to recommend him to your Protection & that you will be pleased to mention him to 'the General.



Page 174


174

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Mr. MacDonald has behaved very well since he has been under my command and having been very active in the service. In serving him you will very much.ablige me I am Sir with Respect Your most obedient Humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL Endorsed: Addressed to-:Colonel Bouquet Commanding His Majestys Forces at Fort Pitt Capt Campbell 23d Novr 1762. [A 18-2, p 513] LIEUT. JAMXES MACDONALD TO COL. JIENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 25th Novr 1762. SIR I have taken the Liberty of Inclosing you a Letter.for General Amherst which you'l if you approve of the contents please peruse, seal and forward. It is wrote in consequence of a Letter I received lately from Captain Schlosser whereby I understand that Lieut Carre has purchased Capt. Clause's Company, and in that case, as your always doing good offices I hope you'l recommend me for the purchase of Capt. Schlosser's Company, Provided there are none else in the Battalion who may have a prior right by Ranik, & that are willing to give the sum for which Capt Schlosser agreed to resign in favour of Lieut Carre. I have of this date wrote Mess" Banton & Warton Merchts in Philadelphia & I inclosed them these Letters with Directions to forward them to you, if they have the money ready to advance for me, & as Capt Campbell has wrote you fully upon that head, need say no more upon the subject, but begg leave to refer to his Letter. Three days ago some Batteaus arrived here from Niagara but brought no better news (sic) than we had from your quarter. If this Country produces anything you may want, I shall think myself happy to receive your commands and will with pleasure execute the same. I have the honor to be very respectfully Sir Your most obedient Hum' Serv' JAMES MAODONALD Endorsed: Lieut MacDonald 23d Novr 1762 Received the 5th February 1763. [A 18-2, p 511]



Page 175


List of the men discharged by Major Glddwin belonging to the 1st Battalion of the Royal American Regiment & the men by whom they were replaced Discharged Men's names Of what company For what reason Replaced mens names For aenhstedy Henry Johnas --.-- --..------ Major --- ------------- His time being expired...........-------......--.--.. Peter Vansant-....... 8 years or for the war Henry Wedge...--------------. o -.....--.......--------- He was a negro and since deserted.................... David Wright........ for the war George Terrel.....-----.--.--- Cochrans...---..---... -----. Incurably lame and unfit for service...-----...---- - La Rose Runo--...... Life Charles Brooks.-----.. ---.-- Schlossers....------....---... he was so sickly that he never was able to do service James Adis..........-. 3 years or for the war Adam Robeson ---..---......- do & formerly of Etherington being a sterling fellow & charged with too much family Michel Fullar_-...... Life Jacob Schmorrenberger --.--. do Term of service expired ------...---....--......-----.... John Johns -----..... 3 years or for the war Caspar Bock.-----.....--.. --. do do -...........---...... ------------ John Demaret........ do John McCanne-.......-....--. do Continually sick and unfit for service----....----.--- John Charloy.------.. or war James Lee.....---------------- do is a broke corporal, a very bad man & a bad Tinker..... Stephen McGinniss - Life Adam Hoon.----..------...... -- do Term of service expired --.........-------.------- Rabin Mastiee..--... Life Peter Hartman --..-------. Etheringtons_ --------- ---Term of service expired..--......-..---------------- Freeness Bonnom.-... four years James Brown ---------.--..--. do.-----..-..-..--- Always sickly & charged with family.------......------ Christian Cochran... for war Corp Matthew Fonner....... do..............--- Term expired.---...--.........................-- -----.-- Philip Mobbs--...... do Serjt Wm Brock.----..----. - do --------......... do.----..........-------.....---...---- George Wever.-...--. do Mathew Smith.---...........- do ------------- Sickly and unfit for service----------...---.....------. James Burrell........ do Samuel Davis --....--..---.-- do...----...----. Time nearly expired & having too large a family--...... Cornelius Bennett... 3 years or for war The county money & other expenses have been paid by the men who replace them in their room, also to no charge to the Regiment. The men who equally had finished their Time had no money to enlist other men & they expected their Discharge gratis. The men markt 1r are in Major.Walters List of the new men who had claim to their Discharges. [A 18-2, p 542]

ttl 02 Cj tV w 0 Lbj w. 0 0



Page 176




176 BOUQUET PAPERS. GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 21st Jany 1763 SIR By the Pitt Packet Boat, which arrived this day from Falmouth, I am Honored with a letter from His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State, Enclosing me a copy of the King's Proclamation, Declaring the Cessation of Arms, as well by sea as Land agreed upon between His Majesty, the most Christian King & the Catholick King, in consequence of Preliminaries for Restoring Peace, which were signed by the Respective Ministers of the said Potentates on the 3d Novr last and Ratifyed in due Form & exchanged on the 22d of the same month. You will therefore make this known to the officers commanding at Fort Pitt & the Dependent Posts, that they may acquaint the Troops therewith, & a Due Observance may be had to His Majesty's Proclamation. I am, Sir Your most obedt. Servant JEFF. AMHERST. Colonel Bouquet Endorsed: Letter from His Excellency Sir Jeff. Amherst 21st January 1763. [A 4, p 192] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. NEW YORK 22d January 1763 SIR I received His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst's Letter of yesterday's date, and I shall fothwith acquaint the officer commanding at Fort. Pitt & the Dependent Posts of the Cessation of Arms-between His Majesty the most Christian King & the Catholick King, that the Troops at their respective Posts may be acquainted therewith and a due observance had to his Majesty's Proclamation, agreeably to the orders of yesterday inclosed in your Letter to me. I have the honour to be Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant H. BOUQUET. To Lt. Col. Amherst D. A. General Endorsed: To Col. Amberst 22d Jany 1763 [A 4, p 193]



Page 177


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO LIEUT. GEN. ABERCROMBIE.

177

CAPT. GEO. ETHERINGTON TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. MICHILLIMACKINAC SIR 24th Janry, 1763 I have here inclosed you the monthly returns of my Company up to this day. On the 21st of December I received a letter from Lieut Jamet who commands at the Falls of St.' Marys, where in he informs me that about one o'clock in the morning of the 10th of the same month, a fire broke through the soldier's chimney which communicated itself to Mr. Jamets' House, where the Provisions and Ammunition was log'd-the latter prevented the Soldiers at first from attempting to extinguish the Flames, but in a little time the Powder took fire and blew the Roof of the House, after which the Soldiers did every thing in their Power to put out the Fire, but it was all to no purpose, for in less than an hour from the time that the Gentry discovered the Fire one of the curtains of the Fort with the Officers & Soldiers Barracks was burnt to the ground and all the Provision & Ammunition intirely consumed, which oblig'd Mr. Jamet to send his Garrison here where they arriv'd safe. Mr. Jamet lost everything he had in the World & made a very narrow escape for his life, by getting naked out of a window, he is now if alive in a very miserable condition being burnt to such a degree, that he was not able to come in the Bateau with his men & is now at St. Mary's without either coat, shirt, shoes or stockings, but as tlhe Lake is fast I intend sending an Indian slay for him to-morrow. The other day I had one of my men killed by the fall of a tree. I am Dear Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant Coll: Bouquet. GEO. ETHERINGTON. [A 19-1, p 33.] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO LIEUT. GENERAL ABERCROMBIE. NEW YORK SIR 27th January 1763 I had lately the honor to receive at Fort Pitt your Letter of the 25th April 1762 inclosed me by Lieut Leslie from Michillimakinac. I beg you will be persuaded that it would give me the greatest pleasure to do any service to your kinsman, who is a very deserving 23



Page 178


178

BOUQUET PAPERS.

officer, or to any person who has the honor to be recommended by you. The scattered situation of our Batt" and the Season dont permit me to have him relieved before the Spring. The account we have received of the Cessation of Arms must soon be followed by the decision of our Fate. If I am continued in the service I would be extremely glad of an opportunity to obey your commands in this country. I have the honor to be with great respect Endorsed. To Lieut General Abercrombie 27h Jany 1763 [A 23-1, p 227] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 16th February 1763. SIR, I have just received your Letter of the 13th Instant, with its enclosures: We had the preliminaries by the last post from Boston, one of the Vessels that came out with the Man of War, having arrived at that place: I am however obliged to you for the trouble you took in sending me what news you had learnt. I doubt not but I shall receive some Instructions by the Man of War, but in the iean time, I would have everything forwarded with as much Dispatch as possible, agreeable to my former orders. I believe I shall send Lieut. Brehm to the Detroit, when the Man of War comes in. If the Packett that contained your Vouchers is Lost, it is of very little consequence, as to settling the Affair, by what means it happened, and the only thing to be done if they are lost is to procure Duplicates: In the Copy of the Accompt you delivered to me, I find you give Credit for Three Bills drawn on Plumsted and Franks and One on Mr. Nelson: If you'll let me know which of those Bills have been returned for want of payment, I can grant an order for the amount in your Favor, in case you want the money, & it may be included hereafter in the Accompt when the Duplicate Vouchers are procured. The Speech made by the Indians to Captain Ecuyer contains nothing new: and as you are thoroughly acquainted with my Sentiments regarding the Treatment of the Indians in general, you will, of course order Captain Ecuyer to Relieve such as appear to be objects of Charity, but not to give those who are able to provide for their Families; any encouragement to Loiter away their time in Idleness about the Fort.



Page 179


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST..179

I return you the Soldier's Letter, which is a very extraordinary one: All I have to say thereon is, that if you think he has a right to his Discharge, which must be Decided either by the officer who enlisted him, or if he has no account of the time by the Justice of Peace who attested him, I would by no means detain him; but if his Claim is not Just, what he advances in his Letters ought to be Disregarded, and he, obliged to Behave in a more becoming manner for the future. I am Sir Your most obedt Servt Colonel Bouquet JEFF: AMHERST endorsed Sir Jeffery Amherst 16th February 1763. Received the 20th - [A 4, p 204] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. PHILADELPHIA 7th March:SIR 1763 I received this day your Excellency's Letter of the 1st Instant, Inclosing Mr. Clark's Commission, and an order for two Hundred and Nineteen Pounds, Pensilvania currency, being the amount of three Bills, drawn by me on accompt of Public Services, I shall procure duplicates of the Original Vouchers lost, that a proper warrant may be granted for the whole. Capt. Ecuyer writes me from Fort Pitt of the 21st February that the Delawar Indians had informed him by two messengers that they would deliver all their Prisoners in the Spring. Major Gladwin desires that the Camp Equipage for the Detachment of Royal Americans at the Detroit, be sent early to that Post: as it will be expensive this way, I beg the favor of your Orders for that & other Posts, before I send any. I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir Your &c His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst Endorsed: To Sir Jeffery Amherst 7th March 1763. [A 4, p 208]



Page 180


180

BOUQUET PAPERS.

GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 13th March 1763. SIR I Have received your Letter of the 7th Instant. The sooner the Duplicate Vouchers are procured the better, that your Accompts may be Finally Settled. I cannot Doubt but the Indians will keep their Promise in Delivering up all our People that still remain in their hands, as soon as the weather will permit, for the place, must at once, cutt off all their hopes of encouragement from the French, & they will see the Folly of Disobliging us. I think every corps should be provided with Camp Equipage at all times, to be ready for any services they may be called on; and therefore you will give the necessary Directions for supplying the Different Detachments of the 1st Battalion as early in the Spring as possible. I have a Letter from Major Gladwin, wherein he acquaints me that four Horses are much wanted for the Carrying Place at Miamis, and as they are extravagantly Dear in that Country, he wishes they could be sent from Below. I imagine they can be procured by Captain Ourry at a pretty Reasonable Rate; and therefore I would have you to order him purchase Four good Horses, fit for carrying Burthens, and forward them in the Best and Speediest manner he can contrive, to the Detroit, writing to Major Gladwin that they are sent, by my Orders, for the service at the Miamis. As I am in hourly Expectation of the arrival of a Packett Boat, or Man of War, which, in all Probability will bring Instructions that may oblige me to employ you, I must desire you will postpone your Journey to Maryland, until I receive my Dispatches that you may be in the way in case you should be wanted. I am Sir Your most obedt. servant JEFF AMHERST Colonel Bouquet Endorsed: Sir Jeffery Amherst 13th March 1763. Received the 15th. [A 4, p 209] ______ COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. PHILADELPHIA 17th March 1763. SIR The Camp Equipage of the first Battn R. A. R. will be sent to the



Page 181


INDIAN SPEECH.

181

different Detachments as soon as carriages can go: It has been ready since 1761 but kept in this town by General Monckton's orders. I write to Capt. Callendar to buy four good Horses fit for carrying Burthens at Carlisle where they may be had cheaper than at Bedford, and to send them with his own at the end of this month to the Detroit. Captain Ourry will pay for them & write to Major Gladin that they are sent by your orders for the service of the Miamis. If a Detachment goes down the Ohio a Drafftsman with some Instruments would be useful, to give you a better sketch of that River, as Capt. Basset does not draw very well. There are few axes to spare at Fort Pitt would you approve to have Fifty made at Germantown. Our Contractors being not very expeditious. They will require warning as early as possible to send Flour to Pittsburgh. I shall postpone my Journey to Maryland till I receive your orders. I have the honour to be with great Respect Sir Your most obedient & most Humble Servant His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst HENRY BOUQUET Endorsed: To Sir J. Amherst 17th March 1763. [A 4, p 211] INDIAN SPEECH FORT MIAMIS March 30th 1763. A copy of a Speech made by the Chiefs of the Miamie Indians at the delivery of a Belt of Wampum sent to them from the Shawanee Nation in the winter of the year 1762. MY BROTHER, According to your desire and Treaties with us, I have consulted with our Chief Warriors in respect to this Belt of Wampum which you discovr'd to be in the village and we all think it best to deliver it to you so that you may send it to your General; tho' we were not to let this belt be known of till it arrived at Ouiattonen; And then we were all to Rise & put the English to death all about this place, and those at the other places. This Belt we received from the Shawanee Nation, they received it from the Delawares, and they from the Senicas who are very much i 4



Page 182


182

BOUQUET PAPERS.

enraged against the English. As for the Indian that was the beginner of this we cannot tell him, but he was one of their Chiefs, and one that is always doing mischief, and the Indian that brought it to this place was our Chief who was down at the Grand Council held in Pennsylvania Last Summer. We desire you to send this down to your, General and George Croghan, and let them find out the man that was making this mischief.-For our parts we will be still and take no more notice of their mischief, neither will we be concern'd in it, if we had ever so much mind to kill the English, there is always some Discovery made before we can accomplish our design. This is all we have to say only you must give our young warriors some Paints, some Powder & Ball and some Knives, as they are all going to war against our Enemies the Cherokees. I think to the best of my knowledge this is the contents of what was said at the Delivery of the Belt now sent. ROBT HOLMES Ensign 1 B. R. A. R. Commanding at the Miamis True Copy Endorsed:-An Indian Speech [A 4, p 214] CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 20th April 1763. SIR I have not had the honor to receive a letter from you all the last winter. Capt Dalzeal acquainted me that you proposed to apply to the General to have me relieved from this Place, if there was noe Probability of my commanding here again. I give you Joy of part of the Royal American Regt. standing, I think I have heard you say you did not choose to be a half pay officer. I have enclosed you the Returns of the Detachment by which you will see two men have deserted from Ouiatanon. Captain Etherington has acquainted you of poor Jamaets unlucky accident at St. Mary's. The moment the Soldiers- heard of the Peace, all those that are entitled to their Discharges have been at me. I hope they will not be forgot. Poor Lieut Mac Donald has been troubled with a melancholy disorder for some time past, it proceeded from a Love Affair with one of our young Lady's, the Doctor thinks he would get the better of it if



Page 183


GEO. CROGHAN TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

183

he left this place, and if he continued here it would still be the worse with him. Major Gladwin has consented to give him leave to go to Fort Pitt, but desires you will send an officer to Relieve him. I hope you will grant him all the Indulgencies in your Power, if his health requires his going down the country, he setts out from this place in ten days or fortnight. You will please not mention his situation to the officers, we put on the footing of his going to settle his accompts with the Paymaster. Major Gladwin has sent the Indian Intelligence to Capt Ecuyer. The Indian Andree the Express, says that the Delawares are much exasperated against us and seemed determined to do us all the mischief in their Power, he says they wanted to burn his Letters. I am Sir with the greatest Respect Your most obedient humble Servant DONALD CAMPBELL Endorsed: Capt Campbell 23rd April 1763 Received the 19th May [A 19-1, p 126] GEORGE CROGHAN TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT April 30th 1763. SIn Enclosed I send your Excellency my Accompts, with the Vouchers, from the 1st Nov. to this date, except the Vouchers from Detroit, which are not come to hand; as soon as I get them, shall send them to your Excellency; and request the Favour you will send me a warrant by the Bearer for it, to Mr. Nelson, with orders to Pay the money to Mr. Daniel Clark, mercht. in Philadelphia, to whom I have sent a Power of Attorney to receive it. There has been a number of the Shawanese here and Delivered up Five Prisoners; what passed between them and me I have -furnished Capt. Ecuyer with a copy of, who sends it to Col. Bouquet, by this Express, which I send, that it may be sent to your Excellency for your Perusal. By Letters from Major Gladwin & Capt Campbell at Detroit which I have Received, I understand the Indians in them parts seem uneasy in their minds, since they have heard so much of North America is ceded to Great Britain; and the Indian nations this way seem some

Page 184


184

BOUQUET PAPERS.

what Dissatisfied since they heard it, and says the French had no right to give away their country; as, they say, they were never conquered by any Nation; and I am of opinion, the accounts of the Peace & hearing so much of this country being given up to Great Britain, has thrown them into confusion & prevented their bringing in all our Prisoners, this Spring as they Promised. I am with great Esteem & Regard Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servt. GEO: CROGHAN His Excelly. Sir Jeffrey Amherst &c. &c. &c. Endorsed: Copy Letter from Mr. Croghan to Sir Jeffery Anherst Dated Fort Pitt 30th April 1763. [A 4, p 227] COL. HENRY BOUQUET$TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. PHILADELPHIA llh May 1763. SIR Since my last of the 9h Instant I received the Enclosed Report of Mr. McKee assistant Agent for Indian Affairs at the Shawanese Towns, and the speech made by those savages in delivering Five Prisoners; at Fort Pitt. Captain Ecuyer writes me that the good Flour sent last year from Bedford has been used and that the quantity remaining in store is very bad, and not fit to be used, unless it is mixed with fresh Flour. I beg your Excellency will please to order a supply to that Garrison, and for the Posts depending on Fort Pitt, with some live cattle to save the salt meat which may be wanted to send down the River. Two of our Deserters are in Jayl in this Town, and a third at York Town. They can not well spare men at Fort Pitt to take them to that Post. I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir Your most obedient & most humble Servant HENRY BOUQUET His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst Endorsed:-To Sir Joffery Amherst 1763 [A 4, p 236]



Page 185


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

185

GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 15th May 1763 SIR I have now Three of your letters to acknowledge viz of the 17th April 9th and 11th Instant, the Latter enclosing Mr. McKee's Report -on his Return from the Shawanese Towns, & the Speech made by that Nation, on Delivering Five Prisoners at Fort Pitt. As I received a Letter a few days ago, from Mr. Croghan, on the same subject, I herewith Enclose you a copy of my. answer, as I think the contents of the Letter should be made known to you: I am sorry the Indians should entertain such Idle Notions regarding the Cessions that have been made by the French Crown; But I Trust they will, on due Consideration Deliver up all the Prisoners agreeable to their first Promise, and not Drive us to the necessity of using Harsh Methods, when it is in their Power to secure our Friendship by Voluntary complying with our Requests. The Deserters which are in Jayl in Philadelphia & York Town, must Remain where they are, till I see what movement may be made, and then there may be an opportunity of conducting them to the Battalion. The uncertainty of what numbers may be fixed at Fort Pitt & the Dependent Posts, and of the orders I may Receive regarding that Department, made me Delay entering into the new Contract with the Agents untill I hear from England; but, in the meantime, that the Troops may not suffer, & that we may be in some Degree prepared I Leave it to you to order the Contractors Agents to send up such a quantity of Fresh Flour & Live Cattle as may be absolutely necessary, to prevent any Risque of want, in. Case any Troops should be ordered down the River. I am Sir Your most obedt Servant JEFF: AMHERST P. S. I have declined the Intentions I had of ordering an addition at some of the Posts, for the conveniency of officers &ca on the Road, as in all Probability, we must abandon the small Posts, in every Part, but nevertheless some method will be taken to keep up a proper cominunication. J. A. Colonel Bouquet endorsed: Sir Jeffery Amherst 15th May 1763 Received the 18th. [A 4, p 237] 24



Page 186


186

BOUQUET PAPERS.

INDIAN INTELLIGENCE. Copy of Intelligence brought to Fort Pitt by Mr. Colhoun June 1st, 1763. TUSOARAWAS May 27th 1763 at 11 o'clock at night. King Beaver with Shingos-Whey-ondohila, Winginum, Daniel andi William Anderson, chiefs of the Delawares came & delivered me the following intelligence by a String of Wampum. BROTHER Out of regard to you and the Friendship that formerly subsisted between our Grand fathers and the English which has been lately renewed by us. We come now to inform you with what (Sic) news which we have heard, which you may depend upon is true. Brother, All the English at Detroit were kild Ten Days ago, and not one left alive. At Sandusky all the White People there were kild five days ago, being nineteen in number, except the officer who commanded is taken prisoner, and one Boy, who made his Escape, which we have not heard of. At the mouth of the Twightwe River, Hugh Crawford with one Boy was taken Prisoner, and six men kild. At the Salt Licks we heard to Day, there was kild five white men five days ago. We have likewise seen a number of Tracts on the road between this and Sandusky not farr off, which we are sure is a party coming to cutt you, and your People off, But we have sent a man to watch their motion, and request you may think of nothing you have here, But make the best of your way to some Place of safety, as we would not desire to see you kild in our Town. Be careful to avoid the Road, and every Post where Indians Resort. Brother what goods and other Effects you have here you need not be uneasy about them, we assure you we will take care & keep them safe for six months, perhaps by that time we may see you, or send you word what to expect from us further. And we know there is one white man who belongs to you at Gheyhoga, do. not be concerned for him, we shall take care to send him safe home. Brother, We desire you to tell George Croghan and all your Great men that, they must not ask us anything about this news, or what has happened as we are not at all concerned in it. The nations that have taken up. the Hatchet against you are the Ottawas and Chepawas. And when you first went to speak with these People you did not consult us upon it. Therefore desire you may not expect that we are to account for any mischief they do, and what you want to know aboute this news,



Page 187


INDIAN INTELLIGENCE.

187

you must learn by the same Road you first went. But if you will speak with us you must send one or two men only and we will hear them. Brother, We thought your King had made peace with us and all the Western Nations of Indians, for our Parts we Joyn'd it heartily and desired to hold it allways good, and you may depend upon it we will take care not to be readily cheated or drawn into a war again. But as we are seated on the Road between you and these Nations, who have taken up the Hatchet against you, we desire you will send no Warriors this way till we are removed from this, which we will do as soon as we conveniently can, when we shall permit you to pass without taking notice. Till then we desire the warriors may go by the first Road you went. Gave a String of Wampum. The following is what Mr. Colhoun learned on his way to Fort Pitt from one of three Indians, who were sent by the aforesaid Chiefs to conduct them Here. (viz. Daniel who is before mentioned as one of the above Chiefs.) That Detroit was not really taken, but had been attacked by the Indians four days before the Messenger who brought the news left it, which Mr. Colhoun imagines must have been from about the 13th to the 17th of May, and that the Indians had not then mett with much success, but strongly persisted in carrying on the attack, and said they were determined not to give over till they took it. And that the English had sent out three Belts, and the French two, Desiring them to Desist which they Refused. Mr. Colhoun further says that when him and his Party (14 in number) were setting out from Tuskarawas the Indians refused to let them bring their arms telling them that the three Indians that were going along with them were sufficient to conduct them safe. But that the next day passing Beaver Creek they were fired upon by a Party of Indians.and their Guides immediately disappeared without interfering for them, and he is 'convinced that they were led by these Guides knowingly to this Party to be cutt off from which himself with three of his People have only escaped. Having lost his way and faling in upon the Road leading to Venango, aboute 20 miles above this Post, He saw a number of Indian Tracks that had gone that way. Endorsed: Indian Intelligence received the 10th of June 1763, and forwarded forthwith to Sir Jeff: Amheret. [A 19-1, p 147]



Page 188


188

BOUQUET PAPERS.

S. ECUYER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. (Translation.) FORT PITT 30th May 1763. 9 o'clock P. M. A man Daniel Collet horse driver came to the camp who has made a declaration as follows. That being at Tascerawa with forty four horses in charge of the King's cattle, was warned by Thomas Cohoun to leave at once with all the white men and he would give them three Indians to escort them but being at Beaver Creek they were attacked & he alone came here with much difficulty, he believed all the rest were massacred, having heard seven or eight death cries. He said further that the Indians who had carried the Belt to the Delawares said that Sandusky was attacked (struck) & the officers made prisoners & that when the Indian expresses left Detroit the post was attacked by them, I have the honor to be very respectfully Your very humble & very obedt. Servant -S. ECUYER [A 19-1, p 140] LIEUT. J. OHRISTIE TO LIEUT. GORDON. PRESQU' ISLE 3rd June SIR, 1763. This morning Lieut. Cuyler of Queen's Compy of Rangers came here and gave me the following melancholy account, of his whole Party Being cut off by a large Body of Indians at the mouth of Detroit River the 28th of May about eleven o'clock at night. He tells me he left Niagara the 13th May with 97 men, Ten Batteaux & 139 Barrels of Provisions. He had Serjt Cope & seventeen men of the Royal A. Regiment, the Rest Rangers. Killed: Serjt Cope & 15 Privates of R1. American Regt, Serjt Fislinger & 42 of the Rangers, one woman & child. Lieut Cuyler & 3 Privates wounded-Two dead of their wounds since. He has lost all the Provisions except five Barrels of Pork, Lost also eight Batteaux. He is to return to Niagara to morrow with the two Batteaux he has saved and the Remainder of his command.



Page 189


LIEUT. OURRY TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

189

After the Affair he made the best of his way to Sanduskie, But found it Burnt to the Ground, and every thing des toyed about it. God only knows what became of poor Mr. Pelly & his Party. He also tells me Mr. Schlosser at his Post has met with the same fate. I have sent to Niagara a letter to the Major desiring some more Ammunition & Provisions and have kept six men of Lieut Cuylers as I expect a visit from the Hell-Hounds. I have ordered every body here to move into the Block House and shall be ready for them come when they will. I am Sir Your very humble Servant J- C To Lieut Gordon Endorsed Lient Christie's Letter to Lient Gordon at Venango [A 19-1, p 157] LT. OURRY TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT BEDFORD June ye 9th 1763 DEAR SIR 6 o'clock A. M. I am sending a Party to meet a drove of Cattle I expect from Coll. Cresopr belonging to Capt. Callendar, intended for Detroit. I am most sincerely Dear Sir y r most obedient humble Servant Col Bouquet L' OURRY [A 19-1, p 175]



Page 190


190

BOUQUET PAPERS.

LETTER TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET SHIPPENSBURG June 11th 1763 It appears to me from all the Letters I have from Fort Pitt that no Indians seem to have met with any Hostile tribes thereabouts but the Delawares and from the artful speeches of the Beaver and his Council to Colhoon it seems as if they intended to deny that they were concerned'with this great Breach of faith, should their----- miscarry and not be able to accomplish their design & so solicit their pardons as to the Accts. of Detroit being attack'd by the Ottaways & Cheepaways we have nothing for it but what the Delawares tell us, and by all accounts from Susquehanah and Mr. Hunters Letter to Col Burd from Fort Augusta, it appears to me that the Susquehanah Indians was not acquainted with Mr Byrd-------about the 2nd or 3rd of this month when a Delaware Indian brought the account from Ohio to the great Island, but it is probable that the Nations will join the Delawares and if successful against the small outposts and then no doubt they will fall upon the Frontiers without thdy meet a sufficient check soon-as to Detroit, if those nations which the Delawares say had attacked it prove so, it must fall; as the works are very large, without the French engage heartily & assist the Troops which I fear they will not, as I have been convinced near these twelve months past that the French at the Ilenois has been spiriting up the Indians to cut of our out Posts. all which Intelligence we know. I write to General Amherst for orders abt the French at Detroit were present when all the Designs of the Ottaways and Cheepaways---- ---they have great influence over those nations I am with esteem b and regard Your most humble Servt To Col Henry Bouquet (no signiture in original) If you should meet this out Ples to send Governor hamilton a copy [A 19-1, p 184]



Page 191


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

191

COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO CAPT. ECUYER. PHILAD1 14th June 1763 DEAR SIR The Savages have blundered so much in not attempting to surprize our Posts that we must entertain the most contemptible opinion of their courage and Intellects. Their lies about Detroit give me some Hopes that Sandusky is not lost. I flatter myself that we shall be able to disengage Venango and Le Boeuf if they have Provisions for some time. I am &c [signed] H. BOUQUET To Capt Ecuyer. [A 19-1, p 192] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. PHILADA 16th June 1763. SIR I recd Your Excellency's Letter of 12th and have required Major Campbell to proceed to this Town with the two Companies. We are yet too much in the Dark to form a Plan, but if Things are as represented, I propose to march these two Companies to Fort Pitt, with a convoy of Flour, Sheep and some Powder, which be kept ready at Shippensburgh: and in escorting back the Horses and Drivers clear the Forts of all useless People, and have sufficient Garrisons on the communication to keep it clear and open to further supplies. Any alteration you may think proper to make in that Disposition will come in Time: In the Supposition that the communications with Niagara from Montreal and Albany can be depended upon, I beg you would be pleased to take in consideration whether the Block Houses at Venango & Le Boeuf ought not to be abandoned, and their small Garrisons when disengaged sent to F. Pitt or Presqu' Isle, keeping only this last Post which can be conveniently supplied by the Lake, whereas to support the other two is very precarious, and would require more men than we can spare; without any visable advantage. The communication from F Pitt to the Detroit by Sanduky appears



Page 192


192

BOUQUET PAPERS.

to me impracticable during a war with the Savages; from the too great Distance, through a Country full of Swamps, and cut by Rivers and Creeks, some of which are seldom fordable. The Panick appears General on the Frontiers, which will soon be deserted should these Provinces raise Troops permit me to submit toý you whether they would not be of more service if formed in Ranging Companies composed of Hunters & Woodsmen: who may be had on the Frontiers of this Province but particularly on those of Maryland' & Virginia; and if those Levies were under the Inspection of an officer to reject the Rabble too commonly recd which occasions great expence in Pay & Provisions without doing any Service. We have no Powder here: I shall get some from the Traders in Cumberland County. The Magazine at F. Pitt being liable to be overflowed would you approve of building a small one of the Bastions. Bricks are ready made: a few Bricklayers might be wanted. I shall join Major Campbell at Carlisle and proceed to Bedford to forward what is wanted, and be in the way to act as circumstances may require. I am &c [signed] H. BOUQUET' His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst Endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Sir Jeffery Amherst the 16th June 1763. [A 4, p 273] GEO. CROGHAN TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT BEDFORD DEAR SIR June 17h 1763 I just now received your favour of ye 14h. As the man who carries it to Carlisle is just seting out, I have only Time to acknowledge ye Receipt of itt, I wrote you from Shippensburge ye eleventh to w' Instant Refer you for my opinion of the Indians beheaver att this time till I hear from Fort Pitt. As no express has come down this 12 days, I have Reson to think ye place is invested so that none can safely escape them. Butt they can no Longer continue there In my opinion ye. fine Cattle there abouts w"' may fall Into their way can suport them the Dallaways in my opinion are ye. people who has begun this Suden Warr & if ye Ottoways and Cheepways has attackt Detroit I Belive itt will be found that ye french was acquainted with their Designs I imagine ye Dallaways will Remove over ye Sackes or over ye Missisipee phaps this may be a stroke of policy in ye french to gett as many Indian Nations as they can to go to ye country over Missisipi



Page 193


GEN. JEFFERY AMRERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

193

wh they have to people as well to make themselves respectable with their Indian Aleys as to secure as much of the Indian Trade as they can. I am Dear Sir y' most Humble Servt GEO: CROGHAN To Coll: Henry Bouquet [A 19-1, p 207] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 19th June 1763 SIR I Have Received your Letter of the 16th Instant and I approve entirely of the Disposition you proposed to make of the two companys: for at present the first thing to be thought of is to secure the Principal Forts and Communication: You will see by the enclosed Duplicate of my Letter of yesterday, that another company is ordered to march to Philadelphia, and therefore you will Leave Directions for the commanding officer to follow you. The Remains of the 42d shall likewise proceed to Philadelphia for the same service should there be a necessity for them: But the small Remains of the 77th which scarce amount to one company, are so feeble and weak, with* the West India Distemper, that I Fear that they will not be able to go on Service. I have sent Captain Dalyell to Niagara, and he will have attention to the supplying Presqu' Isle from thence with Reinforcements of men, or whatever else the Garrison may stand in need of, which I hope will arrive in time to prevent its Falling into the Hands of the Indians, should they attack it, especially as they got a few men, & a small supply of Provisions from the officer of Hopkin's Rangers, that was obliged to return to Niagara, after having been great part of the way to the Detroit, the Indians having attacked & Routed his Detachment. The abandoning of any.Posts at such time, when the Indians are committing Hostilities must be attended with the worst of consequences, Wherefore altho' the Posts at Venango and Le Boeuf may be of Little Advantage to us yet I cannot think of giving them up, at this time if we can keep them, as such a step would give the Indians Room to Imagine themselves more Formidable than they really are, and it would be much better we never attempted to take post in what they call their country, if upon every Alarm, we abandon them. 25



Page 194


194

BOUQUET PAPERS.

There is no Doubt but it is in the power of the Indians, if they exert their utmost Force, to cutt off some of those small Posts before we can send the necessary Reinforcements as the Troops at present here, are so few and so widely scattered, but an attack on any fixed Post thoe' so thinly Garrisoned, ought to cost the Indians so Dear, that they should not make a second attempt of the kind. It remains at present for us to take every Precaution we can, by which we may put a stop as soon as possible to their committing any further mischief, and to bring them to a proper subjection, for without that I never do expect that they will be Quiet and Orderly, as every act of kindness & generosity to those Barbarians is looked on as proceeding from our Fears, I Dont however the Less mean to treat them well, provided they Behave quietly, and are Deserving of good usage. The Provincials that may be furnished on this Occasion, if put under your command, you can always Employ as you Judge best, Either as Rangers or Woodsmen, and I would not Desire them to be Raised upon a Different Footing than usual, as I am persuaded Difficulties would be Immediately started to any new Proposal. The Powder Magazine at Fort Pitt being liable to be overflowed is Indeed a very unlucky Circumstance: but I hope, at present, no such Accident will happen: such Temporary precautions as can be taken to preserve the ammunition, you will of course, attend to. You will, from time to time, acquaint Govr Hamilton, to whom I now write of every thing Extraordinary that may happen, and. that you think should be made known to him: I enclose you a copy of my Letter to the Governor. I Have only to add that should the Indians have been able to Do mischief at the Detroit, or the upper Posts, for as yet I have no accounts from thence, I must collect all the Force I possibly can at Niagara & Presqu' Isle, and take such measures as may not only Reduce the Savages, but Retake and keep possession of the several Posts that may have been taken from us: and for securing the coiuntry in such an effectual manner, as to prevent any future Danger from the Attempts of the Savages. I enclose you a copy of my Letter to the Contractors agents, in answer to one I have Received from them. I am Sir Your most obedt servant JEFF AMHERST. Colonel Bouquet Endorsed: Letter from His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst dated 19th June 1763 [A 4, p 277]



Page 195


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

195

GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO GOV. HAMILTON. NEW YORK 19th June 1763. 3IR I am to own the Favor of your Letter of the 16th Instant; and am glad to find the Commissioners had agreed with you to apply the Remainder of the Publick Money Raised last year for Levying without Delay, a Reinforcement of ninety men, for the Relief of the Garrison -of Fort Augusta; I hope this Reinforcement will arrive in good time for the Protection of that Garrison. I am taking every measure in my power to assemble all* the Force' I can, so as to be prepared for the worst that can happen: The motions of the Savages seem to be more general, than I had at first Imagined: What has stirred them up to this I know not, unless it has been owing to a War Belt which was:sent some time ago from the French to the Southward, and is supposed to-have been Laying with the Miamis ever since. The Alarm of the Back Settlers is but too natural on such Occasions; but I should hope your Assembly would without hesitation, readily enable you to Raise men for the Protection of their own People; and therefore the sooner you convene them, the better; tho' you are no doubt the Best Judge of what can be expected from them. I write to Colonel Bouquet, that he may advise you, from time to time, of everything extraordinary that may happen and I Flatter myself,every thing will soon be put again on a proper Footing. I am with great Regard Sir &ca JEFF: AMHERST Honbie Govr. Hamilton endorsed: Copy Letter from Sir Jeffery Amherst to Govr Hamilton.Dated N. York 19th June 1763 [A 4, p 281] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. PHILADELPHIA the 23d June S IR 1763 Since I dispatch'd my Letter by Mr. Murphy I Receiv'd-an Express from, Fort' Pitt with Letters dated the 16th Inst. Capt. Ecuyer writes me that Fort Pitt is in good state of Defence against allt attempts from Savages who are dayly firing upon the Fort; Unluckily the Small Pox has broke out in the garrison for which he



Page 196


196

BOUQUET PAPERS.

has built an Hospital under the Drawbridge to prevent the spreading of that Distemper. A Serjeant of the Militia who was near the glacis with a party to cut grass was kill'd but not scalp'd. The 7th a Batteau arrived there from Venango with the Inclos'd acct from Presqu' Isle which you have had before, it only confirms the loss of St. Dusky. The Ship Carpenters have been of the greatest Service in the Repairs of the Fort, as they could not be sent down without an Escort. I have the Honour to be with great Respect Sir Your most obedient and most Humble Servant His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst Endorsed-Copy of a Letter from Col Bouquet to Sir Jeffery Amherst 23 Jane 1763 by Mr. Allen [A 4, p 284] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 23d June 1763. SIR Since my Last I have Received a Letter from Major Gladwin by the way of Niagara, dated the 14th May, wherein he acquaints me of the Case and Treacherous Behavior of the Indians, who had actually Invested the Fort and were committing hostilities, altho' he did not Doubt but he should be able to Defend the Place until Reinforcements arrived. He writes me that the Chief of the Ottawas who seems to be the Principal Ringleader of this mischief, sent a message that he, with a considerable number of Indians Intended to pay the Major a Friendly visit, and accordingly on the 18th May a Body of about Three Hundred came to the Fort, but the Major getting Information the night before that their designs were bad, made such a Disposition that the Indians who were armed with Knives, Tomahawks & Guns, cutt short & hid under their Blankets, were confounded and after making a short Speech and Receiving a few Presents, they went off. That immediately after they sent parties who murdered some of our people who unfortunately were at a distance from the Fort among whom were Sir Robert Davers, Lieut Robertson & their Boats' crew. Lieut Robertson having been employed in sounding the entrance of Lake Huron & Sir Robert had accompanied him: The Villains after this had the assurance to come,



Page 197


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

197

with a Pipe of Peace, Desiring admittance into the Fort. Major Gladwin refusing to Receive any but their Chiefs, they immediately commenced open Hostilities by killing the King's Cattle, and murdering the People who had the Care of them, and then Fired upon the Fort, on which however they could make no Impression, Major Gladwin being well provided, by that time, with Provisions and Ammunition. Everything Major Gladwin mentions to have done on that Occasion, has my Approbation, I only Regret that when the Chief of the Ottawas & the other Villains Returned with the Pipe of Peace, they were not instantly put to Death. I conclude Major Gladwin was not apprized of the murder of Sir Robert Davers, Lieut Robertson, &ca at that time, or he certainly have Revenged their Deaths by that Method & Indeed I cannot but wish that whenever we have any of the Savages in our Power, who have in so Treacherous a way committed any Barbarities on our People, a Quick Retaliation may be made without the least exception or hesitation. Major Wilkins on the arrival of the Schooner with this news, Immediately sent a Reinforcement of Fifty Men, with a Lieutenant & non-commissioned officers, which I hope may have got very Seasonably to Major Gladwin's Relief. This makes not the least alteration to any plan I had fixed upon, before.I received this advice as I am determined to take every measure in my power, not only for securing & keeping entire possession of the country but for punishing those Barbarians who have thus perfidiously Massacred His Majesty's Subjects. To effect this most essential Service, I intend to collect agreeable to what I wrote you in my Last, all the Force I can at Presqu' Isle & Niagara, that I may push them forward as occasion may require. I have therefore ordered the Remains of the 42nd & 77th Regts., the first consisting of 214 men Including officers, & the Latter of 133 men officers Included, which will march this morning or early tomorrow morning under the command of Major Campbell of the 42nd who has my orders to send an officer before to acquaint you of his being on the march & to obey such further Directions as he may Receive from you. Sir John St. Clair who is here assured me that the best Route is by Newson, Ashton &ca. and avoid the Town of Philadelphia. I have Recommended to Major Campbell to pursue that Route, as I wish to have these Corps at Pittsburgh as soon as possible; and I would not have any of the 42nd, and as few of the 77th as may be, Left behind on the Communication, for the Reasons I have Just now given you. You will observe that I have now forwarded from hence every man that was here, for the small Remains of the 17th Regt. are already



Page 198


198

BOUQUET PAPERS.

on their March up the Mohawk & I have sent such of the 42nd & 77th as were not able to march to Albany, to Relieve the Company of the 55th at present there who are to march Immediately to Oswego. Sir Wm Johnson in a Letter I received two Days ago gives it as his opinion that the turning the Cherokees, Catawabas &c. against the Indians concerned in the present mischief would answer many good ends. To which I have answered that he is no doubt the best Judge of the Disposition of the Indians & consequently of the methods most likely to succeed in engaging them to fall upon one another, but that at present our chief attention must be to Regain as soon as possible the entire command of the country, &ca. Just as I am writing this Mr. Franks has come in, and has Delivered me your Letter of the 19th, Enclosing the Duplicate Vouchers of your accompts which shall be examined when the hurry is over. I am Sir Your obedt Servt. JEFF: AMHERST Colonel Bouquet. P. S. The number of officers with Major Campbell, bear no proportion, to the men particularly those of the 77th, I am however glad to send you the whole, as the officers must be of great service to you on this occasion; For five or Six Men, with a Proper Officer at their head may often do more than three times the number under a Serjeant or Corporal. J. A. Endorsed: Letter from Sir Jeffery Amherst 28d June 1763. [A 4, p 285] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 25th June 1763. SIR Last night I received your letter of the 22d Instant, with it several Enclosures *& this morning that of the 23d with the Intelligence &ca from Mr. Croghan, came to Hand. I Have perused Capt Ourry's Letters & entirely approve of the measures taken by him for the Security of Fort Bedford & the Communication. The Behaviour of the Inhabitants in so Rashly throwing themselves into the power of the Indians, without the least Intention or Resolution to Defend themselves, is Indeed very unaccountable, and attended with Bad consequences, as it encourages the Savages to Repeat their attempts.



Page 199


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

199

Their success in Defeating Lieut Cuyler's party I fear has been a great means of spiriting up the Indians below, as they have no Doubt Flattered themselves with the Hopes that the Detroit and the Upper Posts were likewise cutt off: What Mr. Croghan mentions with Regard to the part he believes the Delawares, ahd the other nations, in General, Intend to play on this occasion, I think it very Just and I am persuaded it will turn out exactly so, whenever they meet with a proper check. My opinion with Regard to the Indians that are in our power, is, that they should Remain as prisoners; as I am convinced they would be among first, they were Let Loose, that would Joyn the others: I however leave it to you, to send one of those now at Fort Bedford, in order to obtain Intelligence, according as you may Judge proper. I have already told you, that all the Troops from hence, that could be collected, are sent you: and these are indeed more, and in a better condition, than I expected; so that should the whole Race of Indians take arms against us, I can, do-no more: The Province, I am hopefull, will enable the Governor to Raise some men for its protection and Defence, on so critical an occasion; and as I mentioned in my Last, the Great number of Regular officers, will certainly, prove very usefull to you especially should any Provincials be furnished. I write again to Governor Hamilton, on the subject, pressing him to use his utmost Influence with the assembly & Likewise that I expect the Legislature will immediately pass a Law to compell the Inhabitants to furnish carriages, as without so Essential a help, it will be Impossible to Effect this service, which is not only Intended for the preservation of the Country in General, but for the Immediate Security and Defence of the Province of Pensylvania in particular. I approve of Mr. Croghan's having Raised the 25 Men to Garrison Fort Littleton, which appears to have been very necessary; and I think it but reasonable that Expence should be Defrayed by the Province, for which purpose I also write to the Governor: But I am to Acquaint you (for your own Information only) that as I never will permit any officer of the Crown to be a Loser by Exerting himself for the good of the service, should the Province of Pensylvania absolutely Refuse to Defray this Expense, it shall not fall on Mr Croghan, for it shall be paid by the Crown. You may acquaint Mr. Croghan, that I have from time to time Informed Sir W"' Johnson of every Intelligence I have Received, and that his Letter to Sir William, with the enclosures, shall be forwarded to him.



Page 200


200

BOUQUET PAPERS.

The Resolution of Ensign Christie, in being prepared for the Defence of his Post, gives me great pleasure; and I doubt not but Major Wilkins will have sent him the Ammunition & Provisions he Required. It was very lucky that the ship Carpenters had not left Fort Pitt before this affair happened, as'they must be of great use there. Sir John St Clair never told me that his Health would not permit him to act; and as the service Requires his presence on the communication, I shall Immediately order him thither. I have furnished Messrs Plumsted & Franks with a credit for money to procure carriages &ca. But have Recommended to them, to Drive Live Cattle, & to send a sufficiency of Bread along with the Troops, which would not only be more conducive to the Men's Healths, but save a great expense in the Transportation of Salt Provisions. With Regard to Captain Ogle's Recruits I have thought of them as well as the other partys belonging to the corps in the West Indies, but as these Regiments are expected these two months past, and that when they arrive they must be compleated, I think it would be wrong to send those Recruits upon Service as they would only take that opportunity to Desert and go off. I am Sir Your most obedt Servt. Colonel Bouquet JEFF AMHERST P. S. I enclose you under Flying Seal, for your perusal, my answer to a Letter I have received from a Trader at Fort Pitt Representing the great Loss he, among others, has sustained by the Ravages of the Indians and his Fears of a peace being patched up by the Province without any Regard to the great Damages the Indians have Done to the Traders. J. A. Endorsed:-Letter from Sir Jeffery Amherst dated the 25th Jane 1763 Received the 30th [A 4, p 292] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. NEW LANCASTER SIR 25th June 1763 P. M. I had this moment the Honour of Your Excellency's Letter of the 23d Instant with the most welcome news of the Preservation of Detroit from the infernal Treachery of the vilest of Brutes: I regret sincerely



Page 201


ENSIGN J. PRICE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

20

the brave men they so basely massacred, but hope that we shall soon take an adequate Revenge on the Barbarians. The Reinforcement you have ordered this way, so considerable by the additional number of officers, will fully enable me to crush the little opposition they may dare to offer along the Road, and secure that Part of the Country against all their future attempts, till you think proper to order us to act in conjunction with the rest of your Forces to extirpate that Vermine from a Country they have forfeited and with it all Claim to the Rights of Humanity. The Route recommended by S' J St. Clair is good & shorter but I doubted whether the Troops not be retarded that way on account of Provisions & carriages-The two first Companies will be at Carlisle 28th from whence I propose to Detach a Party, to Proceed by a shorter way to Bedford & if safe, to Ligonier, to reinforce immediately that Post till I can follow with the convoy-I shall leave no men of the 42d Regt and as few as possible of the 77th upon the communication and only such as, by weakness, cannot easily proceed further. I have no Pretention to be a Judge of Indian Affairs, but I should be sorry we should ever appear to be under the least obligation to the perfidious Cherokees, and as to the Catawabas they are no more a nation; I would rather chuse the Liberty to kill any Savage that may come in our way than to be perpetually doubtful whether they are Friends or Foes. I cannot finish this Letter without returning my grateful Thanks to your Excellency for this early communication of an Event so Important as the Safety of the Detroit and of so many good men. I have the Honour &c [signed] HENRY BOUQUET His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst Endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Sir Jeffery Amherst dated the 25th June 1763 [A 4, p 296] ENSIGN J. PRICE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT PITT 26th June 1763 SIR I arrived here this morning from Le Boeuf which I abandoned the 18th at night. The 3rd Inst I had an Express from Christie with the news of Lieut 26

u



Page 202


202

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Keiler's defeat &c which I immediately forwarded to Venango & I have heard since I got in was sent to you. Another Express the 13th arrived, I forwarded it likewise, but has never been heard of since & Capt. Ecuyer has therefore desired me to give you the Heads relating to it. About the 12th Christie seeing a sail standing towards Niagara sent a Batteau on board thinking the master not inclin'd to put in and by a Corporal who had it from Captain Newman's mouth learn'd the following particulars. vizt. That on or about the 1st of May 1,500 Indians arrived at Detroit and wanted to hold a Treaty in the Fort, but Major Gladwin being told by Monsieur Barnby that if they were admitted they would fall upon and destroy every man in it, ordered the garrison under arms, which the Chief of the Indians seeing asked if he was afraid. The next day they came all to gether and repeated their former request of admittance and being refused began to Fire ending that day with the loss of 40 of their men & wounding but a few of ours. Captain Campbell & Lieut McDougal were sent to enquire what was the cause of their behaviour and were detained tho the Indians sent in two of their own People as Hostages. A day or two preceeding these Transactions they kill'd S' Robert Devers, Capt. Robinson, Mackay & one Fisher (a Trader) as they were out sounding the Lake and returning to Fisher's House, Hang'd his wife and took the rest of his Family Prisoners. Detroit had been two weeks besieged when- Capt Newman came out of the River to convey Lieut Keiler in and the Garrison were living upon a little Provision of (sic) Barley then. He was three weeks after before he saw Presqu' Isle being detained by contrary winds and was afraid all the upper Posts were cut off. He was fired upon coming out of the River and Captain Campbell was sent on board to know if he would strike,* and they would spare the lives of all on board, but he sent them word he was determined to fight his way & did. The 18th Instant I was attaeked and the Indians taking possession of the lower Store fired my House with their Arrows, so that I was obliged dto retreat out of it in the night which I did unseen & brought in with me seven men-six are still in the woods, but I hope will get in safe somewhere. We arrived at Venango the 20th at one at night and found the Block House burned to the Ground.

d



Page 203


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

203

I am a little fatigued but in good health as most of those that came with me. I hope soon to have the pleasure of seeing you & am Sir Your most obedient and most Humble Servant G. PRICE. Coll: Bouquet Endorsed: Letter from Ensign Price to Col. Bouquet Date F. Pitt 26th June 1763 [A 19-1, p 221] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 29th June. 1763 SIR Last night I received your Letter of the 25th the Contents of which please me very much, your sentiments agreeing exactly with my own, regarding the Treatment the Savages Deserve from us. A Proper Spirit exerted now may be the happy means of preserving the Lives of many of His Majesty's Subjects hereafter: I need only add, that I wish to hear- of No Prisoners, should any of the Villains be met with in arms; and who ever of those who were concerned in the murder of Sir Robert Davers, Lieut Robertson &ca or were at the attack of the Detachment going to the Detroit, and that may be hereafter taken, shall certainly be put to Death. I have nothing new from above since my Last: I find by a Letter from Capt Cochrane (who is coming this way to proceed to Presqu' Isle by Oswego &ca) that Captain Stuart, with the company of the 42nd was to set out from Philadelphia as yesterday having halted there two days to rest his men: I hope Major Campbell with the Remains of the two Regiments will find Sir John St. Clair's Route much better and shorter than by Philadelphia, and that he will soon be with you: By a Return of the Remains of the 77th which I received after my Letter of the 23d, it appears that the one from which I took the numbers was false; for there are sixteen Rank & File more than I mentioned. Sir John St. Clair left this place the day before yesterday, and has my orders to concerning what she Requests and acquaint me of Your Success that I may be enabled to give her all the Satisfaction in my Power.. J.A. I have sent Directions to the officers commanding at Fort Ontario &



Page 204


204

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Niagara not to permit any of the Traders to pass their Posts with goods; and you will please to take the like care at Fort Pitt & the communication until the Savages are Entirely Reduced & everything again put on a Proper Footing for I Judge it of the utmost consequence to prevent the Indians from having it in their Power to get any more goods &ca than have already unfortunately fallen into their hands. J. A. Endorsed: Sir Jeffery Amherst 29th June 1763 Received the 6th July by Capt Grant [A 4, p 298J GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK SIR 2nd July 1763 Since my last I have received nothing new either from your way or the Albany Communication; but I flatter myself I shall soon have good accounts from the Upper Country. In the mean time I make no alteration in my former Plan of pushing forwards all the Troops that can be spared to Presqu' Isle & Niagara. I believe I Did not mention to you before that I Do not intend you yourself should go farther than Fort Pitt, as I would have you Remain there, for forwarding all the Services that may be Required on the Communication and to be in Readiness for going down the River, agreeable to what I formerly acquainted you of, should I receive Directions from Home for that Purpose. I should be very glad should the Shipwrights who are now at Fort Pitt, were sent to Presqu' Isle, so soon as the communication is safe: that they may be employed in Building some craft for the Lake, for which purpose I have wrote to Captain Loring & Major Gladwin & they will Receive their orders from Captain Loring.-This is a very essential service, & therefore the sooner the Shipwrights can get to Presqu' Isle the better. Major Gladwin is to have the command of the Troops engaged in the Retaking possession of any of the Posts in the Upper Country that may have fallen into the hands of the Indians, as well as for securing that part of the Country for the future; for which I have sent him the necessary Directions, and as I have acquainted him of the 42nd and 77th Regiments, that are ordered by the way of Fort Pitt, and which are likewise to be included in the Reinforcements Intended for him I would have you advance such part of them, as you from the advices you may receive, shall Judge necessary, Directing Major Campbell or the officer you send with them, to proceed to Presqu' Isle; and



Page 205


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

205

to follow and obey such further orders as he my receive from Major Gladwin. I am Sir Your most obedt Servant Colonel Bouquet JEFF AMHERST. P. S. I enclose you a copy of a Letter I have received from the Daughter of the Late Colonel Clapham, that you may make Enquiry proceed directly to the Communicatiom, advising you of the Place where he may be, that he may either continue on the communication for Forwarding everything that may be wanted, or proceed to Fort Pitt, as you may Judge best; I have furnished him with a credit for Five Hundred pounds Pensylvania Currency, to answer any necessary expenses that may be incurred in his Department. I am Sir Your most obedt. Servt Colonel Bouquet JEFF AMHERST endorsed: Sir Jeffery Amherst 29th June 1763 Received the 6th July [A 4, p 304] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. CARLISLE 3rd July 1763. SIR An Express from Fort Pitt brings this moment the fatal Account of the Loss of our Posts at Presqu' Isle, Le Boeuf and Venango. Your Excellency will see in the enclosed Letters all the particulars I had of the unexpected Disaster. As the Destruction of the important Post of Presqu' Isle will occasion some alteration in your first Plan, I beg you wilt favor me with your Orders concerning the Troops you have destined for this Department. By the inclosed Return of Provisions at Fort Pitt, that Post does not stand so immediately in need of a relief as to make us run great Risks to force a convoy up, before the Provinces can give us some assistance. I doubt if on account of the Harvest Pensilv" can have Troops raised and equipped in less than six weeks or two months, during which time they are-incapable of any defence, for want of a Militia Law. The Savages must soon disperse for want of Provisions and their first Impetuosity cooled, they will be more easily dealt with.



Page 206


206

BOUQUET PAPERS.

I shall however move forward as soon as I can collect the Horses & Carriages I want which the great consternation and flight of the Inhabitants niakes very difficult. I have required the Governor to send them Arms and Ammunition and proposed to collect the People in this Frontier in a few well Stockaded Places inclosing Mills, as a Retreat for themselves, their Families and Provisions, to keep possession of the Country, and, if the Enemy should penetrate, destroy all kinds of Eatables which could not be secured in their Strong Holds, and might fall in the Hands of the Savages, but from the nature of this Government, I suppose nothing will be done in time. The second Company of the 42nd will be here the 5th and I expect the Remains of the two Regiments on the 6th or seventh. I have secured all the Provisions I could get in this country, 100 head of cattle, 200 sheep & about 3000 lbs of fine Powder from the Indian Traders. I expect the Flour and Waggons from Lancaster by the 8th. I received your Letter of the 25th June and shall continue in the Service the men so timely raised by Mr. Croghan, which the Province will I hope take into their Pay. I am &c [Signed] H. B. I enclose Mr. Croghan's Letter to Sir W"' Johnson open. His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst Endorsed:-Copy of a Letter to Sir Jeffery Amherst the 3rd of July by the Express. I. Glen [A 4, p 304] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK SIR 7th July 1763 Last night I received your Letter of 29th June: And early this morning an Express brought me that of the 3rd Instant. The loss of Presqu' Isle (which I fear is too true, altho' it may happen that the Soldier who gave the Account may prove to be a deserter) gives me great Concern: But it must make no alteration in my plan: There seems to have been an absolute necessity for my sending you all the Troops I could for the protection of the Inhabitants, otherwise the Savages would have spread their Depredations all over the country: They will now retire as you advance and I would have you follow the same Directions, I have already given you for



Page 207


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

207

Sendings Troops forward to Presqu' Isle notwithstanding this Disaster, only observing to send them in such a manner that their march may be secure, -and that they may be able to encounter any Body of Indians that can attack them. I write immediately to Niagara, and shall try to send Troops, from thence to retake possession of Presqu' Isle: The orders I have already sent to Major Gladwin, of which you have been acquainted, are to that Purport: I shall now acquaint him of this Loss, and I wish I could send,him immediately some more Force: Should any of the corps from the West Indies come this way, I shall Lose no time in forwarding them to Niagara to strengthen the Force already sent; but, in the meantime, we must Do the best we can with the numbers we have. I write again to Governor Hamilton; and I trust the Province will now Enable him to Raise a sufficient Force to protect the Back Settlements, -while the Regulars are employed in chastizing the Savages. On your arrival at Fort Pitt, you will, of course, get Rid of the women and children and Useless Hands as fast as can be Done with their safety, for the Article of Provisions is a very material one & must be attended to. I shall forward Mr. Croghan's Letter with the other Papers to Sir Wm. JohrlSon; I had a Letter from him last night by which I find that the Six Nations continue Quiet, and Sir William is in hopes they will not be concerned with any of those Tribes who are now committing Hostilities against us. Captain Ecuyer seems to act with great Prudence and I approve of every thing he mentions to have done. A Fixed Resolution should be taken by every commanding officer whose Post is attacked by Savages never to trust to their Promises but to Defend his Post to the last Extremity and to take every occasion he can of putting them to Death while they are attempting to take etery Life away that they can; We have so many Recent Instances of their Breach of Faith, in this Particular, that I am surprized any officer in his senses, would enter into Terms with such Barbarians.. I am Sir Your most obedt. Servant JEFF. AMHERST. Colonel Bouquet Endorsed: Sir Jeffery Amherst 7th July 1763. Received at Carlisle the llth Do. [A 4, p 306]



Page 208


208

BOUQUET PAPERS.

MAJOR HENRY GLADWIN TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT July 8th 1763. DEAR SIR, I did myself the pleasure of writing you by the Bearer hereof about two months ago-three weeks after we were attacked, but yesterday he returned without delivering my Letters, and reports that he lost them when he made his escape from the Delawares, who detained him some time, for which occasion, as he had nothing to show, he did not chuse to go to Fort Pitt, as he might be suspected of ill designs, be that as it may, I have trusted him again with another Packet for the General, I hope he will reach you safe. I am very sorry to acquaint you that all the out Posts are cut off, for further particulars I refer you to the enclosed papers. I should have given you a detail of our proceedings here had not Lieut MoDonald wrote fully on that subject to Lieut Carr, to which I refer you, but before I conclude I cant omit this occasion of recommending to you the officers and men under my command for supporting the fatigue of this long affair with spirit and patience worthy notice. I have heard but once from Niagara since the commencement of this sad affair, I should be glad to know what Troops I may expect and who commands. It would also be very satisfactory to know what Troops are coming your way, and what has been done by the Enemy in your quarter. The bearer has a great deal to say to the Delawares, he can let you into their designs if he chuses it. Be kind enough to receive him well, and dismiss him as soon as possible. I should be glad if you can favour me with some" late Papers. I am Dear Sir Your most obedient & very humble Servant HENRY GLADWIN. P. S. Present my Compliments to the Gentlemen with you. Endorsed Letter from Major Gladwin dated at the Detroit the 28th July 1763. Received by Andrew the 22d August Answered the 2.8th do. [A 19-1, p 278] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST NEW YORK 10th July 1763 SIR I think it necessary to acquaint you that 1 have applyed to Sir William Johnson. to endeavor to procure Three or Four good trusty



Page 209


ENSIGN JOHN CHRISTIE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

209

Indians, & to send them to Captain Dalyell, to be employed in giving your Intelligence of his motions, as there may be occasion. The Signal to Distinguish them to be a Green Bough in the muzzle of their guns which you will of course, give orders that it may be observed: And should you think necessary to send any Trusty Indian to Presqu' Isle for Intelligence, let him follow the same signal of which I have also given notice to Captain Dalyell. I have wrote particularly to Capt: Dalyell to take care to have a proper supply of Provisions ready at Presqu' Isle against the arrival of the Troops from Fort Pitt I have nothing new since my Last, but a Letter from Major Wilkins of the 25th June, when all was quiet at Niagara; but Three men were missing, one who had gone out to Look for some of the Trader's Cattle, and the other Two coming from the Post above the Falls, & I fear they have fallen into the Hands of some of the Sculking Villains. I am Sir Your most obedt Servant JEFF AMHERST Colonel Bouquet Commanding the Troops in the Southern Department. Endorsed:--Letter from Sir Jeffery Amherst 10th July 1763 [A 4, p 311] ENS!GN JOHN CHRISTIE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. FORT DETROIT SIR 10th July 1763 I am sorry to have to acquaint you of my misfortune. On the 20h June at Daybreak I was surrounded at my Post at Presqu' Isle by about Two Hundred Indians, A quarter of an hour after they began to Fire on the Block House and continued all that day very smartly-Likewise Fire arrows were thrown into the Roof of the Block house and Bastions. I received my greatest hurt from the two hills, the one ascending from the Lake, the other from the bottom, they having made holes in the night to secure themselves. Notwithstanding two or three did their endeavour to get in the French were killed which made them cease firing some hours at which time they was imploy'd digging of Passes through the earth In order to get at the bottom of the house. 27



Page 210


210

BOUQUET PAPERS.

21st They commenced firing as hot as ever and also with Fire Arrows, which set the house a second time on Fire, the same day the Barrels of water I had provided was spent in extinguishing said Fires and found it impossible to get at a well which was sunk on the Parade, therefore was obliged to sink one in the house by hard Labour. Whilst we were digging to get at the well we were again set on fire but got it extinguished by throwing off some shingles from the roof. At the same time they had approached as far as the Commanding officers Room on the Parade, they set it on fire and communicated it to the Faishens round the Fort we continued our Firing till midnight when one of them whom spoke French answered me it was in vain to pretend to hold out for they could now set fire to the house when they pleased if I would not surrender. we could expect no quarter seeing they had made their approaches aforesaid. That they could set me on fire above & below my men being fatigued to the greatest extremity & not being able to extinguishing such firing & resist their numbers, I asked them in English if there was any amongst them that understood that Language, an Englishman then called up to me that if I ceased my firing he would speak with me, he told me they were of the Wim Nation, that had been compelled to take up arms by the Ottawas agt. Detroit that there was part of other nations with him that they only wanted the house and that they would have now soon that I might have Libberty to go with my Garrison where I pleased. I desired them to leave of their firing and I would give them an answer in the morning early. After considering my situation and of the Impossibility of holding out any longer, I sent out two soldiers as if to treat with them that they may find out their Disposition & how they had made their approaches and to give me a Signal if they found what I imagined to be true, finding it to be so, and the vessel hovering between the two points all the while I was engaged could give me no assistance I came out with my People they then take us prisoners myself and four Soldiers and a woman was brought to the Wiandote Town the rest of my Garrison. was taken by the other Nations; I was Delivered up to Detroit with one soldier and a woman, they other two they killed at their town the night I arrived there. I was delivered up to Fort Detroit the 9h Instant. I am Sir Your most obt hble Servt JOHN CHRISTIE P. S. All the Forts beyond this have met with the same fate. Capt.



Page 211


SIR WILLIAM JOHNSON TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

211

Campbell, Lieut Jammet & Ens. Holmes is killed, the rest of the Gentlemen are Prisoners. Endorsed. To Col. Henry Bouquet of the Royal American Regiment Commanding His Majesty's Forces at Fort Pitt. Letter from Ensign Christie to Col. Bonquet concerg. the surrender of Presqu' Isle to the Savages, Dated the 10h of July 63. [A 19-1, p 280] SIR WILLIAM JOHNSON TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. Extract of a Letter from Sir Wm Johnson to Sir Jeffery Amherst dated JOHNSON HALL July 11th 1763. "Since my Last a Number of the Oneidas arrived here, and acquainted me with the manner in which Venango had been surprized; which was effected by the Indians entering the Fort as Friends after which they put the Garrison to the Sword. This morning Thomas a Conajohare Chief, who was one of the messengers I sent with the messages, & to invite the Six Nations to meet me at the German Flatts, arrived Express, and after Informing me that all the chiefs of each Nation (except the Senecas who refused to attend) were on their way to the Place appointed; He told me that two Onondagas, who were sent about 20 days ago, by their Sachims, towards the Ohio, to Enquire into the cause of the present Troubles, had returned, & confirmed the account of the taking of Venango, which was Done by a Party of Chriussois, Residing in the neighborhood thereof; and that after putting the Garrison to the Sword, they made the officer write which Induced them to act as they had Done; which were, first, the scarcity & Dearness of Powder for these tw6 years past being obliged to pay 2 Dearskins for a Gill of Powder, & so in proportion for other Articles; and that when they complained, they were Ill-treated & never Redressed: Secondly, that the many Posts which the English kept possession of Induced them to believe they Intended to possess all their country; for all which they were Determined to Destroy them.-After writing this they put the officer to Death & sent the Paper with a Party of Warriors then going towards Fort Pitt, in order to do Mischief on the communication, where they proposed to Drop it, where it might be found by the English. The Mohawk Express further Informed me, that the Onondagas had, in the presence of all the nations assembled, Declared their Resolution of Living and Dying with the English, let the consequence be what it would, and had absolutely Rejected every Proposal made to them by



Page 212


212

BOUQUET PAPERS.

the Senecas &ca-that they had Received the Account, that the Twightwees, Ottawas, Hurons, Delawares &ca had Destroyed six Forts, of which he mentioned the Following, vizt. Detroit, Michilimackinac, Miamis, Sandusky & Venango: He added, that at the meeting at which he was present, at Onondaga, the Senecas spoke with three Belts of Wampum to the Rest of the Confederacy, acquainting them that they had given a Loose to their warriors against the English and Desired they would do the same; but that their Request was Totally Rejected by the Onondagas and all the Rest, on Receiving my message first; and that that nation in particular, had sent a very Large Belt to the Senecas Desiring them Immediately to Desist, altho' it is my opinion it will have but Little Effect on them." Endorsed: Extract of a Letter from Sir William Johnson to Sir Jeffery Amherst Dated Johnson Hall 11th July 1763 [A 4, p 313] LIEUT. JAMES MACDONALD TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 12th July 1763. SIR You have certainly heard long before now of our misfortunes at the Detroit & its Dependancies but as it may be satisfactory to you to be more particularly informed do myself the pleasure to give you an exact account of all that has happened in this Department, & hope you'll do me the Justice to believe that I would have wrote you and communicated the same long ago had an opportunity offered. On Friday the 6th of May we were privately informed of a conspiracy against us by the Indians, particularly the Ottawa Nation who were to come to council with us the next day, and massacre every soul of us on the morning of that day being Saturday the 7th of May, Fifteen of their warriors came into the Fort and seemed very inquisitive and anxious to know where all the English Merchants Shops were. At 9 o'clock the Garrison were ordered under arms, and the Savages continued coming into the Fort untill 11 o'clock diminishing their numbers as much as possible, by dividing themselves at all the courses of the streets, most adjacent to the shops. Before 12 o'clock they were three hundred men, at least three times in number equal to the Garrison. But seeing all the Troops under arms & finding the Merchants' Shops shut, I imagined prevented them from attempting to put their evil scheme in execution that day. Observing us thus prepared, their Chiefs came in a very condemned like manner to Council, where they



Page 213


LIEUT. JAMES MACDONALD TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

213

spoke a great deal of nonsense to Major Gladwin and Captain Campbell, Protesting at the same time the greatest Friendship imaginable to them. But expressing their surprise at seeing all the officers & men under arms. The Major then told them that he had certain Intelligence that some Indians were projecting mischief, and on that account he was determined to have the Troops always under arms upon such occasions. That they being the oldest Nation and the first that had come to Council needed not to be astonished at that precaution, as he was resolved to do the same to all Nations. At 2 o'clock they had done speaking, went off seemingly very discontented, and crossed the river half a League from the Fort where they all encamped, about six o'clock that afternoon six of their Warriors returned and brought an old Squaw prisoner, alledging that she had given us false Information against them. The Major declared she had never given us any kind of advice, they then insisted upon naming the author of what he had heard with regard to the Indians which he declined to do, but told them it was one of themselves, whose name he promised never to reveal. Whereupon they went off & carried the old woman Prisoner with them when they arrived at their camp (Pondiac) their greatest chief seized on the Prisoner and gave her three strokes on the head with a stick which laid her flat on the ground, and the whole nation assembled round her and called repeated times, kill her, kill her. Sunday the 8th Pondiac and several others of their principal Chiefs, came into the Fort at 5 o'clock in the afternoon and brought a pipe of peace with them, with which they wanted to convince us fully of their Friendship and sincerity. But the Major Judging that they only wanted to caggole us, would not go neigh them, nor give them any countenance; which obliged Capt. Campbell to go and speak to them, after smoaking with the Pipe of Peace and assuring him of their Fidelity, they said that the next morning all the nation would come to Council, where everything would be settled to our satisfaction, after which they would immediately disperse, and that would remove all kind of suspicion, accordingly on Monday morning the 9th six of their warriors came into the Fort at six o'clock and upon seeing the Garrison under arms, went off, without being observed, about ten o'clock we counted fifty six Canoes with about seven or eight men in each crossing the River from their camp & when they arrived neigh the Fort, the Gates were shut and the Interpreter sent to tell them, that not above Fifty or Sixty Chiefs would be admitted into the Fort, upon which Pondiac immediately desired the Interpreter in a peremptory manner to return directly & acquaint us, That if all their People had not free access into



Page 214


214

BOUQUET PAPERS.

the Fort, none of them would enter it. That we might stay in our Fort But he would keep the country, adding that he would order a Party Instantly to an Island where we had Twenty four Bullocks, which they immediately killed. Unluckily three soldiers were on the Island and a poor man with his wife and four children which they all murthered, except two children, as also a poor woman and her two sons that lived about half a mile from the Fort, after having thus put all the English without the Fort to Death, they ordered a Frenchman, who had seen the woman and her two sons killed and scalped, to come and inform us of it, & likewise of their having murthered Sir Robert Davers, Capt Robertson and a Boats crew of six Persons, two days before, being Saturday, the 7th of May, near the entrance of Lake Huron, for which place they set off from hence on Monday the 2nd. In order to know if these Lakes and Rivers vere navigable for a Schooner which lay here to proceed to Michilimackinac, we were then fully persuaded that the Information given us was well founded, and a proper disposition was made for the defence of the Fort, altho' our number were but small, not exceeding one Hundred and twenty Including all the English Traders, and the Works very neigh a mile in circumference. On Tuesday the 10th early in the morning, the Savages began to fire on the Fort and Vessels which lay opposite to it, about 8 o'clock the Indians called a Party, and ceased Firing, and half an hour after the Chiefs of the Wiandotes came into the Fort on their way to a Council, where they were called by the Ottawas, and promised us, to endeavour to solicite, and persuade the Ottawas from committing further Hostilties; after Drinking a Glass of Rum they went off. At 3 o'clock several of the Inhabitants and four Chiefs of the Ottawas, Wiandotes, Chippewas, and Pottawatamies came and acquainted us that most of all the Inhabitants were assembled at a French man's house about a mile from the Fort, where the Savages purposed to hold a Council, and desiring Capt Campbell and another officer to go with them to that Council, where they hoped with their presence and assistance further Hostilities would cease, assuring us, at the same time that be it as it would, that Capt. Campbell and the other officer that went with him should return whenever they pleased this promise was ascertained by the French as well as the Indian Chiefs; whereupon Captain Campbell and Lieut McDougall went off escorted by a number of the Inhabitants, and the four Chiefs (the first promised to be answerable for their returning that night). When they arrived at the house above mentioned they found the French and Indians assembled,



Page 215


LIEUT. JAMES MACDONALD TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

215

and after councilling a long Time, the Wiandotts were prevailed upon to sing the war song, and this being done, it was next resolved that Captain Campbell and Lieut McDougall should be detained Prisoners, but would be Indulged to Lodge in a French Man's house, till a French Commandant arrived from the Illinois. That next day five Indians and as many Canadians would be dispatched to acquaint the commanding officer at the Illinois that Detroit was in their Possession, and required of him to send an officer to command, to whom Capt Campbell and Lieut McDougall should be delivered; as for Major Gladwin he was summoned to give up the Fort & two Vessels &ca. The Troops to ground their arms, that they would allow as many Battoes, and as much Provisions as they Judged requisite for us to go to Niagara, that if these Proposals were not accepted of-They were a thousand men and would storm the Fort at all events, and in that case every soul of us should be put to the Torture. The Major returned for answer that as soon as the two officers were permitted to come into the Fort he would after consulting them give a positive answer to their demands, but could do nothing without obtaining their opinion. On Wednesday the 11th, several Inhabitants came early in the morning into the Fort, and advised us by way of Friendship, to make our escape aboard the vessels as assuring us we had no other method by which we could preserve our Lives, as the Indians were then fifteen hundred Fighting men and would be as many more in a few days and that they were fully determined to attack us in an hour's time we told the mons" we were ready to receive them and that every officer & man in the Fort would willingly perish in the defence of it, rather than condescend or agree to any Terms that Savages would propose, upon which the French went off, as I suppose to communicate what he had said to their Allies, and in a little afterwards the Indians gave their usual hoop, and about five or six hundred began to attack the Fort on all Quarters, Indeed some of them behaved extremely well, advanced very boldly in an open plain, exposed to all our fire, and came within sixty yards of the Fort, but upon having three men killed, and above a dozen wounded, they retired as briskly as they advanced and Fired at Three hundred yards distance till 7 q'clock at night, when they sent a Frenchman into the Fort with a Letter for the Major desiring a Cessation of arms that night, and Proposing to let the Troops with their arms, go on board the Vessels, but insisting upon our giving up the Fort, leaving the French Artillery, all the merchandize and officers effects, and had even the Insolence to Demand a negro boy belonging



Page 216


216

BOUQUET PAPERS.

to a merchant to be delivered Pondiac. The Major's Reply to their Extraordinary Propositions was much the same as the first. Thursday the 12th Five Frenchmen and as many Indians were sent off for the Illinois with Letters wrote by a Canadian, agreeable to Pondiac's desire-on the 13th we were Informed by the Inhabitants that Mr. Chapman, a Trader from Niagara, was taken Prisoner by the Wiandots, with five Battoes Loaded with Goods-The 21st one of the Vessels was ordered to sail for Niagara, But to remain till the 6th of June at the mouth of the River, in order to advert some Battoes which we expected daily from Niagara-Upon the 22nd we were told that Ensign Paullies who commanded at Sandusky was brought Prisoner by Ten Ottawas who reported, that they had prevailed after a long consultation with the Wiandotts, who lived at Sandusky, to declare War against us. that some days ago they came early of a morning to the Block house there, and murthered every soul therein, consisting of Twenty seven Persons, Traders included, that Messrs Callender & Prenties formerly Captains in the Pensylvania Regiment were amongst that number, and that they had taken one Hundred Horses loaded with Indian Goods, which with the plunder of the Garrison was agreed on to be given to the Wiandotts, before they condescended to join them. That all they wanted was the commanding officer-On the 29th of May we had the mortification to see eight of our Battoes in Possession of the Enemy Passing on the opposite shore, with several soldiers a Board-called at those in the Battoe that if they passed the Savages would kill them all, upon which they immediately seized upon two Indians & threw them over board, unluckily one of the Indians brought an Indian over Board with him and Tommahawked him directly, they being near to the Shore and it quite shoal, another soldier laid hold of an oar and struck that Indian upon the head, of which wound he is since dead. Then there remained only three soldiers of which two were wounded, and although Fifty Indians were on the Bank not sixty yards fireing upon them, the three Soldiers escaped on board the Vessel, with the Battoe loaded with eight Barrels of Provision and gives the following account of their misfortunes vizt. That two nights before at 10 o'clock they arrived about six Leagues from the mouth of the River, where they encamped-that two men went a little from the camp for Firewood to Boil their Kettle, when one of the two was seized by an Indian, killed and scalped in an Instant. The other Soldier ran directly & alarmed the camp, upon which Lieut Cuyler immediately ordered to give ammunition to the Detachment, which consisted of one Serjt. and seventeen Soldiers of



Page 217


LIEUT. JAMES MACDONALD TO COL. HENLRY BOUQUET.

217

the Royal Americans, Three Serjeants and Twenty five rank & file of the Queen's Independant company of Rangers, After having delivered them ammunition, and a disposition made of the men, the Enemy came close to them without being observed behind a Bank and fired very smartly upon our Flank, which could not sustain the Enemy's Fire, and they retiring Precipitately threw the whole in confusion by that means the Soldiers embarked aboard the Battoe, with one, two and three Oars in each Battoe, which gave an opportunity to the Savages of taking them all, except Lieut Cuyler and thirty men that made their escape in two Battoes to Niagara. Sunday the 5th of June we were acquainted that Fort Miamis was taken, that Ensign Holms who commanded them, had been informed (by two Frenchmen who arrived there the preceeding day) of Detroit being attacked by the Indians, which he would hardly believe, but threatened to imprison the French for that Report. That an Indian woman had betrayed him out of the Fort by Pretending that another woman was very sick, and begged him to come to her Cabbin to let Blood of her, and when he had gone a little distance from the Fort was fired on and killed. the Serjeant hearing the report of the Fireing ran to see what it was, and was immediately taken Prisoner, the soldiers shut the Gates, and would have probably defended the Fort, if one Welch, a Trader, who had been taken Prisoner, a few days before, had not advised them to open the Gates, adding that if they did not comply, the Indians would set fire to the Fort, and put them to Death, whereas if they opened the Gates they would be well treated whereupon the gates were opened and the soldiers grounded their arms. The 10th of June we heard that Ensign Schlosser the commanding officer at St. Joseph's was taken Prisoner, and that all his Garrison (except three men) were massacred. That the Indians came on the 25th of May with a Pretence to Council, and as soon as the Chiefs had shaked hands with Mr. Schlosser, they seized on him, gave a screech and instantly killed ten men. The 12th we were told that Lieut Jenkins and all the Garrison of Ouiattanon consisting of a Serjeant and eighteen men were taken Prisoners and carried to the Illinois. The 18th a Jesuit arrived from Michilimackinac and brought us Letters from Captain Etherington, and Lieut Lesley with an account of their being taken Prisoner, that Lieut Jamenet was killed and twenty one Soldiers; that on the 2nd the Indians were playing &c all as usual near the Fort, where Capt. Etherington and Lieut Lesley happened to be looking at them, but were suddenly seized and carried into 'the 28



Page 218


218

BOUQUET PAPERS.

woods, at the same time the Savages had purposely thrown their Ball into the Fort, As if that had happened by accident and followed it directly into the Fort where a number of their Women had Tommahawks and Spears concealed under their Blankets, which they delivered them, and put the whole Garrison to death, except thirteen men. The 30th we were informed that the Blockhouse at Presqu' Isle was Burnt, that Ensign Christie and all his Garrison, which consisted of Twenty-nine men were all taken Prisoners, except six men who it was believed had made their escape to Le Boeuf. On the night of the 2nd Instant Captain Campbell & Lieut Mc Dougall were lodged at the house above mentioned, about a mile from the Fort, and made a Resolution to Escape, when it was agreed on between them that Mr. McDougall should sett off first, which he did and got safe into the Fort. But you know it was much more dangerous for Captain Campbell than for any other Person, by reason that he could neither run nor see, and being sensible of that failing, I am sure prevented him from attempting to escape. The 4h a Detachment was ordered to Destroy some Breast works and Entrenchment the Indians had made a Quarter of a mile from the Fort, and about Twenty Indians came to attack that Party which they Engaged. But were drove off in an Instant, with the Loss of one man killed (and two wounded) which our people scalped and cut to pieces, half an hour afterwards the Savages carried the man they had lost before Captain Campbell, stripped him naked, and directly murthered him in a cruel manner, which indeed gives me pain beyond expression & I am sure cannot miss but to affect sensibly all his Acquaintances, altho' he is now out of the question, I must own, I never had, nor never shall have, a Friend or Acquaintance that I valued more than him. My present comfort is, that if Charity, innocence & Integrity is a sufficient Dispensation of all Mankind, that entitles him to happiness in the world to come. Notwithstanding our being attacked almost every day, and often in the night for two months past, the loss we have sustained is very inconsiderable, being only one man killed and a dozen wounded. Whereas the Enemy have had about Twenty men killed and thirty wounded. I believe they begin to be quite despondent and are affraid their attempts will prove abortive and to no purpose. I make no doubt but your patience will be entirely exhausted reading so long an epistle, and the more so as the contents thereof, is wholly



Page 219


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

219

melancholly and disagreeable. And therefore will add no more but that I am with the greatest respect. Sir Your most obedt. & faithfull Servant JAMES MACDONALD I had almost forgot to acquaint you that the vessel arrived here the 30th of June from Niagara, and brought us a Reinforcement of an officer and Fifty men, one hundred & Fifty Barrels of Provision with plenty of Ammunition,.which put our Garrison in good spirits. I believe the Savages begin to see their attempts will prove abortive and to no purpose and repent their engaging in a war that I hope will end in Total Destruction. God grant that may be soon. On the 4h Instant Ensign Paullie made his escape from the Savages immediately upon hearing of Capt. Campbell's being murthered, had he stay'd half an hour longer the Indians would have put him to Death also. Ensigns Christy and Schlosser have been brought into the Fort by the Pottawattomies and Wiandotts, the first was delivered the 9th Instant, and last the 14th of June. I shall embrace the first opportunity of sending you a Return of our Detachment, and would have sent it now only time will not permit as the Vessel is just setting sail for Niagara. I am respectfully Sir Your most Humble Servt J. M. D. Endorsed Letter dated an Detroit C 12h Juillet 1763-da Lieut Mc. Donald. [A 19-1, p 295] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. CAMP AT EDGE HILL 26 MILES FROM FORT PITT SIR 5th August 1763. The Second Instant the Troops and Convoy arrived at Ligonier where I could obtain no Intelligence of the Enemy, the Expresses sent since the beginning of July having been either kill'd or obliged to return, all the Passes being occupied by the Enemy. In this uncertainty I determined to leave all the waggons with the Powder and a quantity of stores and Provisions at Ligonier. And on the 4th proceeded with Troops and about 340 Horses loaded with Flour. I intended to have halted to Day at Bushy Run (a mile beyond this camp) and after having refreshed the men and Horses to have marched in the night over Turtle Creek, a very dangerous Defile of several miles commanded by high and craggy Hills. But at one o'clock



Page 220


220

BOUQUET PAPERS.

this afternoon, after a march of 17 miles, the Savages suddenly attacked our advanc'd guard which was immediately supported by the two Light Infantry Companies of the 42nd Regiment, who drove the Enemy from their Ambuscade and persued them a good way. The savages return'd to the attack and the Fire being obstinate on our Front and extending along our Flanks, we made a general Charge with the whole line to dislodge the Savages from the Heights, in which attempt we succeeded without obtaining by it any decisive advantage, for as soon as they were driven from one Post they appeared on another till by continual Reinforcements they were at last able to surround us and attack the convoy left in our Rear; This obliged us to march back to Protect it, The Action then became general & though we were attacked on every side and the Savages exerted themselves with uncommon Resolution they were constantly Repulsed with Loss. We also suffered considerably Capt Lieut Graham & Lieut James McIntosh of the 42nd are killed and Capt Graham wounded of the R. A. R. Lieut Dow who acted as A. D. Q. M. G. is shot through the body. of the 77th Lieut Donald Campbell and Mr. Peebles, a volunteer, are wounded.0 Our Loss in men including Rangers & Drivers exceeds sixty killed or wounded. The action has lasted from one o'clock till night and we expect to begin again at Daybreak. Whatever our fate may be I thought it necessary to give your Excellency this early Information that you may at all Events take such measures as you will think proper with the Provinces for their own safety aVd effectual relief of Fort Pitt as in the case of another Engagement I fear Insurmountable difficulties in Protecting & Transporting our Provisions being already so much weaken'd by the losses of this day in men & hlorses besides the additional necessity of carrying the wounded, whose situation is truely Deplorable. I cannot sufficiently acknowledge the constant Assistance I have received from Major Campbell during this long action nor express my admiration of the cool and steady behaviour of the Troops who did not fire a shot without orders and drove the Enemy from their Posts with Fixed Bayonets. I have the Honor to be with great Respect Your most obedient & His Excellency most Humble Servant General Amherst Endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Sir Jeffery Amherst. dated at the camp of Edge Hill the 5th August 1763. [A 4, p 3:37]



Page 221


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

221

COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. CAMP AT BUSHY RUN SIR 6th August 1763 I had the honour to inform your Excellency in my Letter of yesterday of our first engagement with the Savages. We took Post last night on the Hill where our Convoy halted when the Fort was attacked (A Comodious Piece of ground and Just spacious enough for our purpose) there we encircled the whole and covered our wounded with the Flour Bags. In the morning the Savages surrounded our Camp at the Distance of about 500 yards, and by shouting and yelping quite round that extensive Circumference thought to have Terrified us with their numbers. They attacked us early and under favour of an incessant )Fire made several bold Efforts to penetrate our Camp and thoe' they failed in the attempt our situation was not the less perplexing having experienc'd that brisk Attacks had little Effect upon an Enemy who always gave way when pressed & appeared again Immediately: our Troops were besides extremely fatigued with the long march and as long Action of the Preceding Day, and Distressed to the last Degree by a Total want of Water much more Intolerable than the Enemy's Fire. Tied to our Convoy we could not lose sight of it without exposing it and our Wounded to fall a prey to the Savages, who pressed upon us on every side, and to move it was Impracticable having lost many horses, and most of the Drivers stupefied by Fear, hid themselves in the Bushes 6r were incapable of hearing or obeying any orders. The Savages growing every m6ment more Audacious it was thought proper still to increase their Confidence; by that means if Possible to Intice them to come close upon us or to stand their Ground when attacked. With this View two Companys of Light Infantry were ordered within the Circle, and the Troops on their right and left opened their Files & filled up the space; that it might seem they were intended to cover their retreat. The third Light Infantry Company, and the Grenadiers of the 42d were ordered to support the two first Companies. This Manoeuvre succeeded to our wish, for the few Troops who took possession of the ground lately Occupied by the two Light Infantry Companies being brought in nearer to the centre of the circle, the Barbarians mistaking these motions for a retreat hurried, headlong on, and advancing on us with the most Daring Intrepedity galled us exceedingly with their heavy Fire; but at the very moment that certain of success they thought themselves masters of the camp, Major Campbell at the head of the two first Companies sallied out from a



Page 222


222

BOUQUET PAPERS.

part of the Hill they could not observe, and fell upon their Right Flank, they resolutely returned the fire, but could not stand the Irresistable Shock of our men, who rushing in among them killed many of them, and put the rest to flight, the orders sent to the other two companies were delivered so timely by Captain Bassett and executed with such celerity and spirit that the routed Savages who hapned to run that moment before their Front received their full fire when uncovered by the trees. The four companies did not give them time to load a second time, but pursued them till they were totally dispersed. The left of the Savages which had not been attacked were kept in awe by the remains of our Troops posted on the Brow of the Hill for that purpose, nor durst they attempt to support or assist their Right but being Wittness to their Defeat followed their Example and Fled. Our brave men disdained so much to touch the dead body of a Vanquished Enemy that scarce a Scalp was taken except by the' Rangers & Pack Horse Drivers. The Woods being now cleared, and the pursuit over, the four Companies took Possession of a Hill in our Front and as soon as Litters could be made for the wounded, the Flour and every thing Destroyed which for want of Horses could not be carried, we marched without molestation to this Camp. After the severe Correction we had given the Savages a few hours before, it was natural to suppose we should enjoy some rest but we had hardly fixed our camp when they Fired upon us again. This was very provoking! however the Light Infantry dispersed them before they could receive orders for that Purpose. I hope we shall be no more disturbed for if we have another action, we shall hardly be able to carry our WoundedThe Behaviour of the Troops upon this occasion speaks for itself so strongly that for me to attempt their Eulogium would but Detract from their Merit. I have the Honor to be most respectfully Sir Your most obedient & most humble Servant P. S. I have the honor to inclose the Return of killed, wounded and Missing in the two Engagements H.B. His Excellency, Genl. Amherst Endorsed: Copy of a Lotter to Sir Jeffery Amherst dated at the Camp at Bushy Run the 6th Augt 1763 [A 4, p 340]



Page 223


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

223

GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 7th August 1763. SIR Last night I received your Letter of the 26th July and I approve of every thing you mention to have Done for the security of the communication, and for advancing with the Troops under your Command, agreeable to my former Orders. The Behavior of the Province of Pennsylvania, upon this occasion, is altogether so very unaccountable, that were the Persons who are so much to Blame in this Affair, the only ones who would be the Sufferers, I must confess it would be but Just that they felt the Effects of their Supineness & Timidity, which seem to Spring from an Obstinacy peculiar to themselves. I have a letter from Major Campbell concerning the reduced officers of the 42nd and I herewith enclose my answer open for your perusal: By my other Letter which accompanys this, you will be fully Informed of my Intentions concerning the Reduction of that, as well as the other corps now with you. The Warrant you have received for holding Courts Martial, makes no alteration in your Reporting to me as usual: The Like Warrants have been sent to all the Commanding officers of corps. I Have Letters from Major Gladwin of the 8th July: He had baffled all the attempts of the Savages, Even before the Schooner Returned with a Reinforcement; But all the upper Posts had been surprized & too many of our People suffered: Major Gladwin sent out a Party, who pursued the Enemy for some Distance & killed Three (one chief) But I fear from what he writes me, poor Captain Campbell has been butchered by the Villains. Christie with part of his Garrison, was carried to the Detroit, where Pauli & Schlosser likewise were, the Former having made his Escape and the Latter was Delivered up. Capt. Dalyell, with 260 men, had got as far as Presqu' Isle the 15th July: and the Schooner left Niagara the second Trip, with a Reinforcement of 60 men, besides Seamen, with Captain Loring. I have ordered the 46th Regiment (which arrived here with the other corps from the Havana) to Niagara, and likewise the 80th from Fort William Augustus: The Detachment of Royal Americans, now at Niagara will advance to Presqu' Isle on the arrival of the 46th and I shall Direct that the whole of the Royal Americans in the Upper Posts, are likewise Brought to Presqu' Isle that they may Joyn the Battalion at Pittsburgh, where I intend they shall be Formed, according to the new Establishment, as you will see by my other Letter.



Page 224


224

BOUQUET PAPERS.

I Flatter myself we shall soon be in a condition to Punish the Barbarians most effectually; I need not Repeat to you my Desires, that the Guilty In which I Include Every Nation that has been concerned in this Treacherous attempt, who may Fall in your Hands, may meet with their Deserts without Delay. I have a Letter from Mr. Croghan, wherein he gives it as his opinion that as soon as you arrive at Fort Pitt, the Delawares & other Indians on this side of the Lakes will Remove with their Familys over the Lakes. My answer is, that I wish there was not an Indian Settlement within a Thousand Miles of our Country; for they are only fit to live with the Inhabitants of the Woods being more nearly allied with the Bruide than the Human Creation. I am Sir Your most obedient Servant Colonel Bouquet JEFF: AMHERST Endorsed: Letter from Sir Jeffery Amherst 7th August 1763 Received the 10th Sept. do. [A 4, p 344] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT 11 August 1763 SIR We arrived here yesterday without further opposition than scattered shots along the road. The Delawares, Shawanese, Wiandots, and Mingoes had closely beset and attacked this Fort from the 27th July to the first instant when they quitted it to march against us. The Boldness of those Savages is hardly credible they had taken Post under the Banks of both rivers close to the Fort where digging holes they kept an incessant fire, and threw fire arrows, they are good marksmen, and tho' our people were under cover, they killed one & wounded seven, Captain Ecuyer is wounded in the Leg with an arrow. I would not do Justice to that officer should I omit to inform your Excellency that without Engineer or any other Artificers than a few Shipwrights he has raised a Parapet of Logs round the Fort above the old one which not having been finished was too low and Enfiladed. He has trased the whole, Palisaded the Inside of the Aria, constructed a Fire Engine & in short has taken all the Precautions which art and Judgement could suggest for the preservation of this Post, open before on the three sides, which had suffered by the Floods.



Page 225


COL.,HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

225

The Inhabitants have acted with Spirit against the Enemy and in the Repairs of the Fort. Captain Ecuyer expressed an entire satisfaction of their conduct. The Artillery and the small number of Regulars have done their duty with distinction. As nothing more can be done to this post for the present, I send Captain Bassett with my Letters to you an exact Report of its actual condition, and answer any question you may be pleased to ask him concerning our march and Engagements in which he has been of very great service to me. He has been so long in a bad state of health and his Disorder increasing upon him, I cannot help recommending him to your Excellency's indulgence, the Doctors under whose care he was for a considerable time that nothing but a long course of the Salt waters was likely to do him any good. I have npt received as yet any intelligence from Presqu' Isle and the Detroit, and all the Savages beyond this River having now openly declared against us, it is become impossible for me to procure any intelligence from these Posts, and after the heavy loss we have sustained the Troops we have left will barely be sufficient for the service of this Department & escorts of Provisions. Major Campbell with 400 men goes back to Ligonier to bring up the remains of our convoy, all useless people go down at the same time. The Lieutenant and some of the few Rangers I had raised for our march have been kil'd. I write to Capt Ourry to pay the rest off at Bedford and transmit the Accompt of the Expence to your Excellency which I flatter myself you will be pleased to allow. Unless trusty Indians could be employed, it is very doubtful whether I shall receive your Letters, as it is probable the enemy will keep spies upon the road to obtain intelligence of our intentions, and give themselves time to provide for the safety of their Familys when their own Towns will be threatened. Had the Provinces assisted us this would have been the favourable moment to have crushed the Barbarians a service we cannot effect with our Forces alone, the carriage of the wounded after every action being a cruel incumbrance upon a few Troops acting in the Woods at a distance from Posts. You will please to observe by the state of our Provisions here that we shall want another supply. I dont expect above twenty thousand weight of flour more from Ligonier, and no meat, I trust the provinces will furnish the Escorts. At the request of Maj. Campbell I have the Honour to recommend to your Excellency Mr. Patrick Balreaves the eldest Lieut with the 42d Regt. to succeed to the Captain Lieutency vacant by the death of. 29



Page 226


226

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Capt. Lieutenant Graham kil'd the 5th. And if you are pleased to grant that favour to that deserving officer there will be two vacancys more for which the Major desires I would recommend Lieut Charles Menzies and Lieut John McIntosh as the two eldest Lieutenants here of the second Battalion who chose to remain in full pay. I cannot omit to mention the only Volunteer with us Mr. Palles dangerously wounded. I have the honour to be with the greatest respect. Sir Your most obdt. & most Hble Servt To His Exy. Sir Jeffery Amherst. H. B. Endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Sir Jeffery Amherst the 11th August 1763 at Fort Pitt. fA 4, p 359] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT SIR 26th August 1763. The 22nd Instant Major Campbell & the Detachment under his command returned here with the part of the Convoy we had left at Ligonier without seeing any Savages. By the fatigue of long marches & the necessity the troops have been under to lay without tents and upon their arms so many men are fallen sick that the number for duty in the 42nd & 77th is reduced to 245 which to my great mortification puts it out of my Power without a Reinforcement to send them to Presqu' Isle agreeable to your Excellency's orders. To save Provisions & disencumber the Fort of useless hands I send to Bedford with the Waggons and Pack Horses all the Sick & Wounded able to go; After furnishing that escort; The Remains of the two Regiments would not have been in a condition to force their way to Presqu' Isle, had they met with opposition, Another Circumstance equally distressing for me is a spirit of discontent & desertion which discovers itself among the Royal Ameiricans at this Post, I had the honor at different times to inform you that a number of them claimed their discharges, having served the time they had enlisted for. The necessity of the Service has not permitted hitherto to grant them their request, and occasions those bad dispositions. The Militia think it equally hard to be detained & they take-every opportunity to desert. Not to be obliged to rely altogether on men of



Page 227


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

227

that temper I keep 50 men of the Highlanders in the Fort and send as many Americans with the Major chosen among those who are less suspected. I have disposed for the present of the Troops as follows. At Fort Pitt ' 200 At Ligonier for Escorts 100 With the Waggons to Londoun 100 At Bedford with the Major..'.... Major Campbell will send back from Bedford 200 Horses with Flour and if he can some Cattle to Ligonier, which is in an immediate want of Provisions. The 100 men who escort the waggons from Bedford may escort back the Provisions you will please to order for the use of this Garrison & Communication. I have heard nothing from Major Gladwin or Captain Dalyell. It is impracticable to send any but Indians to Presqu' Isle & the only one I had employed from Bedford is supposed to be killed, having not appeared since he lefft this Fort on his way back to me. I have the honor to be &c. His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst. [A 4, p 369] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT SIR 27th August 1763 After I had wrote my Letter of yesterday, a french Indian arrived with a Packett from the Detroit of the 29th July, and the inclosed fro Major Gladwin for your Excellency. I have the honor to send you a copy of his lettor to me, and other papers, which I suppose have already been sent you by the way of Niagara, in which case I would beg the favor to have them returned to me. This Express says that after he left the Detroit he was informed by some Wyandots, that Major Rogers with 300 men had been attacked at the mouth of the River by the Potewatamis, had beat them & got into the Fort, and that he himself saw the sloop sailing up the River. Thai at Sandusky he found that the Detachment had burnt the Indian Village, near the Place where the Fort had stood. That when he was coming here with the first Letters The Delawares would not let him



Page 228


228

2BOUQUET PAPERS.

pass; But were so dejected at present by their Loss in the Engagement that they had not attempted to stop him tho' they wanted to have the Letters. That one Hundred Warriors of the Shawanese were on their way to their Towns from the Detroit where they had spirited the revolted Indians to continue the war, & that the Delawares were preparing to join the Shawanese. I send this Indian to Presqu' Isle with Letters from the Commanding officer there, & for Major Gladwin to give them Intelligence of the Situation of affairs in this quarter. He is to return here without Delay. In the meantime I hope to hear whether we have any Reinforcement to expect from the Provinces, and I can make no alteration in the disposition of the Troops, our Numbers being insufficient to undertake that March without running the Risk of losing the few Men we hare left fit for action. 300 good Men Provincials or Regulars would now enable us to burn aud destroy all the Delaware Towns and clear the country of that Vermine between this Fort & Lake Erie and if Provisions and Batteaus could be had for those Troops at Sandusky they might go to the Detroit that way or by Presqu' Isle. I have the honor to be &c (no signature) En1orsed: Copy of Letters to Sir Jeffery Amherst dated at Fort Pitt the 26th & 27th August 1763. [A 4, p 371] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO LT. GOV. FANQUIER. NEW YORK 29th August SIR 1j63 I enclose you a copy of a Letter which I Writ ta Colonel Stephen, on hearing of his arrival at Fort Cumberland; and since then Captain Bassett, who brought me the agreeable Accounts of Colonel Bouquets' having totally Routed the Body of Indians who had attacked his Little Army near Biushy Run (the Particulars of which you will certainly hear, before this can Reach you) Acquaints me that Col. Stephen was at Fort Bedford, when he came past that Place. As a severe Punishment of the Savages at this time will be the most effectual security to the Back Inhabitants for the future; I should be glad the Virginian Volunteers were employed in Destroying the Shawanese Settlements, which I imagine might be easily effected and altho' I have work enough already for the small number of Regulars at Fort Pitt, yet I would Try to spare some from thence to Joyn the



Page 229


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. STEPHEN

229

Virginians in offensive operations against the Shawanese Towns, on the Banks of the Ohio. I shall write to Colonel Bouquet on this subject, and if Colonel Stephen can get men for that service, I should hope it might be executed with success. I have no Late accounts from the Detroit, but am in hourly expectation of hearing from thence; and I flatter myself that the accounts, when they do come will be as favourable as I could wish for. I am with great Regard &ca The Honble JEFF. AMHERST Lt. Governor Fanquier Williamsburgh Endorsed: Copy Letter from Sir Jeffery Amherst;to Lt. Govr Fanquier. Dated New York 31st August 1763. [A 4, p 373] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. STEPHEN. NEW YORK SIR, - 31st August 1763. Since my Last, I have had the satisfaction of Receiving the Accounts of Colonel Bouquet's arrival at Fort Pitt, after having totally Routed the Body of Indiansowho had attacked his little Army near Bushy Run and Capt. Basset, who brought me those accounts, having acquainted me that you were arrived at Fort Bedford; I enclose this to Captain Ourry, that he may Deliver it to you; In hopes that you will be able to prevail on a Respectable Body of Volunteers from the men under your Command to undertake an expedition against th4 Shawanese Settlements, on the Banks of the Ohio, this being the favorable time for executing such a Blow, that would tend so greatly to the security of the Frontiers for the future & Reflect the Highest Honor on the Dominion of Virginia. I have wrote to the Lt. Governor on this Subject; and I now acquaint Colonel Bouquet, that he may concert with you & should it appear practicable that he will give every assistance he can, with the necessary Directions, for putting it in Execution, furnishing you with what men &c. he can spare from Fort Pitt: The Batteaus that have been lately built there will answer a very good purpose, if they are employed on the occasion, And I Really think the Service is desirable & Judge the Scheme so feasible that I flatter myself you will be able to prevail on



Page 230


230

BOUQUET PAPERS.

a sufficient number of men to undertake it, and that it will not fail of success.

I am Sir &ca JEFF AMHERST

Colonel Stephen Commanding the Virginia Volunteers Fort Bedford Endorsed:- Copy-Letter from Sir Jeffery Amherst to Colonel Stephen. Dated New York 81st Aug. 1763 [A 4, p 375]

RETURN.

Return of the Detroit &ca &ca.

Detachments of the 1st Batt" 60th Regt. at Niagara

At the Detroit: Lieutenants 3 Ensigns 3 6 Serjeants 3 Drums 4 Rank & File 86 Do Sick & Wounded 10 On board the Vessels 8 111 117 [A 4, p 392]

COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT 7th Sept 1763

SIR

I had the honor to inform your Excellency in my letter of the 27th August, that I had sent to Presqu' Isle the Indian Express, who had brought Maja Gladwin's Packett. He returned after proceeding about half way wt' the Intelligence enclosed. I detain him here till I "receive a Letter from you, and send him I



Page 231


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

231

daily out to be informed of the motions of the Savages. Yesterday he told me that several Parties were about the Fort, watching an opportunity to strike & cut off our grass guard, but as he speaks very little of their language, he could not know their numbers. He has met this morning over the River two Wiandotts (sent from Sandusky to inquire what was become of him) who have told him that 800 Western Indians in 80 Canoes were gone towards Niagara to take Post at the carrying Place and cut off all communication wth ye Detroit where one of our vessels had arrived about 12 days ago and that the Ottawas & Chipwas who were at Presqu' Isle were not yet come back. If this war continues it will not be possible to keep Cattle at the Posts without exposing the men too much to guard them. The Mingoes, Delawares & Shawanese are now collecting their men at Muskingham & the Heads of Scioto, as it is probable that they will attempt to cut off the communication to this Post, our Parties must be strong to avoid a check. I have the honor to be &c His Excellency (unsigned), Sir Jeffery Amherst Endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Sir Jeffery Amherst & Fort Pitt 7th Sepr. 1763. [A 4, p 393] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK SIR 18th Sept. 1763. Your Letters of the 26th & 27th August with their several enclosures came to my Hand last night; and I herewith return you the Papers from Major Gladwin. As I had before received all the particulars contained in them by the way of Niagara. You will have seen by my late letters that it was out of my Power to send you any Reinforcements from hence; And I am sorry to find the Advancement of the 42nd to Presqu' Isle this Fall; As that is the case I Doubt not, that you will have been able, with the Assistance of Colonel Stephen and the Virginia Volunteers, to have given the Shawaniese a Seasonable Blow & likewise to have Destroyed some of the Delaware Settlements &ca. for altho' the getting up of the Convoy of Provisions was very Essential for the Subsisting of the Troops, yet



Page 232


232

BOUQUET PAPERS.

were we to make that the only Point in View the Punishmedt of the Savages can never take place & I trust that you will that Instant that you give over thoughts of sending the 42nd to Presqu' Isle have formed some Designs of Acting offensively against the Indians & of Employing the Troops in such operations as can best Distress the Savages who have committed the Depredations. As you have found it Impracticable to send forward the 42nd to Presqu' Isle & should nothing happen after the Date of your Letter, that you can pursue the first Plan, it will be necessary that one or two officers of that Corps, who are to stand on the new Establishment, should immediately proceed either by the Route from Pittsburgh, or come this way to Presqu' Isle, to take the Command of the 40 men gone from Albany, as mentioned in my last, as Captain Irving & Lieut Mant must Return to Joyn the 77h who are ordered home to be Reduced. The men of the 42nd & 77th will either Remain at Presqu' Isle, or Niagara, as Circumstances may Require & are to be Reckoned as belonging to the 42nd Regiment in the Formation of that Corps, according to the new Establishment; for which I have already sent you the necessary orders. "There will be an end to all Discontent among the men of the 60th when you form the first Battallion; as those who are really entitled to their Discharges must get them. I have again repeated my orders to Mess" Plumsted & Franks to Forward whatever supplys you may demand, without waiting for Directions from me; and they acquaint me that they are using their. utmost endeavours to comply with the last orders you sent to them, and are in hopes of having ample supplys forwarded before the Winter "sets in. In regard to the Losses sustained by the Corps in the late Actions; I must observe that some of the charges appear very considerable; & I cannot say that I would encourage throwing away. necessaries; But as many of the things it seems, were thrown away by your orders, and that you Judged it necessary, they shall be paid for, & I shall take the whole Accounts into consideration. The demand of medicines I shall Lay before the Director of the Hospital, but I cannot help taking notice that all those Corps have Surgeons, who have an allowance & ought to provide for the men belonging to their Respective Regiments. I shall thereafter write to you about the winter Quarters. The Six



Page 233


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

233

Companys of the 1st Battalion Royal Americans I Design should garrison Pittsburgh. I am Sir Your most obedt Servt. Colonel Bouquet JEFF AMHERST Endorsed:-Sir Jeffery Amherst 18th September 1763 Received the 16th October. [A 4, p 405] GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK 25th Sept' 1763 SIR I am to own your Letter of the 7th Instant, enclosing the Report of the Indian Express, who had Returned to Fort Pitt, after having been half way to Presqu' Isle. It is likely that a Party of Indians may have beea at Presqu' Isle, at that time, but I cannot think they will have Remained there long: and I Hope the Detachment from Niagara will have been sufficient to take Possession of that Place, and Reistablish a Post agreeably to my orders. The Sloop in which Captain Hope, with a Detachment of the 17th Regiment and Lieut Montresor sailed from Niagara about the middle of last Month, was unfortunately Drove on a Bank between that & Presqu' Isle on the 28th August, and I fear she will be lost, All the People were saved; ~Lieut Montresor took post ashore & sent advice to Major Wilkins, who ordered Captain Cochrane, with Boats & men to their Relief; & I conclude they will have proceeded directly to Presqu' Isle from whence I would chuse the Indians should be gone, as the party cannot be so well Provided after being cast away, as they would have been, had they set out with the design of Forming the -Post at Presqu' Isle. There is no doubt but the Indians on your communication, if they have ammunition will try to Destroy the Cattle; and the only & best way, tb prevent that, unless you can keep them in. certain security is to slaughter the Cattle and have them salted. Mr. Croghan is just now arrived here, last from Sir Wm Johnson's; what carreyd him there I know not; He has brought me Dispatches from Sir William, by which I learn that the Five Friendly Tribes of the Six Nations, at the Conference he has. now with them, Express great Firmness & Steadiness in our Interest; and the Canadat Indians have even offered to act offensively against the Western Tribes, who 30



Page 234


234

BOUQUET PAPERS.

have committed the Hostilities; This is so far good; but I shall not employ them, as all I desire is their Remaining quiet; for I never will put the least trust in any of the Indian Race. Mr. Croghan has desired leave to go to England, on account of his Private Affairs, but I have absolutely refused to comply with his Request, as I think if his 'Presence ever was of any consequence in the Department he filled, it certainly is so at the present time. I have already acquainted you that I had thought proper to allow Provisions to the Troops under your command untill the present Disturbances are Quelled; But as I have given a general order concerning the Stoppages, which' have already commenced in several Districts, I likewise enclose you a copy thereof that the same may be made publick, & observed hereafter, when I shall Judge it Reasonable that the Troops with you should be put on the same footing with the others. You will furnish the Commanding Officer of the Three Companies, ordered to South Carolina, with a copy of the orders, as he must observe the Directions concerning'the Receipts; for the Stoppages are to commence in South Carolina, on the Formation of the Companys; and that these Stoppages may be made in a Regular manner, from the subsistence of the Battalion; I herewith transmit you, a form for the Abstract; when the Receipts are Received from South Carolina: And the same method will be observed hereafter in making the stoppages, from the whole Battalion. I am Sir Your most obt. Servt Colonel Bouquet. JEFF: AMHERST Endorsed: Sir Jeffery Amherst 25th September 1763 Received the 21st Octr [A 4, p 413] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT SIR 30th September 1763. An Express delivered me yesterday your Excellency's Letters bf the 31st August 7th and 12th September with their Inclosures. I think myself very happy in the approbation you have been pleased to Express of my conduct in the Execution of your Orders, and I beg leave to return you my thanks for the commissions, you have so graciously granted to Captain Lieutenant Balneavis and Mr. Peebles. The. other officers whom I had the Honor to recommend, will I hope chearfully accept the favour of being continued in the service upon Ensign's pay, with the Prospect of succeeding in turn to the vacancies.



Page 235


COL. HENRY BOUQUEt TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

235

Captain Ecuyer is recovered of his wounOl, and desires me to express his respectful gratitude for the Honorable mention you have condescended to make of him; He dreads the inaction to which he will shortly be reduced, and is resolved to remain in America, in hopes of being sooner employed. The plan you have proposed to Coll. Stephens appears to me not only practicable, but I think the Execution would be attended with little danger, I enclose an Estimate of the Distances, and as the Shawanoes Towns are now very far from the Ohio, and the Scioto a Shallow River at this season, and narrow, I would rather incline to go by Land, However this must depend upon the weather. Colonel Stephen is a man of Resolution, and in my opinion very capable of executing this commission, he will certainly put all Springs in motion to spirit up his men, and if he can prevail on a sufficient number to follow him, I hold his success for certain. I write to him immediately to offer any assistance in my Power, and press him by every motive that can stimulate his ambition and Publick Spirit. The several Letters you have been pleased to leave open for my perusal are sealed and forwarded by this opportunity. I am sorry Captain Basset has left us, but seeing he was determined to sacrifice his commission to the Recovery of his Health, made me recommend his case to you. Agreeably to your order of the 7th I have fixed upon three companies, as they will stand when the new Establishment takes place, to go to South Carolina, and have appointed the officers as in the enclosed 'List. In case any of them should be at New York, I beg they may receive your orders to proceed to their destination. I send to morrow from hence Capt. Lieut Phillips with all his orders and Letters, and Ensign Price, and have added Lieutn. Baillie for want of another; as he will be included in the Reduction, Captain Phillips is to ask your orders, whether he is to go with the Detachment from Philadelphia. The enclosed State of the officers of the 60th at Present in this Department will Accompt for my not sending the complement ordered, having only the Adjutant, and one Ensign left here for Duty. We have neither spare arms nor accoutrements to send with them, many being lost with the men at the out Post, Besides we have no carriage of any kind here at Present. I must therefore' beg you would grant an order to Captain Phillips for the number of. Arms & Pouches wanted to compleat these three



Page 236


236

BOUQUET PAPERS.

companies which we shall replace as soon as the men will be collected and the Battalion formed. I have not omitted to deliver to Captn. Phillips a copy of that Part of your orders of the 7th August relative to the stoppage to be made for Provisions when received in kind, and which are to commence.the day after these three companies are fixed at their Respective Posts. I am relieved from a Painful anxiety by your generous Suspension of that Order in favour of the Troops now acting in this and the Detroit Departments. For even the Palliatives you had at first thought of, to soften that retrenchment could not avail them as they are circumstanced, nor indeed can they subsist without the full Ration, out of the Settlements, till they have been one year at a Post, to raise some Eatables as greens and Indian corn. I still flatter myself for the good of the service that by the favour of your Intercession, the government will take into consideration the higher price of all kinds of necessaries in this country, which doubles again at the distant Posts, and the want of Quarters and small douceurs allowed in England, that are in fact part of a soldiers pay, of which he is totally deprived in America-And that some allowance will be thought just, as an equivalent for those real differences. I have not received, yet any Intelligence by the way of Presqu' Isle, nor any further account from the Detroit than the magnified Sales which I transmitted to you, the unfortunate fate of Captain Dalyell affects me sensibly shall we not soon obtain an adequate vengeance of those infernal wretches. That insignificant success will have raised the expectations of those villains and I hope that Major Gladwin will take advantage of their insolence to curb their pride and crush them at last. I write to Mr. Read how he is to act in regard to the certificates transmitted to him from Fort Cumberland. I had sent orders from Carlisle to Captain Ourry to allow no Provisions (past the first moment of alarm) but to such persons as could be of service for the defence of the Post, and from Bedford I put the same stop to the Provisions at Fort Cumberland, Mr. Read will inform me from the Dates of the certificates, whether those orders have been observed, and he will receive directions accordingly. I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir Your most obedient & most Humble Servant HENRY BOUQUET Endorsed: To Sir Jeffery Amherst 30th Sept. 1763 [ A 4, p 41( ]



Page 237


GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

237

GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK d October 1763 SIR I am sorry to tell you of a Loss we have had on the Niagara Carrying Place on the 14th September; The Waggons returning to the Lower Landing under a Convoy of a Serjeant & 28 men of Wilmots, were attacked by some Savages. Their Fire being heard by Lieuts Campbell & Fraser, who were encamped with two companies at the Lower Landing, those gentlemen immediately marched out their companies to Reinforce the Convoy; and I conclude imagined it might be a small Body of Indians & Pressed to get to them as Fast as Possible & Perhaps were more Huddled together & less on their guard, than they would have been on any other occasion. Their Zeal% was very commendable but the companys were almost entirely cut off, by being surrounded by a very superior Large body of Savages, said to be 500. As soon as the affair was known at Niagara, Lt. Colonel Browning sent out Major Wilkins with a Large Reinforcement; but before he could get up, the mischief was done and the Enemy gone: The Oxen, Horses & Waggons that were carried off, or Destroyed, will be soon replaced. But I Lament the Loss of so many officers & good men, who Fell in the Discharge of their Duty by the Hands of the Bloody Villains: All the officers who were there vizt Lieuts Campbell & Fraser of the 80th Lieut Rosco of the Royal Artillery: Captain Johnson of the Jersey Provincials & Lieut Dayton of the Yorkers, were killed, and by the Return we have lost six Serjeants & 70 Rank & File, besides two servants, who I suppose were Waggoners. I think it is pretty evident that this Body of Savages must have been those whom your Express mentioned: And it is very likely there may have been some Senecas among them; for by the Tracts, they went towards the Seneca country & their carrying off the Horses is another ground for suspicion, that there were some of that nation at the affair. Those of the Western Tribes, I conclude will Return over the Lakes; tho' some may endeavour to Do more Mischief on the communication: There is one circumstance I think it necessary you should know, that you may be on your Guard, in case the Villains should make any attempt to Deceive your Garrison or the other Posts: I mean, by the cloathing of the 80th Regiment, as they stript all the Dead & carryed off the cloathing arms & accoutrements. I have made an Exchange in the officers of the Battalions 60th since I sent you



Page 238


238

BOUQUET PAPERS.

the List; by appointing Lieut Turnbull to the 2nd & Lieut Van Jugen comes into the 1st which you will Please to give in orders accordingly. I am Sir Your most obed' Servant Colonel Bouquet JEFF. AMHERST Endorsed: Sir Jeffery Amherst 3d October 1763 Received the 21st [A 4, p 421] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT SIR 24h October 1763 I have to acknowledge your Excellencies Letters of the 18h 19h 25h September and one of the 3d October all received the 21st Instant, when the Convoy and our Troops arrived at this Post. I immediately ordered the 42d and 77th to proceed to the Reduction agreeably to the new Establishment, which will take place on the 25h of this month, and when the service of this Campaign is over, the officers and Remains of the 77h will march to New York with part of the Reduced officers of the 42d but as most of the Senior officers of this corps, who are to remain upon full pay, are absent I shall be obliged to detain as many of the Reduced officers of the 42d as will be wanted to compleat the nine companies till the others Joyn, or till your Intentions thereupon are known. I have the Honor to transmit you the Rolls of these two Regiments both as they stood before and will stand after the Reduction. The officers and men wanted to compleat the 'companies of the 42d at Niagara are sent to New York, your orders of the 22d of September regarding the stoppages for Provisions will be given forthwith to the Troops in this District, with the N. B. at the end; and the directions concerning the Receipts &c, is sent to the officer commanding the 3 Companies of the 60h in South Carolina, as ordered Lieutenant Van Jugen will be exchanged at the formation of the first Battalion for Lieut Turnbul. As soon as the officers destined for the Corps can Join us, Those who are to be reduced will be sent down, except the Pay Master Capt. Barnsby who must settle the accounts with every company when it will be Possible to bring them here. The Steadiness of the five nations, and the offers of the Canadian Indians are agreeable I wish they may continue in these dispositions.



Page 239


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

239

But the losses we have sustained at Niagara, and more particularly, that of the Sloop, are most unfortunate at this time the season being so far advanced as to make it very difficult if not impossible to repair it before winter, and the consequences must be so severely felt at the Detroit, and Presqu' Isle, for which I own I am uneasy. The many unavoidable accidents and disappointments at such distances, and the difficulty of the communication, render it nearly impracticable at this time for different Departments to act in concert, and assist one another. The Troops on this side have indeed been altogether employ'd in Escorting of Provisions, and have not been able to act offensively, But that Article as you are pleased to mention required the first attention, as the foundation of all operations, and even -after their continual Fatigues and marches of upwards of 800 miles since June last,f we are not yet sufficiently provided, there being yet a Convoy at Bedford stoped for want of escort with the most material articles, of salt, Pork, Flour and Cattle. The Contractors say that they could not get them ready to Join the last having not received their orders in time tho' I gave them as soon as you authorised me to do it. I have all along expected some assistance of Escorts from the three Provinces, so nearly concerned in the support of this Post, but Pennsylvania Maryland have taught us to depend upon ourselves and in Consequence, I must make some shift to bring up this last convoy which will leave this Fort well supplied. Coll. Stephen has furnished 94 Volunteers who have assisted in escorting the last Provisions arrived. I have tryed every method to engage them to march with us over the Ohio to the nearest Delaware Towns, my endeavours have Proved ineffectual, they are gone back. That is one of the two attacks that can be executed this way, and which I mentioned to you as practicable, with a Reinforcement of 300 men. However in obedience to your desire, I would have attempted it with that small addition of men fit for such Expeditions. But without a certain number of woodsmen I cannot think it advisable to employ regulars in the woods against Savages, as they cannot procure any Intelligence, and are open to Continual Surprises, nor can they Pursue at any distance their Enemy when they have Routed them, and should they have the misfortune to be Defeated the whole would be Destroyed if above one day's march from a Fort. That is my opinion in which I hope to be deceived. The first of those five Delaware Towns is 52 miles distant the furthest 100. The other attack may be directed against the Shawanoes Settlements,



Page 240


240

BOUQUET PAPERS.

and requires a great force on account of the apparent impossibility of surprising them as they are now situated having to go about 70 miles against stream up the Muskingum to their nearest Town from the Ohio, and supposing one to be surprised they are so near one another, that the alarm would be immediately spread, they are not far from the Miamis Indians and most of the Delawares have Joyn'd them, so that they must be carried by main Force. Coll Stephen writes me of the 10th instant that he can raise 1,000 men for that expedition and march as soon as he is informed whether the crown or the colony are to defray the Expence. If that difficulty can be got over, the month of November is the most favourable for the execution of that Plan, and I shall keep the Troops ready to reinforce him with a Detachment and 25 Batteaux for the Provisions and light Baggage of the men, who can march unincumbered along the shore, and cover the Batteaux. If it cannot take place this fall, it may in the Spring, tho' by no means so proper for several reasons. The remains of the militia of this Post being most of them naked and without any certainty of being paid for their services have refused to stay here any longer, and are going down. Their wretched condition pleads in their favour, and as they have hitherto behaved 'well, and been usefull on several occasions, I take the liberty to recommend them to your consideration for an allowance of Pay from the Provinces of the Crown, during the time of their services which I have certified excluding all deserters &c. A number of them have lost their Horses & Cattle by being detained for the defense of the Fort, and all the inhabitants their Houses.. From the inconsiderable number of Royal Americans remaining in this Department and the impossibility that the Detachments from Detroit and Niagara can Join us this year to form the six companies it becomes unavoidable to employ the 42 Regt to Garrison this Fort and the communication. As you chuse that the corps should remain as much together as the service will Permit, would you indulge me Sir, to propose to you the following disposition of these Troops after the Campaign is over. Six Companies of the 42d at Fort Pitt One at Ligonier One at Bedford The Royal Americans at Fort Cumberland and the rest to the Settlemeuts that Corps having been six years in the Woods, and their spirit so much cast down, I would hope that a little rest would recruit them. and make them more fit for service in the Spring. If they are



Page 241


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

241

kept here another winter, I foresee a great Desertion and the rest discouraged will be good for nothing. As to myself I am sensible that I could be of more service below to settle our accompts and prepare what you will think necessary for the next campaign, than by remaining confined here, from whence I can give no orders in time, nor procure any Temporary assistance from the Provinces. But I submit to whatever you are pleased to Determine whether I am to remain or not I think it necessary to be recommended "to you if an Engineer can not be spared, that you would appoint an assistant able to make the necessary Repairs to our new Works in case of a flood. I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir Your most obedt and most Humble Servt HENRY BOUQUET Endorsed: Copy of a Letter to Sir Jeffery Amherst dated Fort Pitt 24th October 1763 Received by General Gage the 11th November [A 4, p 430] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. FORT PITT 10 November 1763 SIR I received on the 6th Instant your Letters of the 10th 14th & 16th October, and have the honor to return your Excellency my thanks for obtaining the King's gracious order to replace the Battalion's subsistance money stolen in 1761. There being no magistrate at this Place, I can not at present get the certificates attested upon oath. But I hope that in case of my death, before I can have complied with that Requisite; The Paymaster of the corps will not suffer by it. * * * * * * * * Captain Cochrane will be exchanged for Captain Gordon in Carolina, but he must first clear his own company here, which for want of the Books has not been settled with for the time they have been at Niagara & Presqu' Isle and have large claims of arrears, of which I send him the accompt, which he alone can settle. I shall be very glad to see as soon as possible the Duty Major you have promised me in the room of Baron Munster; The 42d Regt would likewise be much the better for one of their Field officers. The combination of all the Indians against us may prolong the war, but can make little alteration in the Event, if the Provinces will exert themselves, & enable you to act vigorously next year. 31



Page 242


212

BOUQUET PAPERS.

As to the particular Intelligence transmitted by Sir William Johnson of the 6th October, it gives me little concern, Being usual with our pretended Indian Friends to give us Information of the Enemy's Intentions after they have had time to strike their blow, and I have no doubt that what he said must have happened previously to the attack of this Post, and our Engagement in the woods, which seems to have cured them from attempting any thing of consequence against our Troops this way. They find it easier to attack the defenceless Inhabitant. I have the honor to be Wth great Respect Sir Your most obedient and most Humble Servant HENRY BOUQUET FORT PITT 1st December 1763. SIR Yesterday two Six Nation Indians arrived here Express from the Detroit wth the inclosed Packett for your Excellency and are to wait here for your answer. Major Gladwin has communicated to me the agreeable change of affairs that way which I hope will soon extend to our Ohio Savages. I received by that opportunity a Letter from the French Commandant of the Illinois to the same purpose as that he had wrote to the Major. But I suppose those Posts will be taken possession of from below, which is on several accounts much easier. Our last convoy arrived likewise yesterday & brought me your Letter of the 27th Oct. The Snow and bad Roads had obliged them to discharge at Bedford the waggons & most of the Horses being unable to proceed by which means we have received a very scanty supply, a disapointment owing to the want of activity in the contractors who might have complied with their orders a full mtnth sooner. Having no answer yet to my last Letter of the 24th October, I have disposed the Troops into winter Quarters agreeably to your orders of the 1i0h of October viz. At Fort Pitt The Royal Americans At Fort Pitt Three Companys of 42d At Ligonier One Compy 42d At Bedford One do At Carlisle Thre do of do. The Remains of the 77th Regt. march to N. York.



Page 243


GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

243

The great Reduction of the Royal Americans by desertion, the extent of this Fort, and precarious state of its Temporary Fortifications in case of a Flood, have obliged me to keep here the three Compy's of the 42d the garrison being as small as the circumstances could possibly permit to reduce it. I have the honor to be His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst Endorsed: Scrawls of two Letters to the General of the 10th Novr & let Decr 1763-- (Entered) [A 4, p 440] GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK SIR 18th November 1763. Sir Jeffery Amherst having embarked on the 17th Instant for England, the command of His Majesty's Troops in North America has devolved on me as you will be informed by the orders accompanying this, His Excellency has left it with me to answer your two letters of 24th and 27th October, the first received here the llth Instant. The nature of the service you have been upon this campaign must I am certain have greatly harassed and fatigued the Troops & the Difficulties in getting up your convoys extreamly great; I hope however you have been able to get up the last convoy, which I am pleased to find will leave your fort well supplied. I am sorry the two Provinces of Pennsylvania & Maryland have been so backward in affording you that assistance which is so much their interest to do; It is as you observe next to impossible, to march in Woods with the Regulars alone without being every moment subject to a surprise from which a body of good woodsmen would effectually secure you. In respect of the expedition you propose in conjunction with Colonel Stephen; The Crown will defray all the Expences, he has always been at on such occasions, provided you approve of it, and that the season is not too far advanced to put it in Execution, when you Receive my Letter. If it should be too late to be atte~npted this year, it must be refused till Spring. And as soon as you shall have finished the operations possible to be effected this year; put your Fort in a proper state of Defence & secured your communication, I shall be very glad to see you at New York, to concert with you the operations for ensuing Spring. By Sir Jeffery Amherst's letter to you of the 10th of October you will see it was his Excellency's Intention that the company of the 1st



Page 244


244

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Battn should remain in Garrison at Fort Pitt and that 8 Companys of the 42d Regt should be disposed of along the communication. And this His Excellency repeated to me, as that Regiment will probably be employed on another side the next year. I have neither Engineer or Persons fit to act in that capacity, but if you can find amongst your Troops any person who will answer the purposes you intend him for in such works of the Fort which shall be necessary to be repaired in case of a Flood you will please to give him such orders & Directions as you shall think Proper. It would be very proper to take down the Names & Places of abode of the Militia whom you represent in so bad a condition from their Detention at Fort Pitt; They should be made amends for their sufferings; And I will see whither the Crown, or Provisions will satisfy them. I can give no answer to Mr. Menzie's Petition, but shall talk to Lt. Colonel Reid about it who most likely has some Lieutenant who would act on Ensign's pay. The Reduced Corporals have in other Regiments served as Privates, but to be reinstated as Corporals on the first opportunity. Nov' 19th Capt" Graham & Cambell arrived here this morning with the Rolls of the 42nd & 77th Regts. I hope the former will be near compleated & shall send Home the officers with the remains of the 77th as soon as they arrive, in the Transports which are now here for that Purpose I am with great regard Sir your most obedient humble Servant THos. GAGE I send this by Mr. Rodeart late Q. M. of the 4th Battn now appointed by the Reduction to the first Battn. Colonel Bouquet Fort Pitt [A 8, p 337] GiEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK Dec 22nd 1763 SIR Your letter of the 10th of November and 1st of December with Major Gladwin's Dispatches from the Detroit fell into my hands yesterday forwarded express from Philadelphia by Messr' Plumstead & Franks. You may supply the want -of a Magistrate at Fort Pitt by the Judge Advocate as I conclude you have some Person with you sufficiently



Page 245


GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

215

empowered to act in that capacity. Attestations made before him where there are no Civil Magistrates will be valid. Captain Cochrane is now in this Town I shall acquaint Him of his being appointed to one of the Carolina Companys and what you sett fourth concerning the Accts. of his former Company. Major Williams was the Person proposed by Sir Jeff Amherst for the purchase of Baron Munster's Majority. I am sorry to acquaint you with the misfortune which befell that Gentleman's Detachment on Lake Erie, on their way to succour the Detroit. they embarked in the night of the 7th Nov. a violent storm arose about 12 o'clock in which they lost Lt. Davidson of the Artillery Lt. Painter of the Platoon & Doctor Williams of the 80th Regt with four Serjeants and sixty three Rank & File a great many Boats, Provisions, one six pounder and almost all their Ammunition. This obliged them to return again to Niagara. Major Wilkins is on his way hither with a number of men of your Battn, I have his commission ready if he approves of the Pur-chase of Commission, but I cant be informed of his Resolution till he.arrives. As Major Gladwyn has communicated to you the overtures made by the Indians of the Detroit I need not say much on that subject but that the sincerity of them can only be discovered hereafter. And in the mean time the Major will be on his guard and not put it in their power to do us further mischief by their treachery. As you observe its likely the other tribes of Indians may sue for peace, but I would have no overtures of that nature come from us as I think it would be rather the means to protract the war if they are really inclined to make peace they will of themselves apply to Sir W"' Johnson. Col Robertson has Instructions to relieve some of the Posts on the Mississippi from Mobile, but I understand those on the Ohio were intended "to be relieved from Pittsburgh. But you are not at present in a position to comply with Mons. de Negou's Request. I am glad the convoy at length got up, and could wish it was more -ample, and that the Contractors were more active in their Business. Whatever Regulations you have made in Quartering the Troops for the Winter must remain, and I hope the officers and men of the 77th Regt will be here as soon as there are transports which have been waiting for them some months. You will be so good to send the Indians with the Dispatches transmitted herewith for Major Gladwin, as soon as you shall receive them. I had received the Duplicates of them some days ago, brought by Lt Montressor who left the Detroit on the 20th November. Major Gladwin



Page 246


246

BOUQUET PAPERS.

had reduced his garrison to 212 men, & sent away the remainder to Niagara, where they arrived on the 27th. The Major had supplied his Garrison with Provisions and Firewood. I am Sir Your most obedient humble Servant THOS. GAGE Genl Gage 28th December 1763 Received 11th Janry 1764 (Entered) [A 8, 341] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. FORT PITT 27h Dec'. 1763 SIR On the 19th Instant I had the Honor to receive your Excellency's Letter of the 18th November & beg leave to congratulate you on your appointment to the Chief Command of His Majesty's Troops in North America. It was too late in the year to think of any operation this way, but if you don't think proper to grant Peace to the Indians, the same Plan may be followed with your approbation in the Spring. Three sides of this Fort which are not rivetted having been rendered almost defenceless by two successive floods in 1762 & 1763 I have caused three Redoubts to be built to cover them, two are compleated and the third going on as fast as the weather will permit. The Posts in the Communication are secured and provided with sufficient stores, & agreeably to your Orders I have appointed Ensign Hutchins of the 60th to act here as Engineer till one can be sent up. The Delaware & Shawanese Indians have made as yet no application for Peace; There is so little dependence on the Barbarians tho' I make no doubt that they will soon sue for Peace, I wish the Province may not neglect to prepare for war by compleating any Troops required, For in my humble opinion the only certainty we can have of planting Peace is not to grant it to them but at the Head of such Forces as must convince them of our ability to chastise them if they break it. I am sorry to be obliged to report to you that Captain John Stewart of the 42d Regiment who command the Escort of the last Convoy was under the necessity to put under arrest Lieut Gray of the 60th & Lieut Watsin of the 77th. Being conscious that he could have given them no reason for the rash (blank) contained in (Sic) their crime inclossed, I



Page 247


LIEUT. DEDERICK BREHM TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. 247 endeavoured to convince them that their conduct is unjustifiable and prevail upon them to give under their Hands such Declaration to Capt. Stewart as would appear a proper satisfaction for that insult, but they persist in their obstinacy, and have not even digned to answer my letter, I shall order them to this Post with the first Escort, to remain here in confinement till I can receive your orders for a General Court Martial for which a sufficient number of officers cannot be collected before the Spring. I hope to have the pleasure to pay my Respects to Your Excellency in February. H. B. [A 7, p 9] LIEUT. DEDERICK BREHM TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DEAR COLONEL, At the time I had the pleasure of writing you my Last Lettre, in which I begged you would be so kind, as to acquaint the officers, of the first Battalion if any of them had a mind to exchange half pay for full pay thinking at that time that the difference with the Indians, would be made up by next Spring; but as the General intends to punish them next Summer, by his Lettres to Colonel Gladwing; I could not possibly think of leaving the Regiment untill all matters between them were settled; I therefore begg you would be pleased to suspend it, untill all things are peasibly settled again. The Indians (those Nations who were obliged to take up arms against us by the Ottawas and Chipawas) are coming from time to time, begging Major Gladwin to interceed by the General for to procure Pease for them, Representing the starving Condition they-are in, for want of Ammunition and cloathing, but they obtain very little. Our Garrison is in a perfect health and we are well provided with Provisions etc. Colonel Gladwin and all the Gentlemen in this Garrison desire their compliments to you and all the Gentlemen with you. Dear Colonel With the greatest Regard Your most obedient DETROIT January 4th and most Humble Servant 1764 D. BREHM To Colonel Bouquet Endorsed: From Lieut Brehm 4th January 1764. Received the llth May. [A 20, p 2]



Page 248


248

BOUQUET PAPERS.

LIEUT. GEORGE MCDOUGALL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 8th January 1764. DEAR SIR Since my last to you by Aron the Indian, we have had nothing new here; the Savages is all gone to there hunting and seem ernest of making Peace; Inclosed is a Return of the Royal Americans, thats here; the Savages of Sagena has brought in three of the Royal Americans and begs earnestly for pardon. Major Gladwin desires me to acquaint you that he wrote to Lieut Jenkins to go to New Orleans, or the first English garrison with his men which is, twenty in number; I have also enclosed the men's names that has a right to their discharge, which I thought would be agreeable to you to have as I make no doubt, of joining you next Summer; I should be glad to know of anything that you want from this be assured that nothing would give me greater pleasure than serving you. From Sir Your much obliged Humble Servant To GEORGE MCDOUGALL Colonel Bouquet Endorsed: From Lieut McDoagall, 8th January 1761 Received the 11th May [A 20, p 3] ENSIGNS CHRISTIE, SCHLOSSER AND PAULI TO COL. BOUQUET. DETROIT 8th January 1764. SIR By this Express we take the Liberty to acquaint you that by the advice of Colonel Gladwin we have sent a Memorial to His Excellency Sir Jeffery Amherst representiug to him the Losses we have met with at our several Posts &c. We made no mention of our hopes of the preferment that might naturally arise from the deaths of some of the officers of the Battalion, we being the three oldest Ensigns, as we expected he would leave that to your determination; we should have done ourselves the Honour to request that you would use your Interest ere now, Had not our Hopes of joining you according to general orders, prevented us. From the Willingness, you have always shewn



Page 249


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE.

249

to assist every officer in the Battalion, we are in Hopes that you wont forget us. We are with the utmost Respect Sir Your most obedient Humble Servants JOHN CHRISTIE T. L. SCHLOSSER H. C. PAULI Endorsed: Letter from the Ensigns, Schlsser, Christie and Pauli, 8th January 1761, Received the llth May. [A 20, p 4] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. FORT BEDFORD llth Feby 1764. SIR I have the Honor to acknowledge your Excellency's Letters of the 22nd of December & 26th January. Your dispatches for Major Gladwine were forwarded', immediately by the two Indian Expresses. Your Orders dated at Head Quarters the 5th of last month, have been transmitted to the different Posts in this Department. If the Zeal of this Troops was susceptible of (blank) it would have been effected by so great a condescention of His Majesty's most gracious approbation of their services. I left Fort Pitt on the 21st January after having finished the temporary repairs that appeared necessary for the deffence of that Post, agreeably to your orders of the 18th November & as the last supply I had received had fallen short of my expectation-I have improved the opportunity of the communication being clear of Indians to form another Convoy and to morrow I shall have here 500 Horses to carry flour to Fort Pitt, which will give us some ease in the Spring. As soon as they are dispatched I shall proceed without delay to New York to receive your further commands. No motive but the desire of forwarding the service, to which I have devoted all my time, could have detained me so long in this wilderness, where for want of assistance I have been obliged to take upon me every branch. I am sorry for the distressed situation of the three companies relieved from Niagara, tho' it is no more than might' be expected from the hard service that Battalion has been employed in for six years scattered among the savages and in the remotest part of our new frontiers. I shall put them in order as soon as possible. 32



Page 250


260

BOUQUET PAPERS.

I see with the greatest satisfaction that you have determined to punish the Delawares & Shawanese; the Senecas the better protected do not deserve a milder treatment & I wish they might be compelled to incorporate & mix with the other Five Nations and loose their odious name, as after their unparalled Treachery, a sincere Reconciliation can never be placed on either side. H. B. [A 7, p 11] LIEUT. GEORGE MCDOUGAL TO OOL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT DEAR SIR March ye. 24th 1764 I received a letter from Lieut Potts, Dated Fort Pitt Janry 17th 1764 wherein he says that the Returns of The Royal Americans at Detroit, dated November the 2nd does not agree to the preceeding Returns (viz) that of July which very much surprises me, I am certain that their numbers are right, and if there is any mistake it is the fault of the Serjeant in Captain Etherington's Compy. who did not make mention of one Draught, thats in his company, but I included them in their Return to me as if he had belonged to Capt. Etheringtons; By your orders Lieut Potts desires that I would make out Effective Rolls of each Company, and send to him by the first opportunity, which I have done, I also understand by Lieut Hay that you have desired the same from him, which I have given him a Copy to forward to you the same which I have sent to Lieut Potts, without which he could not have sent one to you, but at the same time have left Lieut Potts Letter open in which the Return to him is inclosed, if you please to look over it and inclose and forward the Return to Lieut Potts, I have also made out the Muster Rolls of the late Captain Campbell's Company to the 24th of October, 1763, which you may believe was very difficult to do as there is not an officer that belongs to that Company here, of which I have sent a copy of each sett, to Lieut Potts; I have also inclosed the men's names, that have writings for their Discharge &c. & those that are unfit for service, to you, with a Return of the Royal Americans here. I did myself the Honour to write to you the 2nd of January & I inclosed a Return of the Royal Americans thats here, and at the same time beg'd that if -you wanted any thing from this part of the world, that you would employ me as nothing would give greater satisfaction than to be of the least use to you. We have been very quiet all this winter till about eight days ago a hundred Pottawattomies came to take a Scalp or a Prisoner, but



Page 251


LIEUT. JEHU HAY TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

251

got neither, all the damage that they did was to kill eight or ten of the Inhabitants cattles and go off, we are employed in getting in wood, and fortifying the Garrison as much as possible, as we expect all the Villains this way soon. From Sir Your most obliged humble Servant To GEORGE MCDOUGALL Colonel Bouquet Endorsed: Letter from Lieut McDougall 24h March 1764. [A 20, p 76] LIEUT. JEHU HAY TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET DETROIT March 25th 1764. SIR, The Fourteenth of February I was honoured with your favour of the 15th January, and Return you my most humble thanks for your attention and good will to serve me, I should be glad to accept of the benefit of 2000 acres at present, but I do not know upon what footing we are to have them, nor in what place. By this opportunity Colonel Gladwin has wrote to the General to get me appointed Fort Major, or as Quarter Master General at this Place; which I believe will succeed, if you should happen to be present (sic) and back what Colonel Gladwin has been good enough to write. Be assured Sir that it is my circumstances that forces me to be troublesome, otherwise I would not accept anything that would be given me to stay here longer than till such time as things were settled,,Inclosed you have the Rolls you mentioned to me, which I should have sent long ago had I not been persuaded Mr. McDonald, or Mr. McDougall, had done it, in whose hands the Returns all were. I suppose I need not inform you that Mr. McDougall is married.- As we are not sure what men were killed at all the out Posts, there is many returned Prisoners, who perhaps are dead, especially of the Garrison of Michilimackinac, which return Capt. Etherington undoubtedly knows more of than me. I am with great esteem Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant Colonel Bouquet. JEHU HAY Endorsed: Letter from Lieut Jehn Hay 25th March 1764. Received 11th May To Colonel Bouquet. [A 20, p 78]



Page 252


-252

BOUQUET PAPERS.

ENSIGNS CHRISTIE, SCHLOSSER AND PAULI TO COL. BOUQUET. DETROIT 10th April 1764..SIR In the month of January we did ourselves the honour to acquaint you that by the advice of Colonel Gladwin, we had presented to General Amherst the Losses we had sustained by the Indian War, that we had not mentioned to him our hopes of the preferment that might naturally arise from the deaths of some of the officers in the Regt. we being the oldest Ensigns, as we expected he would leave that to your Determination, that we would have done ourselves that Honour long before that time, had we not had hopes of joining you according to General Orders, which prevented us; we now beg of you that you'll remind Genl. Gage of this affair' in order that we may be reimbursed for our Losses, which are too considerable for us to bear. That of Ensign Christie is ~147 Sterlg. for Baggage & Stores, that of Ensign Schlosser ~87-10 Sterlg. for Baggage &c. that of Ensign Pauli is ~80 Sterlg for Baggage &c. The Indians have kept pretty quiet this winter, but we expect they'll soon commence Hostilities. This goes by the Schooner. We are with all possible Respect Sir Your most obedt. Humble Servants JOHN CHRISTIE J. SOCHLOSSER Colonel Henry Bouquet H. E. PAULI Endorsed: Letter from Ensigns Christie, Schlosser and Paali 10th April 1764 Received the 30th May [A 20, p 102] LIEUT. GEO. MCDOUGALL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 11th April 1764. DEAR SIR, I did myself the Honour to write to you by an Express, by the way of Niagara dated March 24th & Inclosed a Return of the Royal Americans thats here &c at the same time Inclosed, an Effective Roll of Each Company to Lieut Potts, which I hope came safe to hand. I likewise inclosed to you a list of the mens names that has a right to their discharge and those that really are unfit for Service. The men here is in a miserable situation for want of cloathing and even in want of every necessary to make them appear like soldiers, I



Page 253


DEPOSITION OF GORSHAM HICKS.

253

0

hope if they are not to be relieved that their Cloathing may be sent to them. Colonel Gladwin has often declared that he never wishes to command better men, indeed their behaviour is surprising, since I have the honour to command them we have not had one Court Martial, but does their commands, and Fatigues which is manny with the greatest pleasure and chearfullness, I shall be glad to hear from you. From Sir Your yery much obliged Humble Servant To Colonel Bouquet GEORGE MCDOUGALL. Endorsed: From Lieut McDougall 11th April 1764 Received 30h May [A 20, p 108] DEPOSITION OF GORSHAM HICKS. APRIL 14th, 1764. Gorshom Hicks a man about Thirty years of age, arrived at Fort Pitt having made his escape from the Indians, says that he was a Servant to Patrick Allison, an Indian Trader, and was made Prisoner last May, by the Shawanese, near Muskingum, the rest of his fellow Horse Drivers (four in number) being killed by the Savages, about the same time; the Shawanese kept him prisoner about four days, then gave him to a Delaware, known by the name of Captain Bullet, who kept him near twenty days at a place called Moquesin, a Delaware Town, on Muskingum River: from thence he was sent to help to build a House at the Salt Licks, for White Eyes a Delaware Chief, at which place he remained all winter hunting thereabouts for meat, for himself and some other White Prisoners that were with the Delawares at that place, (viz John Gibson & one Morris) that about thirty days agoe he was sent to a place called Hockhocbin, where King Beaver lives at present about Thirty Miles on this side the Scioto; There. he was to hunt in company with two Delawares, that in a few days one of them left him & went home again to go to war, leaving orders with Hicks to follow him which he did do in eight or nine days afterwards and went up the Hockhocking River for near a mile leaving the other Indian by himself to hunt and Physick, that he thought this a good time to come off, so turned back again with his Canoe & came into the Ohio River, into which the Hockhocking River emptys itself, then crossed the Ohio to the South East Side when he left his Canoe and came up by Land having his Gun and about Twenty Loads of Powder and Ball



Page 254


254

BOUQUET PAPERS.

with him. Says this is eight days agoe and that he saw three Indians, the day before yesterday making a Raft to cross the River, to the side he was on about 100 miles below the Fort, He further says that there was a Council held at the Salt Licks, last fall by the Delawares, in which it was agreed that two of their Chiefs with White Eyes should be sent to some of the French Forts on the Mississippi, who accordingly went to ask the French to join them to make war against the English this Spring and to give them some Ammunition, which Articles he says he is very sure neither the Shawanese or Delawares have above a pint and many of them but half a pint of Powder each man and lead in Proportion. (N. B. Hicks speaks the Delaware language very well also understands the Shawanese Tongue a little and as the Indians had great confidence in him from his being a Prisoner with them once before, and having what he calls Friends among them he was therefore trusted with all their Secrets and Designs) further says that White Eyes and the two other Chiefs returned again the beginning of last March very much dissatisfied with the answers they got from the French and that they were not provided ammunition at all except three pints, and a little powder to carry them home again, telling them to go back and take care of their wives and children that they were all as one with the English now and would not fight against them. Hicks says he thinks that with the Delawares and SShawanese. he has seen about 50 or 60 white Prisoners, (sic) and of which one women and young persons, and most of them taken last war. That the small pox has been very general & raging among the Indians since last Spring and that 30 or 40 Mingoes, as many Delawares & some Shawanese, died all of the small pox since that time, that it still continues amongst them. He says the general talk amongst the Indians, was that they intended going in pretty large parties this Summer to murder the Frontier Inhabitants, but did not mean to attack any of the Forts, that the Indians are all in want of all kinds of cloathing and are obliged to wear skins &c. with regard to Fort Detroit, he says he does not know what is doing there, but that 30 or 40 Ottawas and Wiandotts were expected by the Delawares every day to Council, and that he has heard and believes it is the intention of the Delawares to let the Ottawas and Wiandotts know that it does not suit them to continue the war, and that as they begun it they must fight it out themselves. He further says, that he is very certain the Delawares have not living above 150 fighting men, and 30 or 40 boys, which is all they can send to war, leaving at the same time about 30 or 40 old men & hunters to take care of their Families & Planting, that the



Page 255


CAPT. WILLIAM GRANT TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

255

Shawanese, he is not so well acquainted with, but is very sure they have not more than 200 Warriors. The Mingoes are very few not above Twenty remaining in that part of the Country, further says that the Shawanese & Delawares were very uneasy & affraid of the Six Nation Indians Coming to war against them this Summer; Being asked if he heard anything of French Andrew or Aaron, and the Wiandott Indians that went express from this Post to Detroit, says he heard nothing of them & that if they had been detained by any nation on this side of Detroit, he must have heard of it; that the Indians are a little divided amongst themselves about continuing the war, & that King Beaver and Castologa have advised them to Peace, and are still doing the same, and that King Shingoes died last winter further says, that they expect the English will march an army into their Country this Summer, and are much at a loss what to do with their families, having very little Indian Corn for Planting, and no meat laid up in Store, only what they kill daily and use from hand to mouth. WILLIAM GRANT Capt 42 Regiment Endorsed Deposition of Gorsham Hicks, 14 April 1764 FA 20, p 126] CAPT. WILLIAM GRANT TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR Yesterday just as I had sealed my Letters a Prisoner came in here who made his escape from the Savages, his deposition was taken before me, which is here enclosed, I have likewise enclosed one to the General. I am with great Truth and Sincerity Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant FORT PITT WILLIAM GRANT April 15th 1764 [Colonel Bouquet] Endorsed: Captain Grant April 15th 1764 [A 20, p 126]



Page 256


256

BOUQUET PAPERS.

LIEUT. DEDERICK BREEM TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DEAR COLONEL, My Last Letter I had the Honour writing you, in which I begged that the proposition of me going upon half pay, might be suspendeduntill the affairs with the Indians are accommodated, but as by the last news, we got by our Schooner the 29th April, seemingly matters will be made up before next Sammer, and as I dont know where our Regiment will be or if I can join them in time; I therefore begg it as a particular favour to grant me your kind assistant (being told that it entirely depends upon the commanding officer of the Regiment) in giving or procuring me leaf to go out of the Regiment upon my Lieutenants full pay;' as in time of peace, without Interest and money no hopes of preferment is left to me: so that all the comfort I can propose myself towards my approaching Old Days, is to live independent upon my full Pay. I likewise begg your Advice to know if such thing could be brought about, as to get an half pay Ensign to fall in, for to make up the Vacancy of the Ensigncy; If such thing could be done I'll make all the Interest I can with Colonel Gladwin, to intercede by General Gage, who always had a very humaine disposition, to assist any Gentleman without hurting the Interest of the Nation. I was told that none of our Lieuts but myself was standing in the first Battalion, Els I had wrote to one of them junior to me to propose it to the rest of the Subalterns. There have several small partys of Indians been about us, with the Intent of getting a Scalp or Prisoner but not being in their Power went off after killing a few Kows, and the last a few days ago fired upon three of our men, who are in the day time at a little abandoned advanced Post, but did no harm. A prisoner, soldier of our Regiment, who lately came in from the Indians at Saginaw Bay in Lake Huron, told that the Indians had killed, several Prisoners this Spring, and had threatened to burn him, for which reason he made his escape, when he was sent to cut wood, he further says that they said they would come this Spring in great numbers to take the Fort, we have had several, and different accompts; some say they only will act upon their defence, others again say, that the Delawars and Shawanees, with some Northern Indians, will join the Ottawas make skaling Ladders and storm the Fort; however it may be Colonel Gladwin is prepared for them, but at the same time we are very well used to theyr threatenings, they very often say they would storm a little advance Post, we had lash year but never did it. Mr. Prentys, who was Prisoner with the Hurons at Sandusky, was brought in three days ago by an Indian.



Page 257


GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

257

Some of the well disposed Hurons came from theyre Hunting and got Liberty of Colonel Gladwin to live and plant theyre corn, about two miles lower down the River, where they used to live formerly. After recommending me once more in your favor, I am with the greatest Respect Dear Colonel Your most obedient Humble Servant D. BREHM. DETROIT May 1st 1764 To Colonel Bouquet Endorsed: Letter from Lieut Brehm May lst 1764. Received the 30th [A 20, p 152] GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK May 14th 1764 SIR Your letter of the 21st April was received by me some days ago, and on the 12th Instant I was favored with both your letters of the 2nd Inst with the Dispatches from Fort Pitt. I am of your opinion that the Delawares &c will soon sue for peace The Terms you ptopose are very proper, I shall acquaint Sir William Johnson with these particulars when the Time comes, to treat of Peace that Transaction must be left entirely with Him, my chief Design in demanding a Tract of Land for the King is in order to form a military Establishment near Fort Pitt; by granting the Land in Lotts of 100 or 150 Acres, or Military Tenures and on such conditions, as shall be proper for the welfare and security of such a settlement, dependant only on the King & his Generals. They should have Courts of Justice of their own & in every respect be a little Community by Themselves of which the Commandant of the Fort should be Governor It is confidently said, that neither Virginia or Pensylvania can claim by their Charter up to the Ohio. I wish you could get some certain knowledge of this matter, and how far their Boundarys really go. I am informed Virginia does not go beyond the heads of Potowmack. As you have a perfect knowledge of the country round Fort Pitt I wish when you have Leizure to think of such a Project that you would sketch out the Spots proper to begin upon and how to proceed 33



Page 258


258

BOUQUET PAPERS.

till the whole Tract should be settled, in different Townships, taking in the waters upon the Right and left as much as possible and always have in view Security and Defence. Proper Conditions should likewise be thought of Mustering and Days of Exercise obligation to appear in Arms, Quantity of Ammunition each to have at all times-Obligation to cultivate the Ground in Limited Times, supply the Forts at Market Rates, so many Cattle Naggs &c in such a Time after the Grant given To have so many Boats in the Settlement allways ready for service, each to contain so many men with so many months provision. A great many undigested thoughts have come into my head on this Subject and I give them to you as they occur. But you will give an alarm if you mention of such a project therefore dont talk of it. It was not intended that Colonel Bradstreet should make any stay at Presqu' Isle; The uncertainty of the Detroit Indians whether they will be inclined to peace or war as also of the Indians beyond Detroit in going to Michillimackinac, will make it impossible for Colonel Bradstreet to send any Reinforcement from Presqu' Isle, till his Return from Michillimackinac: and that may be very late. All his Troops are beyond Albany except those Connecticut; who are not moved yet, as I can learn with certainty out of their Province. The scheme you propose is the very plan intended, if you should be able to assemble a Body sufficient to execute it: and Sir Wm Johnson has promised that a large Body of Indians should join you at Fort Pitt when I should demand them. I suppose this will find you at Philadelphia as the Assembly was to meet this Day, but I don't imagine they will do anything more than declare the sentiments of their constituents agreeable to their last resolve and perhaps petition the King to take them under his Protection. I have read the Deposition of Hicks, the last has been in part confirmed by a Trader whom I have examined; who was at Fort Charters Prisoner when White Eyes and the other two Indians arrived there. Hicks is a great villain, I am glad he is secured, and I must desire you will have him tried by a Genl Court Martial for a Spy. Let the Proceedings of the Court prove him a Spy as strong as they canAnd if he does turn out a Spy he must be hanged. The two Mackays are retired on Half Pay, and are succeeded by Lieut Prevost and Hutchinson If Lieut Caire would purchase it again its Time he should be here, He shall not lose his Rank but the sooner he comes the better. I expect Lieut Jenkins by the first ship from Mobile: I am to acquaint you that you have His Majesty's Permis

Page 259


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO SIR WILLIAM JOHNSON.

259

sion to return to England as soon as the service will permit you to leave your Command. I am with great regard Sir Your most obedient humble Servant Colonel Bouquet THOS GAGE Letter from His Excellency General Gage dated at New York the 14th May 176t Received the 16th answered the 20th [A 8, p 385] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO SIR WILLIAM JOHNSON. PHILAD^' 31st May 1764. SIR General Gage having been pleased to appoint me to command the troops in the Southern department and the Government of Pennsylvania having at last yesterday framed their bill giving one thousand men to act in conjunction with his Majesty's Forces employed this way, I beg you will permit me to have the honour to correspond with you, I request the favour of your sentiments concerning the operations intended against the Indians. As I have no certain information of the numbers they can collect for the defence of their country from among themselves and their Allies, nor of the situation of their Towns & the difficulty of getting at them but from the imperfect accounts of our Traders. I shall be much obliged to you to give what intelligences you have upon these heads & your oppinion as to the number of Troops you would Judge necessary to answer the purpose of destroying their Towns without too great a risque of being overpowered, likewise whether you would think it most adviseable to attack them by going down the river or by marching by Land from Fort Pitt. In the first case I am apprehensive that from the delays of this province we have allready lost the opportunity.of the high waters & that even supposing the Ohio to be navigable, the Muskingham, or Siota would be too shallow to admit loaded Batteaus of which we have not a sufficient number to carry the necessary Troops and I am informed that it would be extreamly difficult for men and Horses to march along the shore, (supposing the Batteaus to carry the Provisions, on account of the craggy Hills Swamps and high weeds; and to build a sufficient number of Batteaus at Pittsburgh would require at least three months besides the Risque in case of miscarriage to have to go back against the Stream. To go by land with Pack Horses and



Page 260


260

BOUQUET PAPERS.

cattle is certainly slow and expensive, but the woods at a certain distance from the river are said to be open no large rivers to obstruct the march & more facility to get at their Inland Towns-from the accounts given me of the country (in which I flatter myself you will be so good as to set me right) it appears that From Fort Pitt down the River to the Mouth of 200 Miles Muskingum is J To Wells Town is 60 do From thence to Wakatamicke 20 From the Muskingham by Land to the Lower Shawanese 70 Town upon the Sciota and

From the Mouth of Muskingham to the Mouth of Sciota by Water From the mouth of Sciota by Water to the Lower Shawanese Town By Land From Fort Pitt to the Lower Shawanese Town

-200 j120 230

LIST OF DELAWARE & SHAWANESE TOWNS OVER THE OHIO.

Kiskuskus Shanings Pematiming Salt lick Maliouing Cayahagu Tuscarowas Mohikon John Mingoes Town Old Hunting Bullett Town Waukatawnicha Shawanese Salt Town Lower Shawanes

-N. I

W. from Fort Pitt

W. Upon th I of Mu S. W. J Lake S. W. Upon Sciota;e Town J

e -Branches skingham



Page 261


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE.

261

In all sixteen Towns Besides those upon Lake Erie The general has acquainted me that you would procure a Body of Indians to join me, & it is upon that I must chiefly depend for guides,or pilots and as I am not sufficiently acquainted with the manner of managing them, I beg you will appoint to command them a person who can take the care upon himself; and as it is very difficult to transport Provisions so far by Land, to let me know whether they will be satisfied at the rate of the common allowance of a ration per,day, or if they must have more-and if they will expect Presents from me, and what they should be, or only from you at their Return & if they can man their own Batts, to fit their own Boxes, that I may be prepared accordingly, and avoid giving them any cause of complaint. To prevent accident you will no doubt fix upon some Badge to be worn by our friend Indians easy to be distinguished in the woods and which the Enemy cannot imitate. In 1758 we gave the Cherokees a yellow piece of stuff to be about their heads. The end flying loose behind them. I shall inform you when we shall be ready to march but it will require at least five weeks from this day before Provincial Troops can,quit the settlement. I have the honor to be &c (no signature) Copy of a Letter from Colonel Bouquet to Sir William Johnson Baronet 31st May 1764. 1Entered I [A 8, p 405] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. PHILADELPHIA 7th June 1764. SIR Your Excellency has no doubt been informed that the Lords of the Treasury have entered into a new contract to furnish the Troops in America. Mr. D Franks Englis and Barcklay are the Agents here for the new Contractors, the two last are absent and Mr. Plumstead is no longer -continued. By the Heads of that Contract it appears that they are only to deliver the Provisions at certain places as Philadelphia for this Depart.S ment and on account of the carriage we are obliged to purchase all -our Provisions on the Frontiers We are altogether out of the Limits of the said Contract and General Monckton's contract being I conceive superseded, It becomes necessary that you fix in what manner Pro

Page 262


262

BOUQUET PAPERS.

visions are to be purchased & Issued, whether by the Contractor's Agents or Mr. Leake. Likewise in what manner carriages are to be provided and paid, and as you desired to be informed from what authority the former Agents have done it, I enclose copy of a Paragraph from their Principals to them, which refers to orders of the Lords of the Treasury to Sir Jeffery Amherst, who has always employed the said Agents since in providing & paying for carriages in this Department. It appears also from original contracts before me that they had General Monckton's orders in 1760 to contract for and pay the Carriages of that Campaign. But as the Commissariat is not absolutely fixed that article will I suppose be allowed higher or lower (not exceeding 5 per cent) according to circumstances. On the 4th Inst I had a meeting with the Governor & Commissioners in which was settled everything concerning the Troops. They are to raise 300 men for the immediate defence of their Frontier which I declined victualling as they were not voted for the King's use. They are to garrison Fort Augusta & to give me 950 men Including a Troop of 50 Light Horse equipped by them. They have at my recommendation agreed to send to Great Britain for 50 couples of blood hounds to be employed with the Rangers on Horse back against Indian scalping parties which will I hope deter more effectually the Savages from that sort of war than our Troops can possibly do. The cloathing will be ready and the money struck with the greatest expedition and on my side no time will be lost. Thursday 7th at one o'clock. Since writing the above I received your Letter of the 5th which I cannot answer by this Post I hope to send you in time for the Packet the Returns & Explanations required by the Secretary at War. In the meantime I shall mention that the Battn is paid upon the New Establishment from the 25th Decr 1763. The supernumerary men are paid as such by your particular warrant. The Reduced Officers are upon the Half Pay from the 25h August 1763, and the difference to full pay has been paid by!warrant to such as have continued in the Service of which there are none remaining except Lieut McDougle & Sir Jehu Hay both at the Detroit from whence I expect they will soon join us with their men and enable me to re-establish order in the Battn which is to me absolutely impossible in our actual state of dispersion. You approve of recalling our deserters but dont authorize me to take a step of that consequence.



Page 263


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO WILLIAM RUTHERFORD.

263

Haverstock's Accounts will be settled & paid as shall appear just. Hick's cannot be paid (tried) for want of a sufficient number of officers at Fort Pitt till I get there. If I could not well do without him for a guide would you grant him his life on that account only. Major Munstead does not propose to Join for several months, I think he should at this time, as I cannot give a sufficient attention to the Battn I beg Lieut Hutchins & Prevost may be ordered to Join at Fort Loudoun. H. B. A packet from Fort Pitt, quiet there on the 25h May, more scalping on the frontier particularly at Bedford Ligonier, I wish Capt Ourry could return soon having nothing here. Copy of a Letter to Genl. Gage the 7h June 1764 (entered) [A 8, p 415] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO WILLIAM RUTHERFORD PHILADELPHA 5th July 1764 Colonel Bouquet To William Rutherford Esq' SIR I was favoured yesterday with your Letter of the 27th June, and am glad to hear of the favourable Disposition of your frontier people to assist in putting a speedy end to the War, which I can see no other way to effect, but by attacking the Savages in their own Towns; I am sorry that it is not in my Power to obtain for those who would join me as voluntiers, the usual Pay given by your government to those who serve in the Militia, as the Governor and Council have already acquainted me that it was not possible, being contrary to Law; however People who have their whole at Stake, should not on account of a Triffling Pay, neglect the only opportunity they will ever have to be revenged of their Barbarous enemies, and by chastising them make them feel the hardships of a war which alone can make them more careful in observing their Treaties; The heavy Expense attending this Expedition for the Crown, and the Province of Pensylvania doth not leave room to expect that another will be set on Foot should this miscarry, and the war may then last, till the Savages are tired of it; but with the chearfull assistance of three or four Hundred good woodsmen, I think we might flatter ourselves to burn every Town about the Ohio. This Government is going to issue a Proclamation offering a consid

Page 264


264

BOUQUET PAPERS.

erable Reward for Scalps which no doubt will be a great inducement to voluntiers to join us this way and the good People of 'your Frontiers have always exerted themselves with so much spirit and often with success against the Savages, will not I hope be backward on so favourable an opportunity. I enclose Letters from Colonel Stephens and Colonel Lewis which I beg you would enclose to them, Colonel Cresap and Major Field have already offered to join me with voluntiers and with your assistance and that of all well wishers to the cause I flatter myself that we shall succeed in prevailing upon a sufficient number to give in their names as it is absolutely necessary that I should know their numbers to prepare in time everything for them. HENRY BOUQUET Colonel Bouquet to William Rutherford Esq. Dated Philadelphia 5th July 1764. [A 20, p 263] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO COL. STEPHEN. PHILADELPHIA Colonel Bouquet 5th July 1764. to Colonel Stephen. SIR Governor Fanquier having been pleased to acquaint me that you would assist me in the Expedition intended against the Indian Towns upon the Ohio, as far as your orders and the Law would permit. I beg leave to request that you would give Encouragement to good woodsmen on your Frontiers to Join as Voluntiers the Troops under my command; it is not in my Power to give them any pay, and I can only supply them with Provisions and Ammunition during the campaign. It would be necessary that I could be informed as early as possible of the number I could depend upon in order to lodge Provisions and Ammunition at Fort Cumberland for them, that they may Join us at Fort Pitt by Braddock's Road, which will be the shortest way, and as I would not occasion them any unnecessary fatigue, they might Join me at Fort Pitt, about the 25th September next, when I shall be ready to cross the River and march to the Enemy. We have the same Regular Troops we had last year, and one thousand men from this Province. They grant besides a considerable Reward for Scalps, which no doubt will be a strong inducement to several woodsmen and hunters, to come with us.,But I have so great an opinion of



Page 265


LIEUT. DEDERICK BREHM TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

265

the courage and Experience of the Inhabitants of your Frontiers, that I would think myself certain of success could I be Joined by three or four hundred of them under proper officers of their own choice. The fate of this war must depend in a great measure upon the success of this Campaign, as from the difficulty of obtaining hereafter Provincial Troops and the heavy Expense accruing to the Crown, it is easy to foresee that this will be the last Expedition this way. Therefore it is an opportunity not to be neglected by our Frontier People who are so much exposed to the Depredations of the Savages. I shall be particularly obliged to you for your good offices and interest on this important occasion. Sent a duplicate of the above letter to Colonel Lewis. HENRY BOUQUET Endorsed: Colonel Bouquet to Colonel Stephen Dated Philadelphia 5th July 1764. [A 20, p 267] LIEUT. DEDERICK BREHM TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. Sm The answer you was pleased to favour me with from Carlisle the 2nd May I received the 28th last month. It is not a disatisfaction in the Army that has occasioned me to trouble you so often, in begging your consent to leave the Regiment upon full pay; but the confidence I took, in the Readiness I had the pleasure of hearing, you allways have expressed to serve an officer under your command, neither are the reasons I have given to you, any proceedings out of an imaginary Injustice done me in the service (as I am very well convinced that I have had all share of preferment due me) but only such as a person of my age without either Interest and money ought to consider, and if you would be pleased to grant me my request, all and entirely in your power every officer Junior to me would be favoured by it, in getting a step by it, and the Reduction of the Army has put many better officers than me upon Ensign's half pay, who would very gladly get an opportunity of getting into the Army again; I am very well persuaded that me leaving the Army will be no detriment to the Service, as little as the advantage would be to the Publique for me to remain in it: because the station I am in is rather mechanically than otherwise, and therefore the service can only loose, by a Person who directs machines to make the motion they per34



Page 266


266

BOUQUET PAPERS.

form. I must begg once more as a particular favour, having no other interest to depend upon than yours, to get out of the Regiment upon full pay, and although I should leave the Regiment, my gratitude will allways put me in mind how much I'll be indebted in acknowledging myself, with the greatest respect Sir DETROIT Your most obedt hmble Servt July 13th 1764 D. BREHM To Col. Henry Bouquet. Endorsed: Lt. Brehm 18th July 1764. Recd 5 Sep. [A 20, p 289] LIEUT. GEO. MC DOUGALL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DE TROIT July 14th 1764 DEAR SIR The reason of my not wrighting you for some time past, I was sent to Niagara on business for this garrison and some of my own, Inclosed is two Returns of the Detachment here one dated May 11th and another July 14th mentioning all the casualties from 11th May, after my Return from Niagara I received a letter from Captain Barnsley by your order, desiring that I would bring all the cloathing with me that was at De Troit & Niagara, I examined the cloathing that was at Niagara, and found a hundred and Twenty hats, twelve coats, and fifty pairs of breeches that was good for anything, the rest being all rotten & good for nothing; Those that was good I brought along with me, and have served them out to the men that was prisoners, as they stood most in need of them, which I hope you will approve of, and if we should stay any time here, I believe I shall be obliged to buy coats for the men, they having almost none that can be called a coat, by reason of the cloathing they have had two years ago being much damaged before they got there, they want for nothing else, I having brought everything they wanted from Niagara, except the cloathing due to them by the King, for all the fatigue they have had the men is very healthy, and desires nothing more than to Join you. I shall obey the orders received from Captain Barnsley as to the tents thats left at Niagara, and the supernumerary arms. By the consent of Colonel Gladwin & Lieut Brehm, I have agreed to take a man in the place' of Hartman; Colonel Gladwin has given Hartman liberty to go and Join you to get his discharge if you approve of it, the man is engaged for



Page 267


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO JOHN HARRIS.

267

life. Hartman says you promised him his discharge, which was part the reason that I consented to take the other in his place. Believe me Sir To be with the greatest respect Your much obliged Humble Servant To Colonel Bouquet GEORGE McDOUGAL Endorsed: Letter from Lient McDougal Dated July 14th 1764 Received the 5th September [A 20, p 294] LIEUT. GEO. MCDOUGALL TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. DETROIT 18h July 1764. DEAR SIR The Fourteenth Inst. I wrote to you by Mr Boyle & Inclosed two Returns of the Royal Americans thats here, and at the same time acquainted you that I had changed a man in place of Hartman if agreeable to you give him his discharge. Colonel Gladwin has given him a Furlough to Join you to get it if you think proper. We have nothing new here, only all the Savages in this Part begs earnestly for Peace, we have had some Delaware and Shawanese here who also begs for peace but Colonel Gladwin told them that we had nothing to say to them, if they wanted Peace they must go to Fort Pitt or Sir William and ask it there, as they did not belong to his Department, No news as yet of the Army. From Sir Your very much obliged Humble Servant GEORGE MCDOUGALL Endorsed: Letter from Lieut-McDougall 18h July 1764. Received 24h Sept. by Hartman. [A 20, p 298] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO JOHN HARRIS. PHILADELPHIA SIR 19th July 1764 I received your Letter of the 15th and am sorry that it is not in my power to employ your brother as a Gun Smith with the Army, upon his refusing it last year, Captain Hay tooke Butler's son, who has remained in pay ever since at Fort Pitt, and as he has done his duty, cannot with justice be turned out, and only one can be employed.

N, ' - * (



Page 268


268

BOUQUET PAPERS.

After all the noise and bustle of your young men upon the Frontiers, everybody expected that they would have offered their services as Soldiers or Volunteers, for the defence of their Country, as being, the fittest men for an Expedition against Indians, and as the best way to wipe off Reproaches cast upon them for the Violences committed, and offered to defenceless Indians. Instead of such Honourable conduct, I see by your Letter that they go as Pack Horse Drivers and waggoners, employs for which a coward is as fit as a brave man: Will not People say that they have found it easier to kill Indians in a goal, than to fight them fairly in the woods? I am the more concerned for that mean spirited behaviour, as the ministry at home appear greatly incensed at their past proceedings, and I make no doubt when His Majesty is informed what little assistance I have had from the Frontier Inhabitants, and that hardly any men of Property and Character have joined the Expedition, that they will hereafter be left to fight their own Battles themselves, as while they are exempted to pay their Proportion of Taxes; the Government had a more particular right to depend upon their Personal Services, and that they would have made some amends for the Large Sums of Money laid out chiefly for their Protection. They have called very loudly also, for a Reward for Scalps, tho' I dont hear that any of them stirrs to obtain it. The Virginians who are not so nearly concerned in this war, having a brave Militia to cover their Frontiers, have offered me a number of Volunteers to serve on the Expedition without Pay, and not a single man of this Province has hitherto offered himself. They will be' judged by their Actions, and not by their words, and that Judgment will not be as much to their credit as I could wish. TFor my own part I am so much disgusted at the Backwardness of the Frontier People in assisting us in taking Revenge of the Savages who murder them daily with Impunity, that I hope this will be the last time I shall venture my Reputation and Life for their sake. I am very sorry to be obliged to alter the High Opinion I had of them, and that they give so just a cause for censure, as it must affect any Person of Honor and Integrity who has Interest among them. I thought proper to acquaint you with my own Sentiments. I am Sir Your most Humble Servt. -Mr. John Harris HENRY BOUQUET [A 20, p 299]



Page 269


GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

269

JAMES DOW TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. MY DEAR COLLONEL I have just time to inform you that Sir William Johnson has made peace with those rascalls at last, which I am sorry for, yett from a Letter from the Delawares, and Shawaness they seem rather to be impudent and I wish Collonel Bradstreet could come with them, and I should be extremely happy to meet with you on the other syde of them. They have delyvered up a good many Prisoners, and to appearances seem to be sensible of the wrong they have done. We march this day to Fort Schl6sser, and to morrow imbark in the new constructed Boats, which I have no great opinion of. They have fifteen Barrels of Provision, besides all the Stores: they are very slight and if we have any storms on the Lake, they must go to the Dyvel for they have such a large Keel, it will be impossible to run them ashore; I shall be sure to let you know from time to time of our proceedings and nothing will do me more pleasure than to hear from you. The Indians consume here every day near Three Thousand Rations, one day they had four. If Ratzer or Phister does not send you a Plan of the Tracts they are much to blame. I am with great Respect My dear Collonel Your very much obliged Your most obedient & very Humble Servant JAMES Dow Niagara The Blessed 6th August 1764 I fancy Collonel Bradstreet has wrote you, as he made me write your name to him. [A 20, p 330.] GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK August 18th 1764 SIR I have received your Letter of the 10th Inst from Carlisle enclosing Coppys of Colonel Lewis's and Mr. Rutherford's Letters to you, with a copy of Lieut Governor Fanquier's Letter to Mr Rutherford. The Provincial Troops, by Desertion chiefly, and other accidents, decrease always most surprisingly. It is to be hoped that the efforts you make to recruit them, will meet with success.



Page 270


270

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Colonel Stephen's conduct is indeed highly blamable as set forth in Mr Rutherford's Letter and you have certainly done right in acquainting Mr Fanquier of his behaviour nor can I do less than mention it to him when I see he has vested a man with power who makes use of it to obstruct the Publick Service. Colonel Lewis has a very good character and I wish he could prevail upon his people to take the Route you proposed to him. I am sensible that you should have had Full Powers given you in respect of Genl Court's Martial, without the Restriction mentioned in your Warrant, But I have given them you in as ample a manner as I am empowered to do. Most of the Commanders of Corps have had warrants transmitted to. them from Home I conclude you had likewise & perhaps upon your looking over that Warrant, you may find you are vested with more power than you could be devolved on you from me. The Congress at Niagara is over. I have very nearly 1,600 Indians fit to bear arms assembled & the fear of the mischief such a numerous Band was capable of doing, if ill inclined, detained Colonel Bradstreet too long upon the Carrying Place. The Cherussies too did not chuse to keep the peace they made in the Spring, and therefore did not appear at the Congress till they were threatened with a visit. They at length came in with their Familys & Sr W'" Johnson says, all their Prisoners except four who were too weak to march & were to be sent to Oswego. They have now made a second Peace & brought in the Delawares to make their Peace likewise who were drove from the Susquehannah in the Spring and have been protected by the Cherussies. The Delawares are to deliver up their King as he is called & another Chief except the Hurons some Messisagas and some Chippawas none of the Tribes sent their Deputys who have bore arms against us. But during the Congress the Wyandots, Ottawas and Pontewatamies sent in their Prisoners to the Detroit, of which no notice was sent to Col Bradstreet and he tells me preventing his attacking them. It remains with him to make a formal peace with those Nations, and he has orders unless he brings them to peace which to appearance shall be safe & lasting to fall on them. Your acquaintances the Shawanese and Delawares sent him, I understand, a Challenge. He is ordered to march and attack those 'nations on the Scioto at the Time appointed by you And I trust betwixt you that these Barbarians will at length pay dearly for their Massacres. Colonel Bradstreet sett out for Detroit on the 6h Inst accompanied by about 500 Indians. I have again mentioned to Sr Wm Johnson the



Page 271


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST.

271

necessity of sending a Body of Savages to Join you. The Cherokees have sent but a few Partys against the Shawanese. They might perhaps be made more usefull but they are on the eve of a war with the Creeks. Lieut Govr Bull is made acquainted with the supplys, to be furnished by the French in the Autumn by the way of the Ohio, according to the Intelligence given by Hicks and he is desired to get the Cherokees to intercept them. I am with great Regard Sir Your most obedt humble Servant THOS. GAGE Colonel Bouquet General Gage Angst 18th 1764 Received the 25th [Entered.] [A 8, p 458] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. JEFFERY AMHERST. CAMP NEAR FORT LOUDOUN SIR 27th Aug" 1764 I received this moment advice from Col. Bradstreet, of his having granted peace to all the Indians living between Lake Erie and the Ohio. The terms he gives them are such as fill me with Astonishment. After the massacre of our officers and Garrisons, and of our Traders & Inhabitants, in time of a profound Peace; after the Immense Expence of the Crown, and some of the Provinces to punish those infamous murderers, not the least satisfaction is obtained. Had Col. Bradstreet been so well informed as I am, of the horrid Perfidies of the Delaware and Shawanese, whose Parties as late as the 22d Instant, killed six men, and have taken four Prisoners on this Frontier (not to recal the shoking and recent murder of the school master and children) he never could have compromised the Honor of the nation by such disgracefull conditions: and that at a time when two armies after long strugles, are in full motion to penetrate into the Heart of the Enemies Country. Permit me likewise humbly to represent to your Excellency, that I have not deserved the Affront laid upon me by this Treaty of Peace concluded by a youngei' officer, in the Department where you have done me the Honor to appoint me to command, without refering the Deputys, of the Savages to me at Fort Pitt, but telling them that he shall send and prevent my proceedings against them.



Page 272


272

BOUQUET PAPERS.

I can therefore take no notice of his Peace but proceed forthwith to the Ohio, where I shall wait till I receive your orders how to act afterwards. Col. Reid is safely arrived at Ligonier & will be tomorrow with his convoy at Pittsbourgh: He writes me that every Body with him, expresses the greatest indignation at the Terms granted by Mr. Bradstreet and the few officers here who are acquainted with it from Fort Pitt are of the same opinion: & indeed when I compare them with your orders to me, & the few Hints I took the Liberty, upon a full knowledge of these Savages, to lay before you last year, and which you was pleased to approve of, I can not reconcile myself to the thought of seeing those Vilains go unpunished. H.B. [A 4, p 67] __ GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. BENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK Sept. 2nd 1764. SIR I was this day favoured with your Letter of the 27th of August, inclosing Dispatches from Colonel Bradstreet, which, to my great astonishment, contained Articles of a Peace which he has taken upon himself to conclude, with the Shawanese and Delawares, a Peace that obtains not the least satisfaction for all the Crueltys those Barbarians have been guilty of, that adds dishonor to our arms amongst the Indians and can serve no purpose, but be the basis of future massacres. I send you my answer open to Colonel Bradstreet which you will please to seal, and contrive every means to get it to his Hands, I send a Duplicate by the way of Niagara. This will show you my opinion of the Peace, without saying more, about what stings me to the quick. You do well to proceed in your operations I annull and disavow the Peace, attack and use every means to extripate the Shawanese and Delawares, and listen to no Terms of Peace, till they deliver the Promoters of the War into your hands to be put to death, and send their Deputys to Sir William Johnson to sue for Peace. You may write what shall occur to you as proper to be told Colonel Bradstreet, concerning the mutual assistance you can give each other. I am with great Regard Sir Your most obedient humble Servant THos. GAGE. Colonel Bouquet



Page 273


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE.

273

P. S. You will have observed that Colonel Bradstreet has given the Savages twenty five days to bring all their Prisoners to Sandusky so I conclude from thence, that He may be found there. His letter is dated the 14th of August. T. G. Letter from General Gage to Colonel Bouquet dated at New York the 2nd September 1764, received the 10th, answered the 12th. [enteredJ [A 8, p 463] [entered COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. CAMP AT FORT BEDFORD SIR 5th Sept 1764 I had this day the Honor of your Excellency's letter of the 27th of August, with its Inclosures; as I can not suppose that Col. Bradstreet had received your last orders when he granted Peace to the Delaware & Shawnese, I have sent him by Two Traders well acquainted with the country, the Paragraph you have been pleased to inclose to me, and desired he would if possible postpone the final conclusion of the Treaty till I could transmit him your Intentions. In the mean time some Parties of Savages continue to shew themselves on the Frontiers and on the 27th Ulto Two were killed and scalped beyond Fort Cumberland by the Militia of Virginia, and a woman they had made Prisoner released; and I am this moment informed that three Indians with Bows & Arrows have attempted to take one of our Drivers at the Grass Guard. I have been here since the first Instant, and our Waggons which set off the 31st from Fort Loudoun, are not arrived, I must leave them to follow with an escort, and proceed with the Horses to Fort Pitt, repairing the Road for them. The Desertion continues amongst the Provincials, with the additional loss of Horses and Arms, which they carry off; I shall never more depend upon new raised Troops. By Col. Lewis Letter a good Reinforcement of Volunteers from Virginia, will at Fort Cumberland by the 10th Inst, but he could not fix the number. Lieut Dow acquaints me from Niagara by a letter of the 6th of August, that Sir William - Johnson could not send me any Indians, I wish he had not promised them. The Escort of the. first Convoy returned yesterday. The soldier Sutherland of the 42nd Regiment tried for Desertion at the last Court 35



Page 274


274

BOUQUET PAPERS.

Martial, and who received a Corporal punishment is again deserted, which evinces the hard necessity of making at last a capital example. The two Deserters sentenced to suffer Death, will be carried to Fort Pitt, where their fate will be determined as, the good of the service shall absolutely require. H. B. [A 7, p 73] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO COL. JOHN BRADSTREET. CAMP AT LIGONIER To Col Bradstreet 12th Sepr 1764 SIR, As in the number of Prisoners to be delivered to you by the Shawnese and Delawares at Sandusky several of them may be natives of Pennsylvania. I send Mr McKee Assistant D. Agent for Indian affairs to see them and execute any orders you may be pleased to give him concerning them and after that Business is over I beg you would send him back to me as he is well acquainted with the Shawnese Language and will be useful to me in any future Business I may have with that Nation. H. B. [A 7, p 79] GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK Sept 15th 1764. SIR I was this day favoured with your Letter of the 5th Inst by which I find those villains who have amused Col. Bradstreet with overtures of Peace on the side of Lake Erie, are still committing murders on our Frontiers with their usual cruelty. The whole Transaction betwixt them & Colonel Bradstreet seems only intended to deceive him. & ward off the Blow which threatened them. They were certainly never deputed by the natives, they pretended to represent, or they would have been better provided with Belts, and of course gone to Niagara to the General Congress. If they detain the people Colonel Bradstreet has sent amongst them, it will not surprise me. The Facility they met with on being granted a Peace on the first asking for it, will make them despise us, and encourage them to show us every kind of Contempt and Insult. The only thing to be guarded against is, that we shall not be accused of the Infraction of the Peace, if they should, contrary to our Expectation,



Page 275


COL. JOHN REID TO COL. HENRY BOIUQUET.

275

so far comply with their engagement with Colonel Bradstreet as to deliver up their Prisoners at Sandusky. They have broke it themselves by the massacres they have committed and still continue to commit since they began to treat & this we must acquaint every Nation of in our Notification. This Sir Wm Johnson will do to all the Nations near him, and you will take every measure in your power that shall be proper to let all the Nations know the Infidelity of the Shawanese and Delawares, and that we will not be deceived by such Tricks which is the Reason of our proceeding against them till they make us proper satisfaction. I send you two Letters for Colonel Bradstreet by this opportunity which you will endeavour to get to Him by different Routes, wherein I make mention of the above Precaution to Him, in respect to the other Nations. I have received Letters from Sr Wm Johnson of the 1st & 11th Septr in which He tells me that He had sent a Party of Mohawks to be Joined by others from Susquehanna to meet you at Fort Pitt & hopes they will meet you in sufficient Time. You know my sentiments on our operations too well for me to add any thing, but that I wish for peace, and such satisfaction given us as will ensure its duration. And I rest assured that you will do -every thing that will contribute to this end as far as your Force and Circumstances will permit you, Its highly necessary that Colonel Bradstreet should second you and I trust my letters will get to him in Time to do it effectually. I am with great regard Sir Your most obedt. humble Servant THOS. GAGE Colonel Bouquet. Genl Gage 15th Sept 1764 Received at Fort Pitt the 26h Answered that day.entered [A 8, p 465] COL. JOHN REID TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. SIR Captain Williams is just arrived and is now marking out the ground for the Encampment, we are collecting all the Tents which shall be sent out immediately. We tryed every method we could think of to decoy the Indians into the Fort, but no more than two have as yet ventured, notwithstanding of what I mentioned, to you yesterday You will be surprised when I tell you that one of them is a Brother of Kick's, a most notorious offender, from whom you may expect every



Page 276


276

BOUQUET PAPERS.

piece of intelligence you would wish to learn; The other is called Capt. Pipe, a Delaware Chief and a man of great consequence among them. I had determined to receive you with the Garrison under Arms, and a Round of the Artillery. Seven Guns are ready loaded for that purpose, if you think these are not a sufficient number, please to let me know. Bradstreet has certainly not concluded a Peace with the Delawares & Shawanese, but marched to Detroit, of which more at meeting. I am with Respect and great Esteem Sir Your most obedient and most Humble Servant 9 o'clock JOHN REID Endorsed: Letter from Col. Reid 18th September 1764 On His Majesty's Service To Colonel Bouquet. Commanding His Majesty's Forces In the Southern Department. [A 20, p 437] GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK Octr 1st 1764. SIR I have Received your Letter of the 16th Sept., inclosing a Copy of Lt. Col. Reid's Letter to you, of the same date. The Vilainies of those perfidious Savages are endless. The other Indians are sensible of their Perfidy, and particularly the Hurons of Detroit observed to Sir Wm Johnson the necessity of punishing them. I believe the Six Nations are Jealous of the power of the Shawanese and Delawares who have lately set them at defiance. They are all of opinion that those Indians at Presqu' Isle had no authority to make Peace. Tho' you should not be able to get my Letters to Col. Bradstreet I am to hope that the Duplicates sent by Oswego will get to him. My first Letter which you mention not to be able to forward was at Oswego the 8th of Sept and immediately forwarded to Niagara. I am with great Regard Sir Your most obedt. Hum. Servant Colonel Bouquet THOS. GAGE General Gage Oct 1st 1764 Received the 23d Nov r [entered.1 [A 8, p 472]



Page 277


GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

277

GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK Octr. 15th 1764. "SIR Your Letter of the 26th Inst came to my hands on the 12th Inst, -and I received great satisfaction in hearing that you had collected all your Force & Provisions at Fort Pitt without any Disappointment. The Delaware Indians with whom you had the Conference, were no doubt sent to watch your motions, and those Colonel Bradstreet treated with at Presqu' Isle were so surely detached on the same errand, and no other. Nothing can be better than the manner in which you have dealt with them, and the message you sent to their Nations, and I think unless they have seized Colonel Bradstreet's Partys, which I always suspected I would that you must have heard from Him very soon, after the date of your Letter He was to Leave the Detroit on the 14th ult. and it was imagined would reach Sandusky about the 17th where he expected to meet the Shawanese" and Delawares with their Prisoners. He had made Peace with all the Ottawas &c round the Detroit, sent a Detachment to Missilimakinac and sent Capt Morris of the 17th Regt to the Illinois. This gentleman passed the Miami in no small danger of his Life, Pondiac protected him, who he represents as absolute, and had collected the Twightwees and all the Indians of the Ouabache, but on finding Peace was made they all dispersed and Pondiac was to meet Colonel Bradstreet at Sandusky. If your Expresses went to that Place its a little odd that they saw nothing of - any Indians, as they were to have been there with their Prisoners on the 8th of September, and is a further suspicion of their designs to deceive us; without any management I imagined they might have sent in a few by degrees, to keep us in hopes of having the remainder, till the season for action was over, and then insult us. I suppose that Col. Bradstreet has kept Hostages. It gives me great pleasure to find you are in a position to reduce the Savages to Reason whether you receive assistance from Colonel Bradstreet or not Tho I hope he may be of stme service. If they deliver up to you the Promoters of the War, you will bring them down to Philadelphia or any other Place nearer the Frontiers where they can be safely secured till all matters are finally & securely settled with their Nations. Unless you see proper and very good reasons why some of them should suffer immediately; and in that case a Platform must be ordered to shoot them without any ceremony; you give very good reasons for marching towards their nations, but any -orders which I can now send must come too late.



Page 278


278

BOUQUET PAPERS.

I am obliged to you for laying in Materials for Batteaux whether we have occasion for them in the Spring or not. Fort Massiac was to have been relieved by the Mississippi. Fort Vincennes was said to have been abandaned, tho' I think that has been contradicted. If we can fix our affairs well with the Savages and make a good peace we shall have frequent ocasion to go down the Ohio and we must have a free navigation of this River. Colonel Bradstreet never thought of this and this shows that business of that kind should be left with those, who have had more experience in our Indian Affairs. I observe in a Philadelphia Paper which was brought with your last Dispatches that those Vilains had done recent mischief on the borders of Virginia. I wish the evidence against Hicks was a little more plain, there is nothing to prove him a spy but his own confession, extorted from him by Threats of Death. I can't therefore confirm the Sentence. Both He and his Brother have been in arms, and you will endeavour to get what proof you qan of this that they may be tried as Traitors to their Country. But these Trials must be in the country below by the Civil Magistrates to whom they should be given up. The Military may hang a Spy in time of war but the Rebels in Arms are tried by the Civil Courts at least I saw this practiced in Scotland both by General Hawley & the Duke of Cumberland. Mr. Peine should be applied to for to order the Atty Genl to prosecute all those vilains against whom any Proof can be brought. I retain you both your Court Martials which either of your Judge Advocates may transmit to Mr. Gould Deputy Judge Advocate General in England as always practiced. You may respite the Execution of Joseph Thomas if you find Room for Mercy, and I will afterwards send you a Pardon upon your informing me of it. I am with great regard Sir Your most obedt. humble Servant THOS. GAGE General Gage Oct 15th 1764 Received the 4th Ncvr Answered 16th [entered.] [A 8, p 475] GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK October 21st 1764. SIR I have received your favor of the 2nd Inst with the speech of the



Page 279


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEI. THOMAS' GAGE.

279

Onondaga and Oneida Indians inclosed, and your answer thereto which was.as well as could be on the Occasion. These.Indians were no doubt employed by Colonel Bradstreet to go amongst the Shawanese and Delawares, and were present at the meeting at Presqu Isle and knew nothing of the murders that were commintted so long afterwards, till you informed them of it. We hear & it seems to come from authority, that Colonel Bradstreet is returned to Niagara. If so you will be left without his support, but of this you will be informed. I believe it will be too late to send you any further orders & Instructions, but if this reaches you Time enough as I see the Six Nations are so earnestly desirous of a Peace that you can Judge the Shawanese &c have recalled their Parties & really seem sincere, and beg to have peace, you will in that case relax of your Demands upon them for satisfaction, and get as good terms as you can keeping up the authority you have always done which is proper upon such occasions with all Indians. But they must go and finish their Peace properly with r8 W" Johnson. Colonel Bradstreet was to have been at Sandusky on the 17th Inst. He must have made haste to get in all his Prisoners if they. brought any which I much doubt & always did, if any Judgement could be formed from their action. You will have made your Demands probably from some of their chiefs who have come to you to treat & will have seen what effect they have upon them. Therefore if you find them resolute to continue the War rather than comply, you will then as I said before relax your Intreaty of some Friendly Indians, and get us as good a Peace as you can, if you are assured of their sincerity & real desire of peace. I am with great regard Sir Your most obedt humble servt Cdl. Bouquet THOS. GAGE General Gage 21st October 1764 Received at the Fort of Maskingham the 4th Novr Answered the 15th [entered] [A 8, p 479] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. CAMP AT THE FORKS OF MUSKINGHAM SI. 15th Nov'. 1764. I had the honor to write to your Excellency the 21st Octr. we arrived



Page 280


280

BOUQUET PAPERS.

at this Camp the 25th being in the center of the Delaware Towns, and near Wakatamike the most considerable of the Shawanese Settlements. The 4th Instant I received your Letters of the 15th & 21st of October with their Inclosures, the last came to my hands very timely, I had managed matters with the Savages in such a manner as to remain Master of ye conditions I had to prescribe to them, by insisting on their delivering first all their prisoners before I would explain myself, but at the same time I was sensible of the impossibility of obtaining the delivery of the Authors of the War to be put to death, unless I had seized upon them myself, which would have been- no satisfaction, & that Violence would have put it out of my Power to bring afterwards the Savages to submit to any terms; they would have dispersed themselves and necessity would have forced them to fall upon our Frontiers, which must have remained exposed to their depredations at least for another year, as I had neither Troops nor Provisions to take Post in their country, the surest method to reduce them. But by means of the Latitude you have been pleased to give me, I have now the satisfaction to inform you that the Delawares, the Shawanese, the Mingoes, & some broken Tribes of Mohikons & Wyandots are intirely reduced and have submitted on the following terms. 1st, To deliver all their Prisoners without exception. 2nd, To give fourteen Hostages to remain in our hands as a security that the first article -shall be fully executed & that they shall commit no Hostilities against the Persons or Property of His Majesty's Subjects. 3rd To send Deputies from each nation properly authorized to- make peace with Sr Wm Johnson; engaging to satify and execute punctually all the conditions to be stipulated in that Treaty. In consequence the Mingoes and Delawares have already delivered all their prisoners & even their own children born from white women as I have insisted upon it, which considering their attachment to their children is a convidicing Proof of their Sincerity & their Humiliation. The Shawanese have been very obstinate and have given me a good deal of Trouble, they refused to submit on the above conditions, / and were particularly averse to the giving of Hostages, I have seen the moment when I would have been obliged to come to extremities with them; But being certain that if they were driven to despair, they would have massacred 150 Prisoners then in their hands, I determined to make a last effort wb the Chiefs of their Warriors, who have the principal authority amongst them and in a private conference I convinced them of their folly in exposing themselves to certain destruction



Page 281


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE.

281

by their obstinacy & they consented at last to stoop to the same Terms as the other nation. They have delivered about 40 Prisoners & have given me six of their Principals as Hostages & have sent Parties to their Towns to assist in collecting & bringing to Fort Pitt, the remainder of their captives, as soon as they are all given up they will send Deputies to Sir William Johnson. The French Traders have often supplied them with Ammunition, from the Ohio and some from the Miamis-These last must come from the Detroit-The anexed Report made by Mr. Smallman will inform you of the Particulars. The number of Prisoners already delivered exceeds Two hundred & I expect near one hundred more from the Shawanese, which exceeds greatly my expectation; several of them have remained so many years with them that they are become Savages & they are obliged to tie them to bring them to us. From their present humble dispositions I believe they sincerely incline for peace & that they will not easily break it provided they can be kept under proper management. That no Trader be permitted to go to their Towns to cheat them & indispose them against us. That the French are entirely excluded from coming amongst them, which cannot be effected till we have possession of the Forts Chartiers and Massiac, & strong garrison to keep Batteaux cruising upon the Mississippi & Ohio & interrupt any illicit trade. That the Mingoes be obliged to quit this Country and Join the Six Nations to whom they belong as they are the most corrupted of all the Indians, live altogether by their Robberies & are always endeavouring to embroil matters to have a better opportunity to plunder Friends & Foes, They have almost ruined us by the vast number of Horses they have stolin from us. The 28h of Octr last Captain Artel a Canadian Joined me with a Party of 20 Cocknawagas Indians sent by Col. Bradstreet from Sandusky 4th a letter from him dated the 17th in which he acquainted me of the necessity he was under to return to Niagara; The Savages were informed of his Retreat before me, but I was at their Towns, and they did not chuse to expose themselves to the consequences of a Rupture. Having now settled everything with the Savages I shall march the Troops back to Fort Pitt, dismiss the Provincials and Volunteers and fix the Regulars in winter Quarters agreeably to your orders. I cannot sufficiently acknowledge the great assistance I have received 36



Page 282


282

BOUQUET PAPERS.

of Col. Reid during the whole Campaign. He is an excellent officer & a man of. Business, whose advice has often been usefull to me. Major Smal who will have the Honor to deliver you this Packet, may inform your Excellency of any circumstances you will desire to know, as he has been present at the whole Transaction; I humbly beg leave to recommend him to your notice. The Virginia Volunteers have done good service and their light Dress & their activity has made impression on the Savages; as it is to Col. Lewis that I am particularly obliged for that valuable reinforcement, Permit me Sir to recommend his (son?) John Lewis who has served this Campaign as a Lieutenant for an Ensigncy in the Army, when an opportunity offers. The Public spirit exerted by his father for the success of this Expedition, intitles the son to your protection and such instances are so rare in this Country, that you will seldom be troubled with application of this kind. I shall think myself very happy, if in my conduct in the execution of your orders can obtain your approbation. H.B. P. S. The two Hicks will be delivered to Mr Penn's order, to be tried by the Civil Law; The deserter Joseph Thomas of the Pennsylvanian Regt. is reprieved till you think proper to send his Pardon. There is another Court Martial concerning an officer who before the affair had a Doubtfull Character. He remains under an arrest at Fort Pitt, and will be moved to Carlisle, till your Pleasure is known concerning his Sentence. [A 7, p 89] ORDERS BY COL. HENRY BOUQUET. By Henry Bouquet Esquire Colonel of Foot Commanding His Majesty's Forces in the Southern District of North America. Whereas a suspension of Arms has been granted to the Indian Tribes of the Mingoes, Wiandots, Delawares & Shawanese any of their people coming to our Posts are to be Treated as our friends, but as no Trade can be carried on with the said Indians till a Definite Treaty of Peace be concluded with them, and the manner of carrying on the said Trade be regulated by Authority. The officers commanding at Fort Bedford, Cumberland, Ligonier, Fort Pitt & all other Posts on the communication to the Ohio, are not to permit Liquors Dry Goods or Merchandise either going to Fort Pitt or further to pass at their respective Posts, and in case any Traders, Settlers or others should



Page 283


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. 283 contrary to this order, attempt to carry Liquors, Dry Goods or Merchandize in a clandestine manner: the Cargoes of such Delinquents are to be seized and lodged in the Kings Stores till orders can be had thereupon from the General & it is particularly forbid to any Persons at Fort Pitt to have any Dealings whatever with the Indians & to sell or give them any Ammunition Liquors or Dry Goods without orders from the commanding officer at that Post, who will give such orders in cases only where His Majestys Service shall absolutely require it. All kinds of eatables & the Stores necessary for the use of the officers & soldiers of His Majestys Troops in Garrison at those Posts are permitted to pass provided the Carriers produce to the officers commanding at such Post Permits signed by the Genl. The officers commanding in this Department or the officers commanding at Fort Pitt. This order to be made Publick at each Post for the Information of all Persons whom it may concern. Given under my hand at Head Quarters in Fort Pitt this 29th day of November 1764. HENRY BOUQUET Colonel Bouquet's orders in the Southern District 29th November 1764. [entered] [A 8, p 485] COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. FORT PITT SIR, 30th November 1764 The Army returned the 28th Instant to this Post, where I have found your Excellency's Letters of the 1st October, 9th & 11th of Nov. The Royal Americans proceeded down the communication all ye Voluntiers have followed this day wt ye first Battalion of the Pennl Regiment and the second will march to morrow likewise for Carlisle. Fort Pitt is garrisoned by Five Companies of the 42nd Regt. under the command of Capt. William Murray. Fort Ligonier, has a company of the same corps, under the command of Captain Stewart, Fort Bedford another Company commanded by Capt. William Grant. Fort Cumberland, half a company commanded by Lieut James Eddington. All the Captives of which I inclose the List, are sent to the provinces they were taken from. The Cocknewaga Indians under Capt Artells Command, are to proceed to morrow, with the Deputies of the Delawares, and Shawanese, to Sir William Johnson, The Six Hostages of the Delawares are at this Post, as to the Shawanese, we have been obliged to leave two of



Page 284


284

BOUQUET PAPERS.

theirs sick upon the road. I have sent another, with a Delaware to the Ouabache & the Miamis, to acquaint of those nations of the Peace, hnd I have allowed three to go as Deputies to Sir Williams chusing rather to seize the favourable opportunity of sending them with the Cocknewaga, and giving thereby the facility to Sir William Johnson of concluding Peace with these two Nations at the same time, than to give the Trouble of a separate Treaty by waiting for their Deputies who are to come w' the Captives, as the Red Hawk one of the Hostages was equally to the Chief of the Deputation. Besides that this Nation is so fickle and wavering that there is no Dependance upon their Promises, till they are fulfilled. I have therefore for the present no Hostages of that Nation to leave here, but they have engaged to send four immediately. For the Mingoes they have behaved as usual and after stealing upon the march seven or eight of our best Horses, they run off; that Vermin is not worth treating with them; we shall however have two Hostages of those Banditti when their Chiefs returns from the Lakes where I have sent him to give an account of the Peace. he is the only good man among them, but has little sway, I shall not have the Honor to answer your letters of the 9th & 11th Inst. which are come too late to execute the plan you proposed, had I been informed sooner of your Intentions I would have sent an officer with some Shawnese & Delawares (tho' it is rather too soon yet to trust them) to the different nations you mention; But if you permit me Sir, I shall take the Liberty to observe from my superficial knowledge of the Savages, that it is not probable such a method would have produced the desired effect, Those distant Tribes would dispise & perhaps insult a Messenger & put us under the disagreeable alternative of suffering tamely the affront or ingaging in a War with them to obtain a precarious satisfaction, Those Nations being extremely indisposed against us, owing to the perfidious Insinuations of French Emissaries and the contemptible light in which they represent us; They would not believe our offers sincere, nor think us able to enforce them. The dread of English Power is in my opinion the sole motive capable of making a solid impression in their minds, & they must be convinced by their own eyes, that it is not out of necessity but out of Regard to them, that we offer our Alliance; and I doubt whether we shall ever root out the French Interest in that Country, till we make our appearance in it with a force sufficient to make ourselves respectable, and awe both the French and the Savages. The notion of our Power well impressed, will facilitate ever after any negotiation with them; and we might then



Page 285


COL. HENRY BOUQUET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE.

285

with safety reduce our garrisons and send them Messages, and even Orders by a single Messenger, but not before. I dont expect that the Regiment ordered up the Mississippi will succeed, while there is a nation to oppose them owing to the facility and safety they will find to fire at them every day with Impunity. But if instead of the slow Progress of Ten Miles a day against a rapid stream, exposed all the Time to the embushes of those active Enemies; we had to go down the River at the rate of Fifty miles per day; They would 'hardly venture to attempt an Opposition, as none of their Parties would see the Batteaux twice and this mnight be effected from this Post, if two Regiments at least, with a Corps of Rangers and Savages were employed at once in that Expedition; and to prevent the Enemy getting Intelligence of its real destination; it would be easy to give out, that it is intended to rebuild Le Boeuf & Presqu' Isle, and even navigate a day or two up the River, letting only the Commanding officer in the secret. That embarcation would reach the Mississippi before it would be possible for any Runner to carry the news; the distance from thence to Fort Chartres might be marched or gone by water sooner than the Enemy surprised could collect a sufficient Body to resist, and that Fort once in our possession with such a Force it would be the proper time to offer our Friendship and Trade to the natives, who could no longer impute it to fear or necessity. Time, address and good usage must effect the rest, by attaching them to us, & by degrees breaking off their connections with the French, whose Illicit Trade, and Intrigues might then be more easily suppressed. Tho I think that such an expedition could hardly fail of success, I am sensible of the difficulties attending it; First we are commonly too late with our Enterprises, owing to several visible causes, but particularly to the Inconveniency of having to wait orders from home, and the necessity of depending (for want of other Troops) upon Provincials who are never ready in Time. Next we appear little disposed to launch into new Paths, untrod before, and finally views of Occonomy so necessary after this dispendious war, make us averse to new Expenses, which however are often increased by running into the other extreme; without mentioning the two first Campaigns in this Country, lost for want of an adequate force and some other Instances, we have evidently brought upon us this Indian war, by being to saving of a few Presents to the Savages, which properly distributed would certainly have prevented it. The same Principle seems to lead the Colonies, who have consumed themselves



Page 286


286

BOUQUET PAPERS.

in a feeble and useless defensive, while one half of the money they have spent, might have fitted out an Expedition, that would have cut the Evil by the Root. The Building of Batteauxs at Fort Pitt is very dear. The expense of Carriage for stores & Provisions still greater. The Troops so scattered that it is hardly possible to bring in time two Regiments together. And the Ohio being only navigable in the Spring, and a short time in the Summer, the Season for that navigation is past before we can be ready. I do not therefore imagine that the least attention can be paid for the present to this plan, & in taking the Liberty to mention it, I have no other view than to express my good wishes for the success of every Enterprise taken in hand by the Government and that I think it would be a reflection upon the dignity of the nation to defer any longer thro inability to take possession of a Country & Forts ceded to us. While I am upon this subject I must not omit to inform you that the Shawanese & Delawares who went to the Miamis were sent about the middle of September, and consequently long after they had obtained Peace at Presqu' Isle, but by what our Deputies say, it was not done by their whole nations but only by some of them more attached to the French, who have constantly been incitinig them to continue the war, and promised to supply them with Ammunition. It is not easy to prove this upon the French Commanding officers, upon the Report of Savages, but it does not appear to me in the least doubtfull, that they at least connaive at it. While they keep Possession of Louisiana, we must expect constant Bevils and endless expenses; and that they will check the Increase of our Colonies, by the frequent inroads of their Savages unless we maintain a considerable force upon the Mississippi; but this is not my business and I return to it. We have received a less Quantity of Provisions in this Department than I required at first, having countermanded Part of it on account of the delays occasioned by the Pennsylvanian Troops. The Troops have wanted for nothing, and you will observe by the returns that the Garrisons are all properly supplied. I did not think.it advisable to throw more Provisions in my Forts, at this time, as the prospect of a Peace, will soon Lower the Prices of Carriages; Therefore I have no application to make to any Contractors for the present. I had the Honor to acquaint you before the Campaign that the Expedition would be unavoidably attended with a considerable Expence, and on that account Requested, you would appoint a Publick officer to regulate it. You desired that in order to prevent long & intricate Accompts every Person employed, should be paid as soon as the service was performed, and the Assurance I gave to the People of it, has made them very active, and they have served as well; But Capt. Barnsley



Page 287


GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

287

writes me of the 20th Novr that he has not eceived the fifth part of the money necessary to defray the charges of Carriage &c & that he was obliged to stop Payment. I make no doubt that you will please to give your orders thereon, and if necessary send Col. Robertson to close and discharge those Accompts or I shall have the whole Country lipon my back. To save as much expense as possible to the Crown, I have recommended in the strongest manner to Governor Fanquier to use his influence with the House of Burgesses to engage them to pay the Voluntiers of Virginia, who have Joined the Expedition, and have for the greatest number quitted on that Account their pay as Militia on the Frontiers. As they have not been replaced that I know, it would be no additional expence to the Colony, and they will allow that they have been as usefully employed for them, If you thought fit to enforce my request by a letter to the Governor, it would have a proper weight. I have likewise recommended those of Maryland to Governor Sharpe, and sent to both the Muster Rolls to prevent any abuse. I wrote to General Stanwix that I would look out for a Deputy for his Friend Mr Jackson, our Chaplain: His Majesty's Resolution to let no Officer sell his commission who did not purchase it, will fall heavy upon Col. Haldimand & me who can neither purchase, sell or even exchange for the half Pay out of the Royal Americans; and the two Lt. Colonels have declined coming in upon full Pay Excluded from all favours and Preferrment, even Hope, The Soul of a Soldier is taken from us; Tho the Act of Parliament concerning the Foreigners admitted in His Majesty's service, has left our Career open in America; Coll. Haldimand has seen himself relieved in the Government of Troix Rivieres without the least allowance for the Expence he must have been at: I will not Trouble your Excellency further upon this disagreeable subject, But beg the favour you would give leave to Col. Haldiman to come this winter to New York or Philadelphia, and permit me to go to England next Spring. [A 7, p 96] GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. - NEW YORK December 7th 1764 SIR Major Small arrived yesterday with your Dispatches of the 15th Ult from the Forks of the Muskingham. I am very glad that my Letter



Page 288


288

BOUQUET PAPERS.

of the 21st October got to you in time; not that you could have acted otherwise than you have done, in any situation but it made you easy. I conceive the Latitude given you in your Instructions as sufficient, but from the Tenor of your Letters I perceived you did not look upon your Powers in the same Light that induced me to write you that Letter & being thoroughly satisfied that every thing was very safe in your Hands. The Peace you have made does great Honour to yourself & must give the greater satisfaction to His Majesty as well as to every Person who wishes well to his service. Nothing but the steps you have taken of marching into their country and prescribing your own Terms with that Firmness & Resolution which you have shown thro' all your Transactions with the Savages would ever have brought those Savages to a serious Peace, you have by an admirable Conduct, reduced & humbled them as they deserved; and thereby made a Peace upon a solid Foundation and greatly added to the Reputation of His Majesty's arms amongst the Indian Nations. I return you the Proceedings of the Genl Court Martial with my approbation of the Sentence, but if you see it proper that the Prisoner should retire quietly as the Regiment was to be immediately reduced, you will manage the affair as you judge best. I enclose you a Pardon for Joseph Thomas of the Pensilvania Regiment. I will take the first opportunity to recommend Mr. John Lewis for an ensigncy. His father has been active in the Service from the Beginning of the late war, and the Publick Spirit, he has exerted on this late occasion, certainly entitles Him to some Reward from the Government and I hope he will meet with it. I have transmitted all your Conferences to S' W" Johnson so that he can want no Insight into our affairs, when he comes to transact Business with the Deputy from the Shawanese and Delawares. It were to be wished that Colonel Bradstreet had given you full Information of every thing that had passed on his side. There was a sort of Peace made with Pondiac's Tribes and it was believed he had lost his Influence, in so much, that his own Belt was cut in Pieces. But Capt Morris found he had as much Influence as ever, and he has not come into us; affraid to trust himself. He should if possible be gained to our Interest. The Miamies and Twighwees, Indians of the ouabache and the Illinois tho' not openly in Arms are greatly averse to us; and Pondiac can manage them as he pleases. The Peace lately made may possibly soften all these nations, and if a particular Belt was sent to Pondiac to notify the Peace, and to take him into favour, it may



Page 289


GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

289

greatly advance the service. If he could be got to Fort Pitt or the Detroit He might be made usefull, and as an earnest of his sincerity would be anxious to show us his readiness to do us some notable service. I mention these matters to you in case it should be in your Power to effect any thing of this kind. Major Small mentions that you had some thoughts of sending to take possession of the Illinois by Land with the assistance of Pack Horses. I fear the season was too far advanced, the Journey too long and the Difficultys too great to be undertaken in that manner. The only method must be by water for a Detachment, you will have received my Letter of the 9th and of the 11th of November on this subject & will of course have done every thing in it possible for you to do. The French are working against us privately as much as possible. I have more proofs of it than Mr. Smallman's Letter. I must beg you would thank Colonel Reid for me, for the assistance he has given you in this troublesome campaign. I am with great regard Sir Your most obedient humble Servant Col. Bouquet. THOS. GAGE. [A 8, p 487] GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK Dec r 20th 1764 SIR I am just favoured with your Letters of the 30th of Nov' and 3d Instant by Express. The Behaviour of the Shawanese is somewhat suspicious, and I could wish that your Partys were returned to Fort Pitt who were sent to collect the Prisoners in their villages. If they come in with their Prisoners the Shawanese may still hold thieir Terms of Peace as they will have an advantage over us. You were the best Judge upon the spot whether the Shawanese and Delawares were so far reconciled, as to make it prudent to send an officer with them with Belts to the several Nations mentioned in my Letter. The surest way no doubt to take possession of the Illinois or any other Post is to go with a Body of Troops able to force a compliance. But we have no number of Troops sufficient to do this with. The Delivery of that Country into our hands has been settled by the two courts; The French declare that the Indians of that District, 37 -

Page 290


290

BOUQUET PAPERS.

were well reconciled to it, till spirited up by Pondiac particularly and by the Shawanese and Delawares. We have never been at war with Twightwees, Oerbache or Ilinois Indians and Capt Morris would certainly have got to the Ilinois had not the Shawanese Delawares & Senecas prevailed upon the Twightwees to stop him at the Miamie. Those Nations went earlier than you mention to stop up our Road to that country, for they had just left the Miamie Fort before Capt Morris arrived there, which was on the 7th of Sept. The intention of his going there was not known till the 26th of August, that he sett off with a number of Indians, up the Miamie River. Their view was to keep us out of that River and Country and prevent us having any intercourse with those natives. The Miamie is one Route St Josephs is another. The Belts were sent from the Miamie to St Josephs only three days before Capt Morris got to the Miamis, so that every road on that side was secured. We have made PeAce with the Indians on the Lower parts of the Mississippi. But the Arkansas have been spirited up to oppose us. By which means that Passage is likewise barred against us; And that circumstance has prevented an officer going up to the Illinois from New Orleans. The only Door that remained was by the Ohio. This it was impossible to pass, till Peace should be concluded with the Shawanese and Delawares, and if those Nations are sincere and hearty in their negotiations, They can conduct any Person to the Iinois in the greatest safety, and it has been Judged very proper that a Person should be sent to enter into alliance with them and ask their consent to take Possession of their Country, for want of which Precaution before the Indians took so much umbrage at our possessing ourselves of all the Posts which had been possessed by the French. The French no doubt have had the chief management in those endeavours to obstruct our entrance into the country. They have not dared to do it openly but we. have no reason to doubt, that they have used all means in their Power to do it privately. The Indians of the Illinois would never hurt a person sent with Belts and a proper message from us, conducted by the Shawanese. who could even prevail on their neighbors of the Ouabache to Join them. The French also must prevent his being hurt, and give him Protection should they refuse our Alliance and Friendship, and deny their consent to our coming into their country. The affair would be settled so far as to convince us that nothing but force will affect it. But how or in what manner that force can be raised is another Question; you have seen what the Provinces will do, or rather what they will not do, when the Enemy is at their Doors, What can be expected from them do you



Page 291


GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

291

think, to carry on operations at such a Distance, I should always prefer the Ohio to the Mississippi, in case a large body of Troops was to be employed, but that is not the present plan. A Regiment is to move up the Mississippi, to endeavour to take a peaceable possession and we are to do every thing in our Power from every other Quarter, for the success of this Measure upon this Account it was, I recommended to you in my last the gaining of.Pondiac. From the accounts we have had from the Ilinois, it seems that Pondiac with the Shawanese & Delawares, could put us in possession of that country whenever they pleased. I must use every means to send to the Ilinois which may be effected with safety unless the Shawanese have deceived us. The Question will then be short either force your way or give up all thoughts of it and it is Time this Business was brought to a crisis.From your telling me that you had sent a Minlgo Chief to the Lakes I conclude that you have acquainted Lieut Col Campbell Commanding at Detroit of the Peace you had concluded agreeable to Colonel Bradstreets desire in his letter to you from Sandusky. I am certain that you will do every thing that you see possible to be done to forward the service in the shape I have represented to you. If the Arkansaw Nation could be gained we have no enemy from the Ohio to the Ibbeville. The Ilinois Nation only above the mouth of the Ohio and such allies as they can assemble-They have been spirited up against us but never at war; and proper means used by those who have animated them, may possibly pacify them without more trouble. If Capt Barnsley has been in want of Cash it was for want of timely notice to supply him. You will have been made acquainted before this that I had ordered Colonel Robertson to meet Capt. Barnsley and see that nothing was wanting, giving him at the same time a further credit of ~10,000 Sterling ~7,000 of which Lt. Col. Robertson carried to Capt. Barnsley and on his return told me that it was sufficient in the opinions of Capt Barnsley & Mr. Callender, to pay every thing that was necessary to be paid up the country; that for the remainder the people would desire to be paid in Philadelphia. In case more is wanted you may perceive there is a good sum yet in. Mr. Nelson's hands which may be drawn if Capt Barnsley sees occasiop. As for the sums to be paid in Philadelphia-The Capt may give in a Total of it as soon as he can give a tolerable guess at it; And a Credit sent there any time he chuses. I am ready to hope that Virginia will pay their Militia that turned out Volunteers & have done so much service in their Country; If I write about this affair it will be considered in this alternative, that if



Page 292


292

BOUQUET PAPERS.

the Province does not pay them the King will & in that case you may Judge what will be done in it. I must not give them the smallest hopes the King will pay them, and indeed if he does the Province will never pay them hereafter. This is so well known at home that I have been told that no such Example must be given. They even begin to disapprove of feeding the Provincials. The method you have taken in writing to Gov" Fanquier & Sharpe will it's to be hoped have the weight which ought to be expected from it. I dont apprehend that the Resolution which His Majesty has taken in Respect of Sales & Purchases of Commissions, can affect you & Col. Haldimand more than the rest of the Army. No officers of your Rank *can purchase any thing but Regiments, And that has never been allowed tho often attempted, since I came into the service. In respect of selling you are likewise on the same footing with the rest as well as with regard to an exchange on half Pay: I perceive you Judge from what you have heard of Baun Murster's affair. The Baun played his cards ill and many things occurred which I can't now explain, to settle his affair in the manner you have heard. Colonel Haldimand puts affairs in the very worst of light, he was relieved by the second Councillor in the Province as Colonel Burton was in Montreal by the eldest Counciller. Its true that he had been Govr Murray's Secretary, but had also been a Captain in the Army, and was & still is Deputy Judge Advocate Genl. for North America. This was however an error in Govr Murrays proceedings as there was to be no Lt. Gov r. of those Districts & they were annulled soon after. In respect of Pay for the Time he served 20 Shillings per day has been issued for a certain time, for each of those governments; which I have told Col. Haldimand. That matter I therefore suppose must be settled betwixt him & Col. Burton. I should imagine they would easily settle it. But in case of contestation he has nothing to do but to state the whole affair & transmit it to the Secretary at- War, who would doubtless so regulate matters as to divide the appointment betwixt them,both in proportion to the Time they have served. They have likewise had great disputes about command which has obliged me to leave them as they were by virtue of their former commissions which are not superceded by Govr Murray's Civil Commission. In a Packet or two I expect Col. Burton will be appointed a Brigadier Genl upon



Page 293


GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

293

the Staff in North America, & I can then give Col. Haldimand leave to come to New York without throwing affairs into confusion. I am with great regard Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant Colonel Bouquet THOS. GAGE. P. S. I hope there will be no objection to grant you the leave of absence you desire. If you have had or can obtain any good Accts of the Communication by James River to the Mouth of the Canawaha I would be glad you would send it to me. I have wrote to Gov' Fanquier & told him the advantages which would arise to his Province from making that communication a good one. T. G. [A 8, p 491] GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK SIR Deer 24th 1764. I would be glad that you found a proper officer to send to the Illinois Mr. Croghan is here, who I intend shall accompany the officer whom you shall pitch upon for this business. The Rank of the officer is immaterial, a Volunteer mentioned to be a Cadet in the French stile would do as well as a Commissioned officer. Its necessary only that He is intelligent and speaks French. I am preparing a Letter for Monsr. St. Ange, a Speech for the Indians and messages to the Inhabitants. Croghan will take the Chiefs of the Delawares & Shawanese who have the most Interest with the Ilinois Nations, and proper Belts And Messages from those Nations to them. If you send me the name of the Person you fix upon for this Service it would be inserted. But to save time I may send the papers to you, to insert his name & 'Regiment in the Blanks left for that purpose. Therefore Croghan will leave this, as soon as the several Instruments are made out and I shall write further by Him. I am with great Regard Sir Your most obedient humble Servant THOS. GAGE. General Gage 24 Dec 1764 Received the 4h January 1765 [Entered] [A 8, p, 499]



Page 294


294

BOUQUET PAPERS.

GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET. NEW YORK Feby 26th 1765. SIR I am to thank you for your Letter of the 12th and 17th Inst with their several Enclosures. Capt. Murray's message to the Shawanese by the Six Nations its to be hoped, will have the desired, effect of bringing them in, but if this Disposition of the People of the Frontiers, of killing every defenceless Indian they met with, it will be of little purpose to confer or treat with any of the Nations. The affair you wrote about to Gov' Sharpe should be strictly enquired into pray let me know if you have had any answer from the Governor, for I must get some Intelligence of the methods taken to find out that infamous Action, which you reported to me. If I dont mistake there is later news from Detroit than what Andrew the Huron brought to Fort Pitt, but no Accounts of the Many Partys sent against the Shawanese and Delawares, or of the Scalps taken by the Poutawatamies; so that I don't give much Credit to all that mattei. Sir William Johnson had received a Letter from the Interpreter with the Deputy's of the Delawares to inform Him that the deep snows had delayed them. I believe they are by this Time with Sir William, as well as a great number of the Six Nations, who wexe to be assembled about the same time. I am sorry to find the Assembly of Virginia so very obstinate in refusing Pay to People who have done them more effectual service than all their Militia put altogether, and most sincerely hope that the same thing will not happen in the other Governments. I have received Treasury repeated by the Secretarys of State and War, that I am at a loss to know in what shape I can possibly turn affairs, so as to carry on the Service. To all my other Business there is in part added "that Pay Master General & to be myself accountable by Vouchers for the Expenditures, so that I am become a Cashier, and an Accomptant, nor can any expence be paid till the service it is for is approved by the King unless sudden emergencies should arise. Thus affairs are & the most be made of the monies already granted by me on Mr. Mortier I dont know any better shape to put the business of the Virginia Volunteers in than that what you propose that of a Bounty to equip themselves. The Business of the Agents is finished by the settlement you have fixed with them and as a Contract is now made with the Agent of the present Contractors, it is proper to give out the orders which are sent



Page 295


GEN. THOMAS GAGE TO COL. HENRY BOUQUET.

295

you herewith which I beg you would be so good as show Inglis - for their satisfaction & forward to the Posts whenever you think it proper to change the command, you will send me information & I will appoint Lieut Col. Reid in orders. I have to acknowledge the receipt of the Vouchers & Accts numbered 1 2 3 with the Return of the officers who have the Command in the Posts No 4. I must consider the best method of paying the Militia, and the Losses at Bushy Run, the most regular would be by Warrant if I can bring it about consistent with the orders now sent, and that it shall not occasioh a suspicion that I have deviated from them & bring on an explanation of it. You shall have such receipts as'you think proper for the above Vouchers &c which will either be sent to you, or given you when I have the pleasure to see you. The Person who brought them got a Receipt for the Delivery. The return of the officers of the first Battalion who command on the Albany communication will be sent here. I, have now something to trouble you with which is to beg of you to compute as exactly as you can, what may be the contingent Military Expenses of the Department of Pensilvania pr annm, at a medium, in Time of Peace. Every trifle should be considered supposing a Regiment there as at present. This is demanded from the War Office & must be sent Howe. I must therefore desire you will be so good to send it me as soon as you conveniently can. I have received your Letter of the 18th Inst with Mr. Shcemaker's Letter & Bill against Lieut Benzel inclosed I shall transmit the last to Crown Point by first opportunity. I am with great regard Sir Your most obedient humble Servant THOS. GAGE Letter from Genl. Gage February the 26h 1765 Received the let March Answered the 4h do. [A 8, p 505]



Page 296


HALDIMAND PAPERS * [Continued from Vol. 11.] MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. DETROIT 29th April 1773. SIR, I have just received an account by a Trader from St. Dusky, that a Chawanese Savage has killed Mr. McDowel, a Trader from Pensylvania without any provocation except refusing to sell him Rum. The Indian put his Gun through a small hole in a window & shot him as he was sitting at his fire. untill some effectual method is fallen on to prevent such Quantities of Rum coming up from Albany & Canada, we shall never have a safe Trade, the Chiefs complain much of the intention of the English to kill all their young men, it prevents their hunting, by letting such quantities of spirits go out amongst them, and hurts the trade very much, for instead of that Poison when they return from their winter, they would purchase Blankets, shrowdings &ca which are the manufactures of England, and there would be three times the quantity of Peltry sent home. The Chiefs declare they loose more of their young men by Rum than they used to do by war, & I imagine from what I can learn, are discontented. Believe me Sir, its not, in the power of a Commanding officer at this post, to prevent their * Sir Frederick Haldimand, British general, born in the canton of Neuchatal, Switzerland, in October 1718; died in Yverdun, Switzerland, 5 June 1791. He early entered the Prussian service, but in 1754, with his friend Bouquet, joined the British army. He was appointed lieutenant-colonel of the 50th Royal American regiment 4 Jany. 1756, and came to America in 1757. He distinguished himself, 8 July, 1758, in the attack on Ticonderoga, and by his gallant defence of Oswego in 1759 against the attack of 4,000 French and Indians under Chevalier de la Coine. He accompanied the army under Armherst from Oswego to Montreal in 1760, and in 1762 was promoted to colonel. He was employed in Florida in 1767, and on his arrival at Pensacola enlarged the fort there, widened the Streets, and otherwise improved the place. On 25 May 1772. he became major-general in America, and in October following colonel of.the 60th foot. He returned to England in August, 1775, for the purpose of giving information to the ministry about the condition of affairs in the colonies, was commissioned a general in America 1 Jany 1776, and in 1777 a lieutenant-general in the army. On 27 June, 1778, he succeeded Sir Guy Carleton as governor of Canada and administered that office till 15 Nov., 1784, when he was recalled to England. In his administration of the affairs of Canada he was charged with being severe and arbitrary, and successful actions for false imprisonment were brought against him after his return to England.-Appleton's Cyclopcedia of American Biography.



Page 297


MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. 297 going among them, for the Traders land it down the River & have a thousand other tricks to deceive the Commanding officer & cheat the poor Savages. The Traders in general that are on these Posts, are the outcasts of all Nations, and the refuse of Mankind, I sincerely wish there was a Police form'd for these upper Country's, to make these Vagabonds tremble, a commanding officer here has not authority to punish these Villains & if he takes any steps to recover debts, or any other civil affair, they think together & raise a power to torment him, when he goes down there, these fellows call English Liberty, I should imagine if your Excellency would please to speak to Governor Tryon, he may possibly have some alterations made in these papers, & oblige - them when they come to these Posts, to be subject to the orders of the commanding officer, this would contribute much to keep the Savages quiet for notwithstanding repeated orders these Traders and their Batieau men, watch the skirts of the wood within 3 miles of the Fort & make Bargains with the Indians, cheat them of their Peltry, Venison &ca. lodge it safe in a French house or hide it untill they have an opportunity to convey it privately into the Fort, your Excellency may imagine this may be easily prevented but it is impossible without a commanding officer risking a persecution at Law, until its fully in his power to put these fellows in the guard House, and send them by the first opportunity down to New York, or Canada, till then you'll have frequent murders committed, for they first make the Indians drunk & cheat them, this cant be easily proved in a Court of Justice, for they are all of the same way of thinking & there is no person to prosecute, the poor savage murmors & says it was an English Trader & the particular person is not found out. The King's Domain Joining this Fort is about 12 acres, in Front of fine clear Land, for about 30 acres back, it will soon be claimed as a common, if your Excellency does not order the front to be picketted, I made a small Field for my Horses, at the back of the Kings garden, & the Traders I'm told grumbled and complained much of my taking in part of the common, there are several of the fellows that keeps cows & many sheep without even being thankful, for such an induldence when they have a few years more quiet possession, I dare say they'l contest it, its really a very fine spot of ground & will be valuable in a few years, if the commanding officer will have it in his power to oblige those Traders that behave well & and many of the poorer sort of French, that are very great objects of charity & are well disposed, I have a copy out of the Archives of Canada, ware its called the King's Domain, & the French Commanding officer proved it & did as they thought proper since the 38



Page 298


298

2HALDIMAND PAPERS.

English settled here no officer that commanded (Colonel Campbell) excepted, has ever given themselves much concern about it, the Traders ware very much dis pleased at the Col. for taking in a field Just ware I have done. If your Excellency will allow me to Pickett in the Front of the Domain I'll do it in the most frugal manner & oversee it myself or if your Excellency will allow me fifty Pounds Sterg. I'll take it in & put up handsome large gates, I'm very sure it wild cost more, but for the convenience of the officers & Troops in Garrison I'll pay the rest out of my own pocket, it will be saving a fine Tract of land & if ever this should be made a government it will be very valuable to the person appointed & supply him with plenty & it will help this Garrison very much in raising Potatoes Turnips &ca for the soldiers & keeping cows for those that have families, it will make this a very cheap & plentiful quarter, at present its extravagantly dear, The English Traders have all the Inhabitants under their contributions there's no possibility of establishing a market, & every article even so low as a few eggs must be purchased from the Traders at an Extravagant Price as he takes them from the Inhabitants in payment for Rum &ca so that the Military have every thing their Rations excepted, at a very dear rate, & are the only sufferers, I should be very much concerned if your Excellency conceives the most distant Idea of my having any particular advantage, in pressing you to have the Domain picketted my only motives are the comfort of the officers & soldiers. I have drawn on yr Excellency in favor of Mr. James Stirling for ~245 18s. 6d. N. York curr'y to pay the Interpreters & Indian acct. which I hope Y' Excellency will find very moderate, I have endeavoured to be as frugal as possible, for I have been obliged to purchase every thing, as nothing was left but a few flints of the Indian articles the 1st of Novr. last, The Indians come in at present in great numbers, I cant help giving them they arp very prefering & indeed very poor for owing to the plenty of Rum, many of them Hunt but very little & indeed this winter for want of snow, there has been very bad Hunting wch made some of them remain near the Fort & if they did not get a little provision &ca they would probably destroy all the cattle & sheep; besides this is not a time to refuse them a little cloathing & provisions. The Repairs of the Fort & Barracks goes on very well, the three companies here have but two, that are called Joyners & the Artillery one and they are all the very worst I ever saw & we cant possibly get a carpenter under a Dollar a Day & his provisions. I have not authority to employ any artificers, except at the King's price, I shall therefore



Page 299


CAPT. JOHN VATTAS TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE.

299

wait for Yr. Excellency's directions, through the chief Engineer, & we shall continue to do as much as possible at the Block Houses &ca. I am with very great. Respect, Y' Excellency's Most obliged & obedient Humble Servant HEN. BASSET [B 70, p 44] CAPT. JOHN VATTAS TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. MICHILIMAKINAC May 16th SIR 1773 I have the honor to enclose to you Returns of the state of Ordnance & Engineers Stores together, with one of Provisions, the Store House is very near finished, already contains the greater part of them, & I hope to inform your Excellency, by next opportunity of its being complete, I received a Barrel of Nails from Detroit which not answering for shingles, obliged me to take others out of the Engineers Stores, & have them made fit here for that use, as it would otherwise have been impossible to go on with the Building, I have also provided near eight hundred Pickets for the Post, three hundred of which have been already placed in,the room of others, entirely decayed; The winter from the accounts of the Savages that visited us in the course of it has been remarkably hard, insomuch that many of them scarce kept from starving, I am sorry to find these confirmed by others come in from a greater Distance, with the additional circumstance of some being reduced to feed on Human Flesh. However many being not yet arrived, I shall not take it upon me -to give it to your Excellency for truth, no more than about some Traders loosing their lives about La -Bay; as*I understand their Rumours frequently spread here, at this season, to answer private ends, I shall lose no time in acquainting your Excellency when I hear further about it, with any degree of certainty. Mr. Askin Comisary & Mr. Ainse, Indian Interpreter, have applyed, to me for leave to enclose some few acres of land, & build each a house within about three miles of the Fort, which I have



Page 300


300

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

agreed to on condition that if you should object it be immediately levelled. I have the honor to be Sir Your most obedient Most humble Servant JOHN VATTAS To His Excellency The Honourable Thomas Gage Esqr New York [B 70, p 55] MAJOR HENRY BASSETT TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. DETROIT, 21st May 1773. SIR I have been duly honored with Your Excellency's obliging Letter of the 2d April past, the other Letter that your Excellency, refers me to of a former date is not yet arrived which I suppose contains full directions about the Saguinagh Savages, I have the three murderers of Pond, and his three Servants, in Irons since the 8th of this month, they have fully confessed, the murders the particulars of which you shall have sent you so soon as I have received your Letter which I suppose will be here with the Gage & w"` will be a guide to me with respect to these horrid Villains. The Chieft &c who brought these Fellows in I have been obliged to make presents to & the stratagems that I have been obliged to use, has been attenfded with a considerable expence, however I should be well satisfied to pay every sixpence out of my own pocket, provided two were to be executed here, & their Heads put on each gate, & the third at Michilimackinac, in my opinion it would have more effect than ~2000 in presents. I have been obliged to purchase Indian Articles at a great expence, & if some things don't come up soon it will make the accouts very large, for I have not had a Blanket Shirt or Howde, since November last, these 3 savages being confined bring vast numbers to the Fort & every 2 or 3 hours they send for Provisions, for they eat like monsters & I cant refuse them as I promised their chief, they should have a sufficient Quantity, a Ration would not Breakfast one of them, one of them has a wife & children wCh I am at present obliged to maintain as they are constantly



Page 301


MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE.

301

about the Fort, I shall make every Enquiry about the St. Joseph affair & get the best Information I can. I am with very great Respect Your Excellency's ever obliged & faithful Humble Servant HEN: BASSET Major to the 10th Regiment His Excellency Gen. Gage [B 70, p 67] MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. DETROIT 4th June 1773. SIR Under date the 21st June last, I answered yr Excellency's Letter of 2d April, on the 26th Ulto. I was favoured with two letters from Your Excellency, one the 2d December the other 29th March, past, I shall observe and execute your Excellency's orders, that affair of Venslicks, at St. Joseph's, I dont condemn the Savages, near so much for as one Chevallier, a Frenchman, who is constantly there & I believe hurts us much in the esteem of the Indians, Your Excellency will see by the enclosed, what the Indians have declared, but we have no other proof and this will not be sufficient in a court of Judiction should I get him taken and sent down to Canada, there is no one to prosecute him, he would soon come back, the rest of the French men that live there will ever be the cause of frequent murders, committed by the Savages, on English Traders, I will not grant passes either to French or English to trade at that Post, I have given directions to the commanding officer at Michilimackinac to the same purpose, these St. Joseph Savages a few days since brought a large Belt & Strings of Wampum together, with a Pack of Peltry, which I refused, & told them untill they, behaved better, I should not receive them, as I did my other children, I have received a Letter from Sir William Johnson, with some forms relative to the 3 murderers, I shall obey your Excellency's orders, and observe most exactly his directions, I have sent an Express for the Chief of thad Nation, with some strings of wampum & as soon as they arrive will release the three murderers, since the above I am Just favoured with Your Excellency's Letter of the 11th of April, to hold



Page 302


302

HALDIMAND PAPERS,

himself in readiness to embark, on the 17th Instant, the wind permitting, I have also order'd him to give over the works to Capt Hirk, with all the wood stone &ca and to transmit an account of what has been done, with the expences of the Chief Engineer, I have declared Captn Hirk in orders, to superintend the works, but have stopt the men for a Day or two, untill every thing is delivered up in a regular manner, I request Your Excellency will please to confirm Captn Hirk in this appointment, he is very fit for it, he's an exceedingly diligent good officer, has a Family & is only on Lieuts pay, I therefore entreat you'll desire Capt" Flowers to continue him. The Indian Articles are arrived and I hope in good order, we have had vast numbers of Savages here on account of these Prisoners, I have been obliged to purchase many articles for them, not having anything left since October last, Your Excellency may depend on it I'll be as careful as possible but the several accidents that has happened, at this Post since my command must be attended with great expence, I return Your Excellency my sincere thanks, for youir goodness in expressing your approbation of my. conduct, I have had the honor of Sir William Johnson's thanks. In Capt. Towers Instructions to Lieut Abbott he does not mention the provision store house which was particularly stated in the Court of Enquiry, it will entirely fall if not ordered to be repaired & the provision will spoil, I beg you'll please to direct Capt Hirk about it. I have the Honor to be with very great esteem Y' Excellency's ever obliged & faithful Humble Servant. HEN BASSETT Major His Excellency. to the 10h Regt. General Gage [B 70, p 85] CAPT. JOHN VATTAS TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. MIOHILIMAKINAO June 16th 1773 SIR Your Excellency's Letters of Novr. 25th 1772 & March 29th 1773 I had the honor of receiving last week & shall endeavour to follow the several directions inserted to the best of my abilities a Priest of Detroit by name Simple raised a report last winter that a Body of Savages in number about five hundred attempted cutting off the Fort on New



Page 303


CAPT. JOHN VATTAS TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. 303 Year's day last that near two hundred of these had already gained admittance to the Fort unnoticed & were by mere chance afterwards discovered by a Sentry from whose information they were searched & found to have arms cut short concealed under their Blankets; upon this discovery those without dispersed & fled as did the former as quick as possible; This he informed an Engage of who had been sent by His *Bourgeois early in Jany. there from off his wintering ground about eighty leagues on business to his owner, who on his return divulged all he had heard from the Recollet & carried by it much uneasiness amongst the Traders & Savages, I have sent him down to Detroit to be examined in presence of the Recollet, altho' he denies the whole, notwithstanding the other has sworn to the Deposition, Mr. St Luc Lacorne's arrival here from Montreal, some time after this ugly Report, added to a Paper left by my Predecessor, relative to a Savage having received a Belt from him, with words that passed between them on that occasion made me begin to keep a sharp lookout & guard in as far as possible against any attempt here by surprise or otherwise, I immediately caused the pickets absolutely worn away to be pulled down, had new ones planted in their room got several hundred more cut & cannon rightly prepared, However I soon discovered Mr. St. Luc's business, to be only to gather in some debts, have had that same savage examined by him & the Interpreter in presence of witnesses, who were readily convinced his accounts were groundless & malicious & deserving of the severest punishment. One Ducharmes, a Trader has been plundered in the course of winter by a Lasaide, 'who follows some business on the Spanish side. This Ducharmes went I believe beyond our Limits and was served so in consequence of it by order of Mr. Purenasse the Spanish Commandant, on the Missouri, the Spaniards I'm told want much to engross all the Trade with the Saaks, & prevailed on them very lately to go against the Osages, with whom they had since engaged, that fifteen of the former had been killed, on the spot and the rest had fled much dissatisfy'd with that Expedition, I have also heard of a Mr. Boyle's having been killed wintering with three or four more in other parts; but as tis not yet certain how it happened, nor by whom perpetrated, I must wait the arrival of other Traders & refer Your Excellency for a certainty of those facts to another opportunity. Two of Mr. Baxters Company of Miners are here, on their Return to England & Himself shortly expected, on same Business, I'm told they are heartily tired of the undertaking, met with some disappointment in their last year's drafts & have determined to persist no longer in their * Evidently a mistake.



Page 304


304

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

error, I have directed by the opportunity of the sloop, to Your Excellency, an account of Expenditures for things furnished to Savages by Mr. Todd, with a Draft at twenty days sight in his favor, for the amount Commodore Grant has signified to me having received your orders to prepare two Boats, for the use of this Garrison, I have the Honor to be Sir Your Excellency's most obedient Humble Servant JOHN VATTAS The Interpreter has layed before me & desired me to represent it to you, that Captain Turnbull agreed with him for a Dollar & Ration per Day, the Latter he understands is to be struck off, but flatters himself from Your Excellency's known goodness, the dearness of every thing here & his endeavours to prove himself worthy of his office that you will order him a continuance of it. Captn Vattas Letter of June 16h Reed July 30th Answd Augt 10th [B 70, p 88] JAMES ANDREWS TO MAJOR HENRY BASSET. GENERAL GAGE AT DETROIT June 17th SIR 1773 I beg leave to inform you that on my last voyage to Fort Erie, that Ensign Metham, commanding at that Post, acquainted me that not only.Colonel Smyth's orders, but also from several circumstances that fell under his own immediate notice that there was great reason to suspect the Indians Evil Intentions of attacking the English. This was confirmed to me by Mr. Willson an Indian Trader, who assured me that he had frequently this Spring overheard the Indians drop many hints relative to this matter, I have also to add that on the night of the first of June, then lying at ft. Erie that Nannebarque an Indian Chief with Six other Indians, came on board seemingly to spy, whether we kept any watch in the night, these circumstances Sir I have thought it my duty to acquaint you off. Tis also my duty as master of His Majesty's Schooner, the General Gage to acquaint you of her defenceless state having on board only eight useless Muskets without Pistol, Sword or Pike & only about two pounds of Powder, for the carriage guns I therefore request Sir, that you will be pleased to order such quantity of small,arms and ammunition as you shall Judge necessarie, and as soon as may be convenient, at least before we



Page 305


CAPT. JOHN VATTAS TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND.

305

sail again for Ft. Erie, I need not Sir, further inforce the expediency of this to you, who is perfectly acquainted how very essential the Vessels are to the well being of Detroit & its dependancies. I have the honor to be Sir with the greatest Respect your most obedient & very humble Servant JAMES ANDREWS To Major Henry Basset ] Master of the G. Gage Commanding Detroit & its dependancies j [B 70, p 92] CAPT. JOHN VATTAS TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. MISSILIMAKINAC July 1st SIR 1773 I did myself the honor to acquaint Your Excellency, in my last that there were many Reports relative to Traders having lost their lives, wintering which I wanted a confirmation,of, previous to affirming it for Truth, Hugh Boyle, killed at Pa Riviere des Sauteux, I by desire of the Traders, had a Court of Enquiry upon, who gave me in their opinion, that he had been in a great measure accessory, to his own Death; he attempted Twice it seems, to kill an Engage; but his Piece missing Fire & the other presented fire and killed him at once. Two of Mr. Todds men wintering between the falls of St. Mary & Grand Portage are missing. By their Books it appears they were alive in Feb'y last, that they about that time gave credit to a Squaw known in those parts for a vile wretch, but as the Packs, made by them have been found & received by the owner, tis hard yet to say whether they were killed by the aforesaid woman, or perished for want of sustnance. Mr. Ducharme's affair, I imagine, has been mentioned to Your Excellency by the commanding officer, nearest that Post, so imagine it unnecessary to trouble you with any Repitition, I have received a Batteaux agreeable to your orders, from Detroit and expect the second by first opportunity; Of the four left me here by Capt. Turnbull, one only remains in some measure fit for service, I have repaired the otherp so often & to so little purpose that, I begin to consider it, as money thrown away, unless you pleased to order Commodore Grant, to send me a man to inspect into & repair them. I must now acquaint. your Excellency that there are four Saak Chiefs, come this Spring toi 39



Page 306


306

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

the Fort, but did not bring in the Murderer according to promise & pledges left by them with my predecessor, they pretend that they joined a band of Savages, going to war with others: I at first refused them admittance; which by advice of the Traders was afterwards granted them & I dismissed them convinced to all appearance of their Breach of Faith & Resolution to make it good next Spring; I dont imagine much faith is to be given to their promises, a greater quantity of Packs I have room to think have been made this season than usual; but as the Traders increase yearly in numbers & each man does not make equally alike' they in general call the last a bad winter, the Savages upon the whole dont appear satisfied. they are much inclined to war with each other & while I endeavour to reconcile them I am sensible from various Reports however Idle, given in to me, that I must trust as little as possible in them. I have the honor to be Sir Your Excellency's most obedient most Humble Servant JOHN VATTAS. [B 70, p 119] THOMAS ROBISON TO MAJOR HENRY BASSET. ON BOARD HIS MAJESTY'S SCHOONER EARL OF DUNMORE DETROIT 3d July 1773. SIR I think it my duty to acquaint you with the Defenceless state of this Vessel, I have the honor to command, there is but four Pounders on Board without Pouder or shot, there is neither Muskets, Bayonets, Cutlasses, Pikes, or any other Implement of War, fit for the defence, of the vessel, in case, she should, be attacked, by the Savages, I have, also to acquaint you that, the last time I was at Fort Erie, Ensign Metham, commanding there informed me that not only from Colonel Smyth's orders, to him, but also from circumstances that fell under his own immediate notice that there was great reason, to suspect their evil intentions against the English it was likewise told me by Mr. James Wilson an Indian Trader that he had this Spring frequently over heard, them drop many hints relative thereto, I also beg leave to acquaint you with what happened while we lay at Fort Erie, on the night of the 12th June when it was Blowing very hard with thunder, Lightning & Rain, exceedingly dark, except between the flashes of Lightning there was some Indians came or rather stole on board, with



Page 307


MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE.

307

0 a intention, as I think to see if we kept a good watch, & in the morning there was others came alongside, & wanted to get on board, which I refused they attempted to obtain by force, what they could not, by fair means, & it was with great difficulty we kept them, off without useing violence, which was not well in our power to do, when they found they would not let them come on Board, they were very much enraged, they told us if we were masters on Board, they were masters on the Land &ca, from this behaviour & what is reported, there is some reasons to think they will do mischief, if they see a good opportunity offer, they never behaved in so insolent a manner sinceL have known, the Lakes, & that is going on eight years, I need not mention to you, Sir how very necessary it is to keep our vessels always in proper Defence, against so Treacherous an Enemy, nor need I remark that Michilimackinac depends greatly on this Vessel, for a proper, supply of Stores, & provisions &ca. all this.you are well acquainted with, & I hope that you will see that there is a great necessity for ordering me a proper supply of Arms & ammunition, as you shall think necessary for the Defence of this Vessel, for, I do assure you Sir, if the Savages, was to attack us in the condition we are in they would cut us off, & we should not only lose, our characters, & Lives, but in my opinion it would be a very great Disgrace, to the English ever afterwards, for to give up any thing belonging to His Majesty, for the want of Arms & Ammunition, even if it was only a long boat, I am Sir with great Respect Your very obedient Humble Servant THO" RoBIsoNMajor Henry Basset, commanding Detroit and its Dependancies [B 70, p 129] MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. THOMAS GAGE. DETROIT 13th July 1773 SIR Under date of the 14th June Past, I had the Honor of writing to yr Excellency, in answer to yrs. of the 2d Decr. 29h March and twenty first of April, which I hope you have only received. Enclosed are two Letters from the Capt. of His Majestys Vessels, on this Lake, by which you'll please to observe, that they are in great want of Muskets Bayonets, Pistols, Cutlases, Pikes &c. &c. Tho' I had not sufficient



Page 308


308

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

authority for complying with their request, I immediately ordered Twelve Muskets wch are equal, number of Bayonets to each Vessel & one Barrel of Powder to be equally divided, likewise some Ball Cartridges & Flints, which I hope will meet with Yr Excellency's approbation._ The Indians seem to me tolerably quiet, but people that know them, seem, to think they are plotting something bad; I shall use my best endeavours to watch their motions & shall give Yr Excellency & Sir William Johnson such information, as I shall receive by the earliest opportunity, we have not above sixty serviceable stand, of arms, in our ordnance store & on any emergency, I imagine with Traders & Militia we would raise, at a short time above 300 men, that might be entrusted with Arms, I therefore think, with humble submission, to Your Excellency, that it would not, be improper, to send up some stands of arms, likewise every thing necessary for the defence of the vessels, I have the honor to.be with very great Respect. Yr. Excellency's most obliged & [. Faithful Humble Servant HEN: BASSET His Excellency Major General Gage to the 10th Regiment [B 70, p 142] SPEECH IN INDIAN COUNCIL AT DETROIT. IIIAMIS 18th August 1773 The answer of the Miamis Indians to Sir William Johnson's Speech, addressed to them by the Hurons: Our Elder Brethren, We are well pleased with the message you bring us from, our Governor General Johnson. Lo, this is the first. time, that we have the pleasure to know, that our General speaks to us, we see that he takes pity on us by sending us this good speech, and we receive it with both our hands, we will do every thing agreeable to his will when we find the speech comes from himself, and we see now, that it is real, and that it is for good, seeing that the Hurons interfere we have listened to them in all times as we have le'arned from our ancestors, and we will pay no regard to what we hear from any others, we have always had bad birds fluttering about our heads, who vexed our hearts, so that we could hear nothing right We'll name you these birds they are the Shawanese: who at the same time they talked of peace, told us to keep our axes, always sharp, and ready so. soon as the Tawny Ekins (meaning the Indians) were assembled



Page 309


SPEECH IN INDIAN COUNCIL AT DETROIT.

309

together, that they should be all of one people, and strike again all men who wear hats, (meaning the white people) and these talks came from General Johnson's favorites, the Six Nations, whom he esteems so much, and who are always stirring up mischief, For which reason, our Elder Brethren; we would not listen to them, but always make War against the Flat Heads, now you are come to tell us that we are all as one people, wherefore we receive Governor Johnson's Belt, with both our hands, notwithstanding that we are worthy of compassion, having ever since the English are in possession of the country, been looked upon as Bastards; yet our chiefs of the Villages and War Chiefs, will go and use their utmost endeavours that all may be peaceable, and undisturbed agreeable to Genl. Johnson's desire, you Hurons, our Elder Brethren, you reproach us, that you having come to pass, in the road of our former Brethren, have found it stained with the Blood of our present Brethren the White People, Tis true it is stained, but we have not stained it; The road was made by our Ancestors, it now turned aside; we are not the cause of it. Tis true we have imbrued our hands in the Blood of our Brethren, the White People; but it was not on the road of our ancestors, it was off from it, in the Enemies country our Tomahawk fell, you reproach us with the blow against Major Cochran, and our little Brethren the Shawanese, and our having killed them all together, If he had known the former road that was made, this matter would not have happened he was found in the path of the Enemy, it was unlucky for, him, and us, when he came in the road that was traced out by our ancestors, he got to his home, with the greatest facility, and, we believe he has no reason to complain of our Miamis, this old road is now opened again and we are going altogether to sweep it, and make it clean; that agreeable to your demand every one may pass without molestation, Thoe' our chiefs be not here, we imagine he will not be dissatisfied with what we do now, and we give some branches of Wampum, and a pipe of peace to confirm what we say the Queen of the Village has given us some branches of Wampum, thanking us that we have taken pity on the women, and children; Wherefore they join alltogether in this speech and are so well satisfied that they will use their utmost endeavours, to prevent the Chiefs, their children, from doing contrary to the desire of Governor Johnson, we kindly, thank the Governor of all Nations, that he has taken pity on us, and we pray the Master of Life to give success to his embassy, We thank our Elder Brethren the Hurons, for coming personally to bring us the Governors Speech; we observe they are old men, and that



Page 310


310

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

it is an affair of consequence, and we thank you all for taking pity on us. CHAPOLONTIA PAKANE JUNR. [Signed] NAQUAHOUANDE LE GRIS The proceeding Speech was delivered by Baby and several Huron chiefs in council at Detroit 28th August 1773 to Major Henry Basset Commander and translated from the French by James Stirling. [B 70, p 188] MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. DETROIT 29th August 1773. SIR, I have the honor to receive Yr. Excellency's Letter of the 15th June, I shall observe your directions with Respect to the Indians, I only wait for Sr. William Johnson's Letter, some time since by Sir William's desire, I sent a large Belt from the Six Nations to the Pouawatamies, of St Joseph's, with a very spirited message, from them, the 'Chief that took it is not yet returned, I have received an account from the Wabash, that some Indians fell in near the Ohio, with four English Traders, and fifteen Horses, loaded, that they had scalped the Traders, & taken the Horses & goods, this is not confirmed tho' the Huron's have mentioned it to me, Councill, and they are seldom out, I dont think the Indians at present are, as much to be trusted, they seem very restless, as Yr. Excellency will perceive, by the enclosed which I received from the Hurons, in Councill ready, wrote in French & translated by Mr. James Stirling for me, I believe some French Traders, amongst them help to stir them up, the provision store is in very bad order, I sent the proceedings of a Court of Enquiry, to His Excellency General Gage, but have not yet rec'd any orders about Building up the wall, &c. For want of a Civil Government being established here the commanding officers is very much employed, with the disputes & difficulties which must naturally happen between the Inhabitants I'm so uncomfortable as not to speak French, or understand it sufficiently without an Interpreter, hitherto I have been under an obligation to Mr. Stirling Merch' who has been ready on all occasions to attend, has wrote & answered all my French Letters without any gratuity, a French Interpreter where the Inhabitants amount to near 1300 Souls, I should conceive, with submission to your Excellency Government,



Page 311


CAPT. ALEX. GRANT TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND.

311

would not object to, more particularly as I'm informed one is paid at the Illinois, should your Excellency, allow me one here I beg to recommend Mr. James Stirling, who is the first Mercht. at this place, & a gentleman, of good character, during the late war, through a Lady, that he then courted, from whom he had the best information, was in part a means to save this garrison, this Gentleman is now married to that Lady & is connected with the best part of this Settlement, has more to say with them than any one here; the Indians, cant well begin without his having information of their designs, If your Excellency disapproves of adding a third Interpreter, mine for the Hurons is a drunken idle fellow, scarcely worth keeping except out of charity if your Excellency, will appoint Mr. Stirling, French & Huron Interpreter, he'l oblige himself to find a proper person for that nation, Mr. Stirling tells me He has the Honor to be known to Yr. Excellency, having served under you as commissary of provisions, in the year 1759, at Oswago & at Fort Augustos in 1760, at his earnest Request I have taken the Liberty to enclose to Yr. Excellency a memorial from him,, I have the honor to be with very great Respect Your Excellency's most obedient & very Humble Servant H. BASSET His Excellency Major General Haldimand. to the 10h Regiment [B 70, p 214] CAPT. ALEX. GRANT TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAMD. DETROIT, September 3d 1773 SIR I have of congratulating' your Excellency of being appointed commander in chief, and as one of the best men in the world, has quited that command, no man of your Rank, that has served in North America, could have given me more pleasure to have been appointed than your Excellency, I have the pleasure of acquainting your Excellency, that this Garrison, and those of Niagara, and Michilimackinac, has been supply'd, with their quota of provisions, this month past; and has laid up one of the Kings Vessels, at this place, and intends to see the rest lay'd up before I quit this Port; and settle the Department to the satisfaction of Your Excellency; when then I shall do



Page 312


312

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

myself the Honor of waiting upon Your Excellency, at New York, I shall leave this about the beginning of October. I have the honor of being Your Excellency's most obedient Servant ALEX GRANT To with your directions of your General Haldimand Vessel upon the Lakes. [B 70, p 222] CAPT. JOHN VATTAS TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. MISSILIMAKINAC SIR Sept. 8th 1773. Nothing very material has happened about here since the last I had the honor to direct to His Excellency, General Gage, except the company of Miners, established I believe about three years ago, at Fort Gloucester, near the Falls of St. Mary, having recalled their director Mr. Baxter, as he himself advises me by Letter, accusing Him at same time of having traded for His private Emolument, to this company, prejudice, the general opinion however seems to be, the jealousy of certain Traders, has given rise to this accusation & that the company, tired of pursuing so long their scheme, without the last (least ) Return, have gladly seized the opportunity of declaring off, this however is nothing but surmised as Mr. Baxter expects Returning, but I thought it my Duty in the mean while to acquaint your Excellency, of it the Traders are mostly gone to their wintering grounds, & tho they complained much of bad success last season, I find by the Returns, that near four Thousand Packs came down this way. I have the honor to be Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant "To JNO. VATTAS Major Capt" General Haldimand Regt. Tenth. (B 70, p 224]



Page 313


MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. 313 MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. DETROIT September 30h 1773. SIR I am Honored with Yr. Excellency's Letter of the 12th August last, I'm much obliged to you for appointing, Capt. Kirk, This climate is so mild that I hope the Captain will be able to do a good deal this winter, & in Spring to begin early on the Guard House, Wharf &c. according to the Instructions, I have enclosed your Excellency a Speech of the Pottawatamy's of St Joseph, in answer to a Belt & Speech sent me by Sir, William Johnson, from the Six Nations, I have by this opportunity, wrote to Sir William & sent him a large Belt with their Speech, I have not purchased any cloathing for the Indians since the Shirts Blankets &ca arrived from New York, before that it was impossible to avoid it; I have not had any of the few things left by Captain Stephenson since last October & I have been obliged to make many presents in consequence, of the many meetings I have had on Ponds & Venslecks affair, Lt. Colletton, and ten men of the Royal Artillery, arrived here the 28th and likewise five for Michilimackinac, C Captain Grant, thinks it is too late for the Dunmore to venture to Mackinac, I shall get a Pilot, as soon as possible, & endeavour to send them in a Batteaux which I'm getting a sail made for Poles &ca. stationery postage &c, come to considerable sum at this post, for which, I have never had any allowance, I shall be infinitely obliged to your Excellency, to desire your secretary to inform me in what manner I am, to be reimbursed, I wrote to Lt. Col. Smith, at Niagara, & I received for answer, that he had no president, for such a charge, left him by Major Etherington, who had commanded there before, & told me further, that he would not allow it to be charged in the IPgt contingent account without he would find a president during the different comand for it, I believe with submission, that in every Regt in the Army this accepted, the Major is allowed postage, for his military Letters, & stationery, the Express for Niagara, will leave Schenectady, about the 3rd or 4th of January & from here to Niagara the 15h January 1774. I have the Honor to be with much esteem Yr. Excellency's most obedient & most Humble His Excellency Servant General Haldimand H. BASSET [B 70, p 257] 40



Page 314


314

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. DETROIT 15th October 1773. SIR, I am favoured with your Excellency's Letter. of the 27th August, & am much obliged to you, for having ordered up Arms &ca for His Majesty's Vessels, I have given a very strict charge, to the masters, to be very careful of the arms & ammunition and in every Respect, to be very watchfull I shall endeavour to follow Your Excellency's orders, in the most exact manner, Dr. Anthon, who attends this Garrison is a very worthy good man the medicine money of three companies, is not sufficient to pay for the medicines the men have taken, he has had a great deal of trouble since our arrival; what with sickness & accidents besides he's really kind to the Indians who come dayly to him they often tell him he's obliged to attend them, their Father sent him here for that purpose, there's nothing can be more wished for, than a Surgeon established here, both on acct of the Troops & Savages, the latter numbers are now in a wretched state, with the Venerial disorder, I'm afraid notwithstanding every possible precaution is taken its often communicated to our Troops, Doctor Anthon, has intreated me to enclose a memorial to Your Excellency, which I should not have assumed to have done, only he's so worthy a man, & realy merits a provision from Government, has mentioned in a Letter to me, that he should be considered for his trouble; & the difference could not be worth speaking about, of whether he had an allowance annually, or was established to attend the Troops & Indians which would make a certainty to him, otherwise its not worth his while to stay, here, and should he leave this. a Surgeon, would be much wanted for this Garrison & I hardly imagine we shall ever be so fortunate, as to get a gentleman so eminent in his profession, I hope yr Excellency will pardon my having given you this trouble, I have the Honor to be with the Utmost Respect y r Excellency's most obedt. & Most humble Servant HEN: BASSET [B 70, p 297]



Page 315


MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. 315 MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. DETROIT 15h Novr. 1773. SIR I did myself the Honor to write your Excellency the 15h of last month, I take this opportunity by Captain Andrews, who commands the general Gage, armed Schooner, to inform your Excellency that the Indians are at present very quiet, & I hope there's a probability of their Continuance the Bearer, is a gentleman who behaves, with great propriety, is a good sea officer, & is very much esteemed here, as such I beg leave to introduce him to Your Excellency, The King's Vessels, have brought up ll provisions stores &ca. are laid up for winter, the Capt. has applyd for my permission to bring up his family, which I have granted provided he is at Fort Erie, by the first opportunity in Spring, I shall send all returns &ca & write Your Excellency fully by the Express, which leaves this the 15h Jan. next. I have the Honor to be with much Esteem Yr. Excellency's most obedient -Humble Servant HEN: BASSET Major to the 10th Regt. [B 70, p 341] MAJOR HENRY BASSET TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. DETROIT 10th January 1774 SIR I have been Honord w th y Excell"'" Letter of the 10th of October past by Mr. Maisonville the 28th November following: Full two Months before I recd yr Excell" Comands, I sent express orders to the Miamis, to suport his Excell'c General Gages intentions in favor of Mr. Maisonville & that no person sh' presume to carry over any packs or Canoes but People appointed by him for that purpose. About five weeks since a Canadian one (Bazile Favro) was brought in here from the Wawbash, his strongly suspected to have Murther'd one St Amour (his Bourgois) I have an affidt from one (Dejeane) that he confess'd the Murther, I shall by this oportunity write to Mr. Cramate & the Chief Justice, & will send him to Montreal, when the River opens, I keep him Iron'd & Closely Confin'd, & shall Maintain him: \



Page 316


316

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

I shall begin the Provision store in spring also the warf & Gard House acording to orders, we are getting Timber Saw'd Plank &c to have in Readiness. I have drawn on y r Excellency in favor of [Mr. Sterling] to pay the Interpreters, Black Smith and other Indian Expences. I have endeavor'd to be as frugal as in my power, this affair at laquiat & the St Josephs together with the three Murtherers that was so long Confined added to the expence: I was obliged to purchase every Article Until the things ariv'd from York last summer. The Savages about here seem at present better disposed than they have been for two or 3 years past I had about 200 including Women & Children to vissit me on New Years Day: I reinftrc'd the Guards & Pickets, but did not shew the least sign of suspicion the custom is to give them a Brick of Bread, a Dram-the Chiefs and their Familys & Relations a few Rations of Provisions: their Squaghs & children are now much about, the Fort, this is reckoned by the Inhabitants an exceedingly good sign, to see their Familys bring in Meat & stay about the Fort in Winter, for w`' reason I think its right to encourage them provided the behave well, I have the Honor to be with very great Esteem Yr Excellency's Most obt. and most Hble Servt H. BESSET P. S. I coud not get a Pilot under 20 pound to conduct the Artillery to Michilimackinack beside the men ware totally disus'd to Battoeing. I have therefore kept them here, & shall send them to Mackina the moment the river opens H. B. His Excell" Genl Haldimand. [B 71, p 13] DUDLEY TEMPLER TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. MONTREAL 22 May 1774 SIR In obedience to an order I received from Colonel Jones, I am directed to send to New York Samuel Dyson a deserter from the 21st Regiment, apprehended by a party of the 8th (or King's Regiment) quartered at Chamblie about three months ago this is the first oppertunity that has offered or he should have been sent Sooner. The last Company of the first Division of the 8th Regim' embarked yesterday morning on Board the Batteaus at La Chene, on their way



Page 317


ALEXANDER BLAINE TO MATTHEW ELLIOT.

317

to Michilimackinac & Detroit, they have been detained at La Chene ever since Tuesday for want of Pilots. Lady St. Clair begs leave to join me in her most respectful Compliments. I have the honor to be Your Excellencies Most obedient & very His Excellency Humble Servant General Haldimand. DUDLEY TEMPLER [B 71 p 148] ALEXANDER BLAINE TO MATTHEW ELLIOT. CARLISLE 9h August 1775 DR SIR The skins you got at the mearaving (Sic) Town I gave to Mr. Mulligan as you directed me but not delivered them two hours till I much Rued the delivery for he would not so much as pay the waggoner His Carriage there must have been a great mistake in the numbers the Boys can inform you I have sent you the news papers which I refer you to for the news of this place. The two young Ladies at the Corner is very well and Desires their compliments to you the shine more in Dress than ever they did before. I have sent you a young man I bought three years to serve and a good scolar which cost me Fifteen Pounds which nine months of hired hand would come to that wages he has been well educated and youl please spare him a little at first you may discharge a hand if you have too many let me have the news of Detroit when the People comes back send what Peltry you can muster that I may be able to make a purchase if any goods can be got traps and Silver Truck you may depend when the Horses returns you may Believe me the disappointment is not from me for I tried in about Carlisle lancaster and Philad" but could get none. Dear Mathew I remain Your very humble Servant ALEXR. BLAINE N. B. Make my Compliments to all the Boys. Addressed:-To Mr. Mathew Elliot at Shawney Town [B 185-2, p 532]



Page 318


318

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

ALEXANDER BLAINE TO MATTHEW ELLIOT. DR SIR If you would think either the guns or the Traps would be wanted you will please to write me Emediately that I may have it in my power to send them. David Duncan will go down by water in the Spring and if you would want anything and give him timely notice I could have a passige with him. This day I am ready to sett off for Carlisle I would be glad you would write me what way you are to get home in the Spring and whether I could be of any service to you in getting up in the Spring, if you think I can you'll please sett the operation and let me know and will be allways ready to assist in any thing I can be of service to you in I would be glad you would be away from there in the Spring soon enough to have our Troops ready to Joyne the service in the month of May as it is thought there will be a great Campaign to Detroit in the Spring I shall make Interest to enter our horses if I thought the would be home soon enough youl please write me as soon as you can and what you may stand in nead of as I will send if in my Power Your Compliance with the above Request will much oblige Your Humble Servant ALEXR. BLAINE Pittsburg 2nd Feby. 1776. Addressed:-To Mr. Matthew Elliot Bhawney Town pr. favour of Mr. James Randles [B 185-2, p 542] ACCOUNT OF MATTHEW ELLIOT & COY. Sales of Sundry Fall and Summer Skins received June 24th 1776 and sold for Account of Messrs Matthew Elliot & Coy. vizt 1776 June 24th By Cash for 4941 lb. Fall Skins @ 219 - 679-7-9 By do. 702j Sum Do. @ 3 9 131-12-6 811-0-3 By do. 23 lbs Beavers 15 17-5-0 828-5-3



Page 319


ADHEMAR ST. MARTIN TO LT. GOV. HAMILTON.

319

Charges To Cash paid Carriage from Carlisle to this 21-3-6 To Commission Storage on ~ 828 @ 2J p. ct. 20-14-0 41-17-6 By 20 others @ 10 10-0-0 21 Catt 2 | 2-0-0 798-9-9 [B 185-2, p 547] ADHEMAR ST MARTIN TO LT. GOV. HAMILTON. (Translation.) To Henry Hamilton Esqr Captain of the 15th Regiment Lt. Governor & Superintendant of Detroit &c. &c. &c. SIR, Adhemar St Martin Merchant, takes the Liberty to represent that last Autumn /e put on board the Santeaux at Little Fort Erie, a certain quantity of goods which belonged to him, for his trade both in Detroit & its Dependancies & that by a storm the vessel having been thrown on the shores of Presqu' Isle & could not be got off,jthe captain took the goods ashore & made them as safe as possible from whence the Petitioner would have taken them to Detroit or kept them there untill next navigation, had they not been entirely destroyed by an express order to prevent the enemies of the State making them the means of invading it. This loss will be of great consequence to the Petitioner who is burdened with a numerous family & has large payments to meet which would be out of his power to satisfy if by the clemency of His Majesty, always benificent & favourable to fathers of unfortunate familys of whom you are the representative, the Petitioner is not relieved from so great a loss. But I hope much from your influence with Genl. Carleton, not doubting that upon your examination & report His Excellency will be favourable to the Petitioner which Sir is but justice, and the Petitioner will continue to pray for the glory & prosperity of His Majesty, His Excellency & yourself. DETROIT 10th August 1776. ADHEMAR ST MARTIN Endorsed: Monsr Adhemar's memorial. FB 144, p 2]



Page 320


320

BOUQUET PAPERS.

GEN. ROBERTSON TO GEN. CARLETON. Extract from Major General Robertson's Letter to His Excelly General Carleton vizt "NEW YORK 13th Feby. 1777." "Mr. Samuel Willis has had General Gage's commission some years as Barrack Master at Ilinois, and Abraham Abbey as Barrack Master at Detroit. They appeared as such in all the General Returns. The first has been employed as my Clerk, and the other an old faithful serjt. had leave to go to Ireland for some months; both of them hired proper Deputies. I find from a Letter from Mr. Meyrick, that they are off the List from the time that General Gage went home, I suspect that this arises from their not appearing on the Returns after October 1775. Let me assure you that they are both men of merit, & ruined if turned out of an office. Should this have arose from an undesigned Omission, let me beg you will have the goodness to order the error in the Returns to be explained, and set right in the next. If you meant they should be struck off because not present, suffer me to assure you that they are not in fault, & that their being replaced will be a favor I should receive with gratitude, they are men who have served well, and whom I should be mortified much, if not able by your favor to protect." [B 190, p 2] ACCOUNT OF PAPERS FROM MATTHEW ELLIOT'S TRUNK. I have taken out of Mr. Matthew Elliot's small Trunk in the possession of Mess. Macgregor Macleod and Forsyth, letters & other papers in number eleven which I promise to be. answerable for. No. 1 An Indian Speech 2 A letter from Alex. Blain 3 do from Wm. Wilson 4 do from Ephriam Douglas 5 do. favoured by him to Lancaster 6 do from Ephriam Douglas 7 a receipt for Powder 8 an acct. against united Collonys 9 a pass to trade with the Indians 10 an account 11 a letter to Winston & Canada at Illinois



Page 321


PETITION OF DANIEL MURRAY, AGENT.

321

Detroit 19h day of March 1777 P. Dejean J. P. Witness Present Gregor McGregor Normd. Macleod Wm Forsith Personally appeared before me Phillippe Dejean His Majesty's Justice of the Peace for the District of Detroit Normand McLeod and Grigor McGrigor Merchants of this place who made oath on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God that the above papers (eleven in number) were found in a small Trunk called the property of Matthew Elliot, and likewise nineteen Bills of Continental Money. NORMD. MACLEOD GREGOR MCGREGOR Sworn before me this 31st day of March 1777 P. DEJEAN J. P. This day personally-appeared before me Phillip Dejean His Majesty's Justice of the Peace for the District of Detroit, Michael Hebert, servant to Mathew Elliot who made oath upon the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God, that the said Matthew Elliot told him after his goods were taken by the Seneca Indians, that he would go to Detroit to purchase goods, if he could find any Trust to retrieve his losses and to return in the Spring to the Shawanese Towns. MICHAEL HARBERT Sworn before me the 22nd day of March 1777. P. DEJEAN J. P. JAMES PARKINSON Witness [B 185-2, p 565] PETITION OR DANIEL MURRAY, AGENT. ILLINOIS PT. To His Excellency General Carleton Governor of the Province of Canada etc etc etc residing at Quebec The petition of Daniel Murray Agent for the Contractors Patrick Kennedy & Thomas Bentley all of the village of Kaskaskias in the Country aforesaid merchants, Humbly Sheweth That since Captain Hugh Lord's departure from this country & Mr. De Rocheblave's being vested with the Government, We your humble 41



Page 322


322

h2ALDIMAND PAPERS.

petitioners & His Majesty's most faithful subjects, find to our most bitter grief our liberties trampled upon and common justice in almost all cases refused us, that on our presuming to remonstrate against such injustice the said Mr. De Rocheblave will not listen to us informing us that such are the laws of France which, he orders us to follow telling us he knows no other, refusing the English Laws proclaimed here by Colonel John Wilkins and hitherto followed by his successors to the command that we being the only English Merchants or Inhabitants in this place we take the liberty to represent to your unhappy situation, and lay our grievances before you, hoping from you a speedy and immediate Redress for without which 'twill be impossible for an Englishman to remain in this country as the said Mr. De Rocheblave is daily imposing on us by refusing the appointment of our suits and denying us the justice which by law and equity we have a right to demand at his hands both for the security of our property as well as our persons, neither of which we look upon to be safe under his government, as Englishmen and English Laws are to our great mortification despised by the publie in general and appear to be so by the said Mr. De Rocheblave in particular; That with such Inhabitants as we happen to have any controversy respecting accounts or Demands unavoidable in Business he acts in the first place as Council for such against us and afterwards as a Judge. He one day decides a matter in our favour and immediately issues out a sentence in favor of the opposite party. That contrary to our wise constitution and to the great detriment of the merchant, he acts in the capacity of a Trader, buying and selling goods both wholesale and retail and has been known to make proposals for the purchasing of a cargo (last summer) to a very considerable amount, which he would have affected had his credit been equivalent thereto. Public Advertisements with respect to property he orders in a most arbitrary manner to be torn down which he has been known to do twice in one day. Protest and Appeal from his sentence he pays no regard to, seizing notwithstanding of such for the payment agreeable to his sentence refusing undeniable security. He forbid the trading of liquor to Savages under the severe Penalty of two thousand dollars and those very Savages notwithstanding such orders, being constantly drunk when in the village, upon an enquiry made accused him even to his face of being the person that intoxicated them with Rum or Taffia which they said he barter'd to them for Beaver; Otters etc. Such is his partiality in favor of the French that upon the approach



Page 323


PETITION OF DANIEL MURRAY, AGENT.

323

of savages coming to war against their Enemies last Spring he sent out a party of men under French colours to know the design of their coming. That such partiality is not to be wondered at when we consider that the said Mr. De Rocheblave on this country being taken possession of by the English abandoned his property here and preferred the Spanish government to ours taking the oath of allegiance thereto. That 'tis not within the cognizance of any person in the country so far as we can learn that the said Mr. De Rocheblave has ever been qualified by taking the oaths of allegiance and supremacy previously necessary towards the holding of such an office. That abstracted from all manner of prejudice whatsoever, we do not look upon the said Mr. De Rocheblave from his behaviour at all times and partiality against us on all occasions to be by any means an Englishman's friend having endeavoured to throw aspersions upon the character of some of us without the least foundation (and merely thereby intending to veil his own iniquitous practices) openly couirtenancing known villians in opposition against us and even encouraging the Savages to rob our boats, whose sole motive was trading amongst them in their winter grounds. That Mr. Murray, one of your humble petitioners, acting here as agent for the contractors applied to Mr. De Rocheblave to oblige Mr. Viviat a merchant in this place (who had obtained a certificate from Captain Lord) in the said Murray's name on his the Said Capt. Lord's leaving this implying that he had already bought provisions sufficient for the subsistence of two companies of soldiers for twelve months, to lodge the same according to the said certificate which he hitherto has refused to do and notwithstanding it was farther enforced in consequence of a Lieutenant Governor's coming to Post Vincennes who might have occasion for the same yet the same application was of no effect. We humbly hope that Your Excellency will be kind enough to compassionate our situation and grant us such redress and that in the most speedy manner possible as British subjects have a right to expect at the hands of an English governor and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. Dated at Kaskaskias T BENTLEY. 10th April 1777. [B 185-1, p 2]



Page 324


324

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

THOMAS BENTLEY TO DAN'L MURRAY. MISSILAMAKINAC DEAR SIR 1st Augt. 1777. I hope this will find you on your return from Post Vincent and doubt not but that you will have explained the nature of our complaints against Mr. Rocheblave to Govr. Abbott as you proposed. Little did I think it would have become so very necessary being utterly ignorant of the mischief this man was hatching against me. You will plainly perceive that he has done this in order to get the start of me, thinking by such means to throw discredit on my report. You see what villany the mind of man is capable of. But what indeed may we not expect of a man like him after having taken the oaths of allegiance to the three Kingdoms of France Spain and Great Britain; such a man would not in my mind hesitate on. the arrivals of the Americans to enlist himself under their banner and even to be one of the first to do so. You must know that I am now a prisoner, Rocheblave having accused me of such correspondence with the Americans as occasioned Major de Peyster who commands at this place to put me in custody on my arrival here. I am therefore in consequence thereof confined to the Fort nor am I yet acquainted with the particulars of my accusation. Bonner is I believe my accuser in conjunction with Rocheblave and you well know how they both stand affected towards me, that nothing will be wanting on their parts to compleat my ruin. However I rely entirely on my innocence to extricate me from this dilemma as God Almighty who knows my inmost thoughts and actions knows likewise I do not deserve such treatment. I beg the favor that on receipt of this you will write a Letter to the Governor at Post Vincent desiring he will forward the same to the Governor at Detroit wherein you will please to mention every thing you can recollect which has passed between us on the North American subject & particularly with respect to 18 Barges which went down the Ohio last autumn as you can evidence for me that on the arrival of such news at Kaskaskias, finding that Mr. Rocheblave did not immediately send off an express to give information thereon I mentioned to you that it would be necessary for us to send one in case he did not soon after which he dispatched one himself you must recollect also I often repeated to you how happy we were to be out of the way and in a country where we could act a neutral part. You will know my mind on the subject and how much I abhorred the thought of interfering



Page 325


THOMAS BENTLEY TO DAN'L MURRAY.

325

on either side ever blaming the obstinacy and violence committed on both sides as also how much I wished for the arrival of King's Troops often expressing my surprise that such were not sent to prevent the Americans sending powder etc. up the Mississippi; and that you must recollect to have heard me often repeat that I had rather see a hundred King's Troops arrive than two thousand North Americans. You know the injustice done me by Rocheblave on many occasions which you will please to explain at large as also the cause of our intended complaints against him to General Carleton, and the petition on the subject which we should have sent, had not Kennedy after promising refused to sign it. You were present when he decided the affair of Bonner's note to Bazelle la Chappelle in my favour and you were also present when a few days after he sent Mr. La Chance with a Party of men to seize for the payment notwithstanding I appealed from his Judgement to the Governor who was soon expected at Post Vincent and offer'd security. You likewise know that he refused to'oblige Mr. Viviat to give an account of his transaction with Borner that I might know the value of Borner's note given to Mr. Viviat in my name for fourteen hundred livres payable in Beaver at five livres a Pound which he seized for the payment. You know perfectly well that he set aside my mortgage on Borner's house, which was duly recorded in the Secretary's books, and sold the house for the payment of Sandron's mortgage on the same which was not registered until several months after mine, as also he ordered to be torn down two advertisements which I put up to the public in one day protesting against the sale. Omit not to mention Borner's villany to me and how much he was countenanc'd even afterwards by Rocheblave as also how he countenanc'd Girault in his behaviour permitting him to stay several days in Kaskaskias after I applied to him to oblige him to return to his duty. I am not conscious that any part of my conduct will admit of an ambiguous interpretation and must imagine that 'tis the corn that was taken from Mathews that he wants to make a handle of. some hints have been given me, that he would even insinuate I have supplied gunpowder etc to the Americans. My invoices will shew the quantity of gunpowder I brought up with me Hamilton can prove that I sold 40 guns to Motard in March last and that I left a considerable quantity on my coming away as also what gunpowder I left behind me and the remainder being to, the best of my recollection little more than three hundred weight will shew whether it was too much to be expended for mny winter's trade amongst the savages as well as at Kaskaskias and at



Page 326


326

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Kahokias where in fact I sold the most. I beg you will include at the the same time a copy of my letter left with you wherein I instructed you to clear up the matter about the corn immediately upon the arrival of Capt. Johnson by Mathew and Muckle Murray's affidavits. I do not know if you were privy to Mr. Rocheblave's offering me three hundred weight of gunpowder for sale last autumn if you have knowledge thereof 'twill be right to mention it in your letter. I cannot call to mind whether it was before or after he sold some gunpowder to Mr. Belestre. Hamilton can prove that I left orders that in case the Americans arrived; to hide my goods in trunks which will show I had not the least intention of supporting them, on the contrary Hamilton & Mathews can prove that notwithstanding these Americans sent me orders by the former to give no more orders to the Delawar Indians I have sold thom Powder constantly since in opposition to their orders. Please to include Hamilton and Mathews affidavits in your letter as also Muckle Murray's should be there and when you have finished your letter you will do well to make oath that the contents of such a letter of such a date is a just and true relation of facts. This you will be kind enough to accompany with your letter and of all the affidavits please make a duplicate or even Triplicate for fear of accident. I am extremely concerned to give you this trouble but I am so well convinced of your good will to serve injured innocence, that the nature of my case will sufficiently apologize to you for the same. All I wish is that I may be at liberty immediately to return to Kaskaskias that I may avail myself of such evidence as may be necessary to clear up my character, which you all know I can do without the least difficulty. Should Govr. Johnson be arrived you can easily convince him of how falsely I am accused when Rocheblave's malice will appear in a most conspicuous light to any impartial mind. I know my poor wife will be much afflicted at my situation and you may readily. imagine how much I suffer from such a thought; I beg you will endeavour all in your power to encourage her to keep up her spirits that my affairs may not suffer from other cause, than that which absence alone can cause, no person knows better than herself how innocent I am of every thing that can be laid to my charge, but what is not villany capable of, and more especially place in a man like Rocheblave who does not for (Sic) understanding sufficient to put a gloss upon actions of his own however black and to render criminal such as are most innocently intended in others; however I trust in God that He will release me from my Enemy's hands and that he will



Page 327


DECLARATION OF LT. GOV. HENRY HAMILTON.

327

doubly load him with that infamy which they would so unjustly heap upon me. such being the reward due to their actions I am Dear Sir Your very obliged hble Servt T. B. Mr. Danl Murray at Kaskaskias [B 185-1, p 10] DECLARATION OF LT. GOV. HENRY HAMILTON. Mr. Thomas Bentley of Kaskaskias in the Illinois country having been accused to me by Monsr de Rocheblave commandant of that country of having supported the cause and interest of the Rebels by setting their cause in the most favourable light magnifying their strength resources and connections I have thought proper to order the said Thomas Bentley to be seized at Missilimacinac and his goods and papers sent down to this place. Major Depeyster at my requisition has sent down the said Thomas Bentley a prisoner to this place and has also transmitted some of his papers with other papers delivered into my hands by Mr. Bentley on his arrival are sent down sealed to Edward Wm. Gray Esqr Deputy Sherriff at Montreal. He was taken into custody the twenty first day of July 1777. All of which I certify as also that I do not know of any other deposition or declarations on oath made and taken at Illinoise or else where against the said Thomas Bentley but that the letter which was written to me by Mr. de Rocheblave and which among other particulars mentions Mr. Bentleys having sent.provisions to the Rebels in the mouth of the Ohio was the principal cause of the arrest and detention of the said Mr. Thomas Bentley given under my hand at Detroit. August, 15th 1777 [signed] HENRY HAMILTON Lt. Gov. & Superintd Entered in Recorders office at Detroit the 15th August 1777. Folio 38.. Endorsed: Lt Gov. Hamiltons declaration concerning Mr Bentley 15 Augret 1777. [B 185-1, p 17]



Page 328


328

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

THOMAS BENTLEY'S STATEMENT. Whereas I Thomas Bentley of the Village of Kaskaskias in the Illinois Country, Merchant, stand accused of having sent corn or other provisions to assist the American Boat coming up from New Orleans last Spring loaded as was said with gunpowder etc or of entertaining a criminal correspondence with the Americans or some of their party or parties interested in their present unhappy dispute and whereas eighteen bags of corn were taken by force by one Wm Quin who said he was captain of such boat; from James Mathews one of my clerks who was trading the same with the Delaware Indians at or near the mouth of the Ohio, which alone can have given rise to such a report; I do in consequence thereof declare that the following circumstances relative thereto are the real truth vizt. That such corn was never intended by me to be sold, traded or delivered to any American Boat loaded with ammunition whatsoever but to the Delaware Indians only, having on the contrary given directions to avoid the American's Boat by running up some river, untill they had passed. That I had followed this trade of sending down provisions ever since the beginning of last summer and that these eighteen bags of corn were a part of the third or fourth cargo of provisions I cannot justly recollect which that I had already sent down to the Delaware trade & such of the white peop e who come to the Illinois and fit themselves for hunting in that nei, ourhood m t of whom were in my debt and that the loss of the corn a gr iment to me as it obliges my clerk to come to Kaskaskiasr a supply of that article and leave his Indian Debts behind him no part of which I had received on my coming away the middle of May last. That 'tis a common trade both from Kaskaskias and Post Vincent to send down Corn, Flour etc to the Savages wintering in that neighborhood and that there was one or two Boats from Post Vincent as my clerk informed me trading with the Delawares in a like manner at the same place where he was and that when the said James Mathews came to Kaskaskias and informed me of their having taken this corn I was very angry with him for having suffered them to take it at the same time blaming him for not having got out of their way; when he informed me that he was obliged to give it not being strong enough to resist them and that they pass'd themselves as a party of Hunters untill they had got him into their power. That I only brought six hundred weight of gunpowder with me last summer from New Orleans with two hundred and odd guns that I left behind and brought with



Page 329


THOMAS BENTLEY'S STATEMENT.

329

me upon this voyage very nearly one half of my gunpowder and the other half was sold to Indians at my different stores at Kaskaskias, Post Vincent and Kahokias. That a great part of my guns remain still unsold at Kaskaskias, and that the greatest part of what I did sell was to Spanish Subjects at Paincour and Miseve'. That I arrived from New Orleans the 19th July 1776 since which I had not made any purchase of either guns or gunpowder, Mr. De Rocheblave himself having offered me three hundred weight of gunpowder for sale at a Dollar per pound which I refused the buying of. That at the time of the news arriving that two Barges were gone down to bring ammunition, I proposed to Mr. Daniel Murray, agent for the contractors that we should send off an Express to give information thereof that a stop might be put thereto. That I have not received any letter from any person whatsoever on the continent of America to the northward of Pensacola during the last two years to my knowledge or held any kind of correspondence or had any dealings whatsoever either directly or indirectly with any of His Majesty's enemy's or their Adherents knowing them to be so. That Mr. De Rocheblave having spread the report of my having sent this corn on purpose for the Americans before my coming away I left a letter with the before mentioned Mr. Murray requesting that he would on the arrival of Mr. Johnson (who tis said is appointed governor of the Illinois Country) have the deposition of Mathews and others taken in order to clear me from the infamy of such a Report. Now I do most sincerely and solemnly believe that these aspersions thrown upon my character, are nothing but the effects' of the said Mr. De Rocheblave's malice in order to prevent Gov' Carleton or any other Governor or commanding officer to whom I might apply for redress from paying due attention to my complaints against him for the various acts of injustice which he has done me since my arrival last from New Orleans, some of which I will here ennumerate with such circumstances as are necessary to show the part which Mr. De Rocheblave acted and particularly as regards myself: A short time after my arrival from New Orleans he made many different proposals to me for the purchasing of part of my cargo and at length of the whole which would have amounted to a very considerable sum. I waved the matter for a variety of reasons; finding I would not dispose of my cargo to him he employ'd others to try to make the purchase from me and he was as they informed me, to be connected with him under the Rose. He issued out a sentence to make me pay fifty dollars on an accusation laid against William Hamilton one of my clerks for having given a bottle of liquor to an Indian at a certain time mentioned 42

K*



Page 330


330

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

and that a person of the name of Muckle Murray was said to be present Hamilton swore positively that it was false and Muckle Murray likewise, as also that if he had done so it was in opposition to my orders, nevertheless he would persist that I should pay. Notwithstanding his repeated orders against giving liquor to the savages, they were continually drunk when in the village which ocasioned me to enquire who it was that sold the liquor to them when the Savages themselves inform'd me it was Mr. De Rocheblave who traded it to them in the night for Beaver and other Skins and forbid their coming to him in the day time telling them that so long as they said nothing about the matter he would constantly supply them. This story being rumoured abroad he called the Indians to account about it (two of them) when the one accused him of it to his face and the other said that he said so out of a Joke for which he put them both in Irons, and being enraged still more against me on that account threaten'd to make me pay the fine double. One Borner who had acted as clerk and attorney to me in my absence at New Orleans gave a note of hand in my name to Mr. Viviat a merchant in the place for. fourteen hundred and odd livres payable in Beaver at five livres the pouhd on my arrival from New Orleans Borner at my request put up an advertisement to the public signifying that all such to whom he had given such notes, bons etc of any kind to present the same immediately. Mr. Viviat never presented the note until a long time afterwards I believe near three months and long after Borner was dismissed my service. I told him I would pay it if he would prove the value received and give me a particular account of all his Transactions with the said Borner in my absence. Mr. Viviat positively refused to tell me on what account the note was given as also to render me any account of his transactions with Borner as my-clerk. I petition'd Mr. De Rocheblave at two or three different times to oblige Mr. Viviat to render me such an account setting forth that I had reasons to suspect that the note was unjustly given by Borner and unjustly received on the part of Viviat. Yet he took no notice of my petition but seized the Bearer for the payment. This same Borner gave a note of hand likewise in my name at a time I was upon the spot to Bazille la Chappelle for eighteen hundred & odd pounds of flour in vain I represented to him that no man had a right to give a note of hand in my name when I was present myself yet notwithstanding that he would not oblige Borner to pay it, who was then in the place but seiz'd my flour for the amount, when but a very few days before in the presence of Mr. Murray he acquitted me from the note apologizing for his having given me so



Page 331


THOMAS BENTLEY'S PETITION.

331

much trouble about it, I protested and appeal'd from both his sentences and even offer'd security all which he paid no regard to. I had a mortgage upon a house to a much greater amount than the value of such house, which mortgage I had record'd in the office according to Colonel Wilkin's public orders. It appeared some time afterwards one Sandron had likewise a mortgage and of a prior date but had never been register'd. He set my mortgage aside & ordered the house to be sold for the payment of Sandron's mortgage I protested against the sale by a public advertisement on the Church Doors, which was torn down by his orders twice the same day. I had a considerable account against the said Mr. De Rocheblave and after waiting a long time for the payment he produced me an account wherein he charged me amongst other articles so much for Passports and having acted as a Justice of Peace in marrying me, he made me pay fifty livres for having performed the ceremony. I do hereby declare that the foregoing relation is in every respect just and true to the best of my knowledge and belief making oath thereon on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God who knows the hearts and minds of men knows at the same time I am innocent of what is laid at my charge. Missilimacinac the 1st of August 1777. T. BENTLEY. Juri devant moi J. B" Campau le 5~ Avust 1777. Sworn before me Philip Dejean Justice of the Peace for the district of Detroit this 15th day of August 1777. P. DEJEAN T. B. J. P. No. 5. [B 185-1, p 19] THOMAS BENTLEYS PETITION. His Excellency Sir Guy Carleton, Knight of the Bath, Captain General & Governor in Chief of Quebec; General and Commander in Chief of His Majesty's forces in the said Province and Frontiers thereof etc. etc. etc. The Petition of Thomas Bentley Humbly Sheweth. That your petitioner left the Illinois Country the 24h of May last with Mr. De Rocheblaves passport to go to Missilimacinac where he arriv'd after a very tedious and dangerous passage on the 21st of July



Page 332


332

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

when immediately on his landing his effects were seized by Major De Peyster and himself imprisoned. That on demanding the cause he was answered that it was by orders of Lieutenant Governor Hamilton and that he must go to Detroit where his accusers were. That he obtained permission from Major De Peyster (upon finding security to be answerable for the amount to the Crown) to sell his Furs etc. That so restricted he lost on the article of Beaver only upwards of one hundred and fifty pounds sterling having been offered so much more by another person who could not give the security required. That on his arrival at Detroit he demanded to know from Mr. Hamilton the cause of his imprisonment who inform'd him it was in consequence of a letter from Mr. De Rocheblave but that there was not to his knowledge any deposition to support his charge That upon his expostulating with Mr. Hamilton upon the propriety of such conduct he informed the petitioner. "That "he was above the law acknowledging that what he was doing was "illegal that no doubt he made himself liable to a prosecution but that "it would not be in his power to make any retaliation as he had "nothing to lose and moreover that Government must support him in "4whatever he did." That the petitioner beg'd permission to return from thence to the Illinois offering securing for his appearance if he did not clear the matter up, but all in vain. That his principal reason for undertaking so irksome & perilous a voyage was in order to secure a remittance to his friends Mess" Walker, Dawson & Co. and others in London to whom he is indebted & who are gentlemen of known credit and well establish'd reputation. That the detention of his person & property is equally injurious to them as to himself thereby unhappily depriving him of the nmeans of satisfying his creditors. That he has been very ill treated by Mr. De Rocheblave at the Illinois by his oppressive & tyrannical measures the said De Rocheblave having seiz'd his effects to a considerable amount refusing security for standing a fair Trial; That secure in his innocence he left the Illinois unprovided for any defence and without settling his affairs in such a manner as to admit of his absence from that country where his affairs are considerable and are now in a state of abandon and will be the more so the longer he is detain'd having left no person behind him capable of transacting his business That he has a recent example of the fatality of his absence from that country since its being abandon'd by Government as during an absence last year to West Florida of not quite four months he was wronged of about eight thousand Dollars. That he wAs never in any



Page 333


(

SALARIES OF OFFICERS IN NAVAL ARMAMENTS. 333 of the Colonies now in Rebellion, nor is he to his knowledge acquainted with a single person amongst them. That confident of his innocence and not conscious of having transgress'd the Law of this country either in word or deed hopes your Excellency will be pleased to call such an immediate enquiry into the matter that in Justice to himself, family & friends his innocence may be as conspicuous as has been his accusation. That should you not deem such an enquiry necessary he is ready of himself & by his friends to give such security as may be required not only for his future conduct but also for his appearance whenever your Excellency thinks proper to have a further eclaiscissement. That your petitioner in full reliance on that Justice Impartiality and humanity which have ever so Justly distinguished your character humbly flatters himself your Excellency will be most graciously pleased to compassionate his distresses & permit his immediate return to his wife and family and your petitioner as in duty bound will ever pray. Montreal the 6h October 1777 T. BENTLEY. Endorsed-4-6-Petition of Mr. Bentley sent Prisoner on suspicion of being disaffected to Government to Michiimackinac 6h Oct 1777. [B 185-1, p 27] SALARIES OF OFFICERS IN NAVAL ARMAMENTS. Whereas His Majestys service has required the establishment of a Naval Armament upon the Lakes, Ontario, Huron, Erie & Michigan I have accordingly by Commission under my hand & seal appointed officers to serve in the several vessels employed therein, for the reward & encouragement of whom I have thought proper to fix their pay at the rates as follows vizt To the officer appointed by Commissioner L. S. D to command on the Lakes aforesaid per 0-15-0 diem in Sterling money J To Masters & Commanders in the Naval 0-10-0 Armament To Lieutenants appointed by Commission' under the commander in Chief to command 0-6-0 Vessels To first Lieutenants 0-4-6 To second Lieutenants 0-3-6 And I do direct that you pay to the officers serving in the Naval Armament aforesaid according to their ranks their Pay as it shall



Page 334


334

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

accrue from the dates of their several commissions at the rates aforesaid drawing upon me from time to time for the amount as in cases of other Incidental Disbursements at the Posts under your command. Given under my hand at Quebec this 21st day of October 1777. (signed) (G. C.) [B 222, p 15] LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL. NIAGARA Nov 10th 1777. No 1 To the Adjut General SIR I have drawn the following bills this day upon His Exellency Sir Guy Carleton viz. at 20 days sight in favour of Mr. Pollard for sundry furnished Indians as per account the sum of ~ 2442-4-6j Captain Robinsons and Lieut Harows Expences to Quebec and charged in the last of these accounts which I hope will meet with His Excellency's approbation. This letter I presume will finish our correspondence for some time & I am sorry to say attended with so much expence to Government, at the same time be assured I most sincerely wish never to have any thing to do in money matters at this Post, for the immense sums drawn for this year cannot astonish you more than they have me. By this opportunity I send' down six prisoners with Serjt Turney of the King's Regmt. who is strongly recommended for his bravery & good conduct. Governor Hamilton writes me word that the Merchants at Detroit have come to an agreement to build a wharf at Fort Schlosser & a Store at the water's edge 60 feet by 30 also another of the same dimentions at the Landing Place which certainly will be attended with good consequences to the service as well as to the Trade if His Excellency should think propre to approve of this undertaking accept my best acknowledgements for your favours & believe me &c. [signed] MASON BOLTON. [B 96-1, p 180]



Page 335


SLT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL. 335

LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO THE ADJUTANT GENERAL. NIAGARA December 14th No 3 1777 To the Adjutant General SIR, Captain La Motte arrived here the 12th instant & has brought very interesting news that General Howe had taken Philadelphia & the Rebels have sustained an incredible loss and also by a forceA march of the Generals' Washington had been defeated with 11,000 Rebels killed wounded & Prisoners, the particulars of which as well as the expedition of the Indians about Detroit. I beg leave to refer you to Captain Lernoult and Governor Hamilton as a gentleman, a modest man & one who has shown great zeal for the King's service. Three Delawares came here the 14th and also report Washington being killed & his army totally routed. I had a meeting of the Chiefs belonging to the six Nations, about an hour after the Express arrived, and acquainted them with the news they seemed extremely pleased and have been in good temper since their arrival. The number of savages here amount to two thousands three hundred. The accounts of the unfortunate affair that happened to General Burgoyne's Army reached this place a considerable time before the Chiefs assembled here, which put it out of Colonel Butler's power to execute what was intended. I expect a number of the Indians will leave this to morrow when they are gone we are to have a meeting of the Sachems and warriors in order to consult on matters of importance they have all received presents, & I have promised to send Rum to their vilages as we could not enter upon business had any been served out which they are perfectly satisfied with. In Justice to Colonel Butler I must observe he has fully answered the favourable character I had received of him and as he writes by this opportunity refer you to his Letters for further particulars in regard to our Transaction here, you may judge what a quantity of provisions, has been consumed by the number of savages as mentioned above however I have the pleasure to inform you that Mr. McComb has sent the felicity (armed & manned) with Provisions, the other vessels wanting repair the account of the amount you have enclosed but notwithstanding I hope a large quantity will be sent as early as possible next year, I wish the Post of Machilimackinac may not be distressed, as I understand the Angelica was obliged to return to Detroit loosing one of her sailors & had a narrow escape of the whole perishing by the violence of a



Page 336


336

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

snow storm this shews how essentially necessary its to send good flour to these posts which has not been done this year, probably owing to some damage it might have received by sending it such a distance by water &c. You will be pleased to inform His Excellency that Captain Lernoult has taken the command at Detroit & from the Letters I received from him of Governor Hamilton, there is not the least doubt but the King's service will be carried on with the greatest propriety. Captain Thompson informs me he intends returning in the Spring & that a small sloop is building for a packet boat. The Carpenters (I expected) not coming here has obliged me to detain one who was going to Detroit at 10s. per day otherwise the Haldimand could not be impaired. I mentioned in my last the state of this Fort & have now men employed in preparing materials for the Spring, for notwithstanding the present good disposition of the Indians it is impossible to say how long it may continue, those I fancy who have more presents provisions & rum will be best able to determine. The detachment arrived here the 30h of November, & I am informed every thing was taken of Deer Island. This place is quite lumbered with Merchants goods which the badness of the roads prevented Mr. Stedman from taking over the carrying place, the vessels are all laid up for the winter with orders what the masters are to do in case the enemy move this way in the Spring. It is impossible to be concise about these affairs which I hope will apologise for the length of this Letter. Believe me &c [signed] MASON BOLTON. P. S. Notwithstanding I sent you the monthly returns of the last vessel that left this for Deer Island for fear of accidents I now enclose you a state of the upper Posts, by which you see that Captain MoLipesson has Joined this Garrison there is one appointed to the charge of the Naval Stores, please inform me what His Excellency will be pleased to allow him. DECEMBER 15th. Since I wrote the above I have seen the master of the Felicity who informs me his vessel is employed in the King's service, but as Captain Lernoult, Governor Hamilton. & Capt Grant have never mentioned this affair on their Letters to me, I must supose it is a mistake otherwise keeping her five months laid up would make the provisions sent here exclusive of the enclosed account cost government a considerable sum.



Page 337


TRADE IN THE LAKE SUPERIOR COUNTRY IN 1778.

337

* I believe she may be by all accounts a propre vessel for the Lakes should His Excellency think propre to employ her, at any rate she is as well here as at Detroit, as we have sufficient merchants goods to load her in the Spring, which will answer their purpose. I should have wrote by this opportunity to the General but I am so hurried & donfused besides being much out of order, that I have scarce a moment to myself of which I request you'll inform him & also of the contents of this Letter Names of the Indian Chiefs &c. here. Scanderactic Showetong Sciawa Scagowis & Joseph who has been of great service & deserves every favour I can shew him. There are several others but Col. Butler can best inform you of their names. General Clinton I hear has returned to New York. [signed] M. B. DECEMBER 16h The number of savages are not gone this- day as I expected they are extremely slow in their motions & it blows too hard for Captain La Motte to attempt the Lakes. The Net I bought has been of great service particularly at this time, as the white fish are taken in great numbers.* [B 96-1, p 184] 9 TRADE IN THE LAKE SUPERIOR COUNTRY IN 1778. Memorandum for His Excellency Sir Guy Carleton Knight of the Bath, Governor and Captain General of the Province of Quebec. The Trade carried on to the Great Portage at the West end of Lake Superior and the interior parts of that country is now become an object of considerable note to this Province, the annual returns falling little short of ~40,000 Sterling, and it employs near five hundred persons, who for ab6ut a month in the summer season, have a general rendevouz at the Portage, and for the refreshing and comforting those who are employed in the more distant voyages the Traders from hence have built tolerable Houses; and in order to cover them from any insult from the numerous savage Tribes, who resort there during that time, have made stockades around them. Amongst so great a number of people not the most moral or enlight43



Page 338


338

3HALDIMAND PAPERS.

ened it is easy to conceive that there must infallibly be Jarring & disputes, more particularly as many separate interests are to be served & altho it may not be practicable to attempt correcting all the abuses in that Trade, yet by pointing out some of the principle difficulties under which the honest Trader labours Your Excellency may the more properly authorize the officer whom you intend sending to that Post to prevent the evil from increasing. 1. By Recommending & insisting strongly with the Savages that they do not attempt to stop any Traders from passing on their lands. 2. That it be published before the Traders & their servants that the latter must strictly conform to their agreements which should absolutely be in writing or printed & before witnesses if possible, as many disputes arise from want of order in this particular. 3. It has ever been customary that a canoe man who falls indebted to his master at the end of his voyage does (if in health) work out the debt by further service with the same master; or if he agrees with another, that other to pay the debt in furrs or money as was his wages immediately. 4th. An infamous custom has of late been practiced by some of engaging the men of other Trades, whilst in actual service & before their time was out, such agreements should be declared null and void and any credit given on such faith be lost to the Trader. 5th. It has been an invariable custom and seems founded on equity, that the last out fitter should be the first paid, after which the other creditors whether of two or twenty yeaOs ought to share alike. Where an obstinate debtor refuses to give reasonable satisfaction he should be sent down to this part of the Province and any writt from the Courts.of Justice should be enforced by the officer commanding-which will.prevent absconding Debtors (who are seldom the best of men) from.bhcoming a nuisance in that Country. 6th. In disputes between the Trader and Canoe man the officer ought to be the sole Judge because the agreements are so explicit if properly made out, that by referring to them the Decision is plain but between 'Trader & Trader two or four with the officer, so as to give him the *casting voice will be perhaps more eligible. 7th. The Indians of that country, were formerly used to a commanding officer in the most distant parts, consequently some show and parade such as hoisting colors & firing guns at their arrival at the Posts, as also giving colours and other marks of distinction since none have gone to that country, the Traders in their own defence, have acted a similar part; but now such practice ought to cease, and presenting medals, above all other things to be at an end.



Page 339


TRANSPORTATION OF GOODS IN 1768.

339

A few from the commanding officer will be of service. The Traders should be allowed the liberty of sending Belts to the Savages (not of wampum) for the purposes of their trade only. It would be well to make known at the Portage that Canoe men who have run away from their masters, will not for that reason be punished, provided they return in one year from amongst the savages, where they become most dangerous, but if afterwards laid hold of to be treated most severely. The different Councils held betwixt the Savages, decisions between the Traders &c. should be transmitted annually to His Excellency the governor & a copy thereof remaining at Michilimakinac to be put into the hands of the officer who may be detatched on that business, may be of service. Part of the Presents given to the Indians (and they are considerable) was by the Traders at so much pr Canoe, going into the country the Belts always in name of their great Father the King & the goods in name of the Traders. The tenth of June.is the latest the officer shoutd leave Mich-nke & he may be back in all August a very few soldiers only will be wanted. When the officer has fixed on a proper place for erecting a little Fort, The Traders ought to furnish each his part of the Wood for building, or if the hurry of business, should prevent it from being done the first year, the Trader who remains at Portage in winter can do it, the others paying their Part. Endorsed:-Memorandum concerning the Trade to the great Portage at the west end of:Lake Superior 20th of January 1778 [B 99, p 1] TRANSPORTATION OF GOODS TO THE UPPER COUNTRY IN 1778. Memorandum for His Excellency Sir Guy Carleton Knight of the Bath Captain General Governor of the Province of Quebec &c. &c One of the large vessels on Lake Ontario will be wanted to take the\ Merchants goods from the Port of Oswegatchie, which have been there since last summer & fall to Niagara. Some part of the goods that were up as far as Deer Island being brought back to Lachine it will be of great service to the owner, Mr. Askin, if the sloop Caldwell was ordered to Oswegatchie, then to take them on board-they will be at that. Port by the 10th of May at latest, and if the service of government could permit, either Mr. Askins' own vessel to take his effects on board on Lake Erie or that one belonging to the Crown could be spared for Michilimakinac to carry up the



Page 340


340

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Merchandise for that Port, it would facilitate the Trade most1 considerably. The Trade to the North West depending much on the supply's of Provisions from Detroit. It will be probably very requisite that the small vessel belonging to iNr. Askin, which has hitherto been allowed to sail between that Government and Michilimakniac, should be solicited, in order to render that business the more secure, and prevent a disappointment in the most necessary article. It always was customary that at the carrying Place of Niagara or any other Post when the Merchants effects were forwarded by order from the officers of the Army, they should go on in rotation as they have arrived, and it seems to be the most just and equitable method, for otherwise an Individual under the sanction of having the presents for the Savages to supply, or necessary for the Troops, might preclude others, & almost monopolize the whole Trade, to which Your Excellency's Passport gives every one who is worthy of it and receives it the same right and title. Endorsed: Memorandum about the Trade to the Upper Country 20th Jany. 1778 [B 99, p 5] MAJOR JOHN BUTLER TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. No. 4 1 From Major Butler To Genl. HaldimandJ NIAGARA 2 d february 1778 SIR In my last to Your Excellency of the 14th ulto. I did myself the honor of acquainting you with the favourable event of our conferences with the Indians the particulars of which I now transmit to you. Your Excellency will perceive from their own sentiments the reasons they have for not alarming the rebels this winter on the Frontiers of the Province of New York, which by certain accounts they have from their spies they find are too well guarded by the prudent measures of Mr. Gates in cantoning a considerable part of his army, in those parts most exposed to be attacked with any prospect of success, particularly at a season when they could not retreat without a certainty of being pursued by a force to great for them to contend with. This cautious measure they hope will deceive the Rebels and divert their attention in the Spring from that Quarter where they intend to make a very formidable Incurtion with their whole collected force into the frontiers



Page 341


MAJOR JOHN BUTLER TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. 311,of New York & glut that revenge they so impatiently wish for, for the loss of so many of their men near port Stanwix. Since the conclusion of the Council I have the strongest assurances of the fidelity of the Senecas & Cayugas who are the leading people of the six Nations, upon the first report of an intended incursion into their country by the Rebels from the Susquehanna they have unanimously resolved to defend themselves with that spirit & obstinacy for which they are remarkable, & also to retaliate, as soon as the season of the year will permit. To strengthen their resolution they have had recourse to some superstitious rites which has often produced Effects upon a fierce & Barbarous People. But what gives me most satisfaction is the pleasure I have to inform your Excellency that upon receiving a Belt of Invitation from Shuyer to attend a council with the Rebels and the Indians still adhering to.them at Johnstone the 17th instant. The chief of the Senecas rejected the invitation & sent back the Belt telling me the messengers who were in Oneida & a Tuscarora that they had no ears to hear any messages from them, neither would they nor any of their people attend their calls, adding that the blood of their people was still reeking which he was the occasion of spilling, however to know the result of this -Council, they are determined to have spies amongst them, when it is ended I shall faithfully transmit to your Excellency all the particulars. The request made to your Excellency by the Indian chiefs in Quebec they frequently renewed in Council to Colonel Bolton & myself namely the establishing a Post at Ontario, the reasons they gave are many, by;so doing they say the King's Troops have an easy entrance into the Country of the six Nations which if not done, they think the Rebels will sieze upon 'it themselves as they apprehend the meeting at Johnstown is called to sound the dispositions of the Indians upon that head -that Ontario being in possession of the Kings Troops would effectually prevent the rebels from building vessels on the Lake and at the same time put a stop to' any designs that may have formed against this post That it would afford a safe refuge to their women & children, in case their attachment to the King should bring their Army into their country into such numbers as they (if unassisted) would be too weak to oppose. They also observe that the' fidelity of the Onondagos & Tuscaroras who from their vicinity to the Rebels are more exposed, & therefore not so firm as if their situation was more secure would by that means be effectually secured, for these reasons and others the principal men of the Senecas & Cayugas have warmly requested the taking possession of that Post.



Page 342


342

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

My duty led me to make Colonel Bolton fully acquainted with their urgent request & at the same time to transmit them to Your Excellency. Mr. Joseph Brant with about 30 Mohawks have a few days ago set out for the Indian Countries with a view of being near, in case the Enemy should put their threats of entering into the Indian Country into execution. The Indians have their spies out all along their Frontiers to discover if the rebels are assembling. I have wrote and sent messages to the chiefs to know if any assistance with as many rangers as I have would be wanted before the return of those People, whom they have sent out, not thinking it prudent to make any motions towards the inhabitants till Spring unless the Indians should be in danger of being attacked for those reasons given by Siungerackta in the name of the whole nations in his last answer. I hope & wish Mr. Brants attempt may not bring upon them those consequences they seem to be aware off. Mr. Brant who is I believe known to your Excellency & very deserving of the character' of an active and intelligent man & very willing to do every thing in his power for the public good having represented that he has been employed two years past without any allowance & out of hopes of receiving any reward for his past services from Col. Guy Johnson has desired me to lay his situation before your Excellency praying that you would allow him some certain pay for his future support, I humbly hope your Excellency would be pleased to attend to his request as he is very deserving of your favour. The Indians of the Six Nations & those from the westward have exerted themselves in laying waste the Country most exposed to them from the east branch of the Susquehanna to the Kiskismenitas Creek upon the Ohio & from thence down to Kankawa River an extent of many hundred miles is now nothing but an heap of ashes such of those miserable people as have escaped have taken refuge in small forts. Affairs appears to be now growing desperate about Fort Pitt a number of those People having sent a Deputation to the six nations requesting a passage through their Country received for answer that their country was always free & open to the King's good subjects being only shut against rebels & that they might pass when they pleased they are said to be about 200 in number & may be expected here or at Detroit early in the Spring. I have now given your Excellency a full detail of every thing relative



Page 343


I

LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO. SIR GUY CARLETON. 343 to His Majesty's interest amongst his Indian Allies & have the greatest hopes it may be attended with the desired success. I have the honor &c [signed] JOHN BUTLER [B 96-1, p 117] LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO SIR GUY CARLETON. NIAGARA Feby 4th 1778 SIR I have also received a letter from Captain Grant, who informs me there are many artificers & Labourers employed in the Naval Dept at Detroit, and that with the consent & approbation of Govr Hamilton he would be glad to know whether he should bring these People's accounts with the contingencies, at thq same time he brings the officers & Sailors accounts or if the Gov' should draw as these services occur under his eyes. For my part Sir, I must own I realy wish to have as little to do in money matters as possible, particularly when it is not in my power to be a Judge of them, besides these accounts are prior to the order Your Excellency honored me with concerning the Naval Department, & therefore wish the Lieut Governor may be allowed to settle the accounts and draw for the money hereafter should you think proper Capt. Lernoult (who is now at Detroit) can very easily assist in the management of these Naval affairs, a Letter I received by this Express gives me hopes that Major De Peyster will not be distressed for Provisions, notwithstanding Lieut Bennett could not take up the supply he wanted. I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Your Excellency's Most obedient and obliged Humble Servant MASON BOLTON. [B 100, p 14]



Page 344


Muster Rll of officers, Carpenters, Blacksmiths &c. employed in His Majesty's Ship yard at Detroit from 29th December 1777 to the 24h ' of April 1778 both days inclusive.



Mene Names

Rank

Pay ~ S

D

Observations

Mens Names

Rank

Pay ~ |

D

Observations '

Zichariah Thompson....... Richard Cornwall...... John Shipboy........-....---------.. James Bonnett............ Samuel Young.....-------....... Samuel Eddy.---------------- Michael Arinon.---....-.. John Vanzant --------.. Joseph Arnen..-........... Fransway Griffith........... Pratis Fortune.---...--.. Baptiste Leblan-----............. "Charles Lamarch..-........ Joseph B julet--............. Baptist Shiverful...-........ Jean Bte Croal.-----. --- John Bte Govemon.......... Baptiste Rainvill.........-.. Amos Ainsley............... Jacob Bogard............... Johnathan Michmoro.......



Inspector -----..... Master Builder-.... Storekeeper & Clerk of the Check Foreman of Yard..Carpenter-.......... ------------------- -- -- --- - -- - - - - -- --------------------

100 10 10 10 8 12..._. _.

10 12 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 6 4 8 6

Ster pr Day Ster pr year N. Y. Cur. pr day Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Month Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Day Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Month Ditto pr Day

Baptist Montreal.------------ Baptist Tremblay..........--- Joseph Dimarie-...........-- Peir Minar.................. Fransway Camperat Senr _... Fransway Camperat Jun.... John N. Camperat-......... Joseph Camperat.....-...... Amos Lessen................Joseph Gouvemon.......... Fransway Gouvemon........ David Fulerton.............. Hugh Cortney...............Thomas Barns.............. George Beaker-...........--- William Perry............-- Henry Baker................

1 ---.- ----------- Discharged...... ------............. -Sawyers.....-... Ditto..-......... S.................. -------------- ---------------- -Black-..-.-- J smiths-........... SLabourers cutJ ting firewood.... Coal wood & burning Coal

8 8 8

9 4 4 4 4 4 4 4

8 8 8 8 4 8 16

N. Y. Cur pr day ditto pr ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Month Ditto pr Day Ditto pr Month Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto Ditto pr Ditto

z~ PCi

Discharged........ Ditto..---............-------- Ditto.............. -------------------- --------------------



I do certify the above is a true muster and their pay set opposite their names. [B 144, p 50]

ZACK THOMPSON



Page 345


M-onthly Return of the different Posts upon the Lakes & Gai-risoned by- the Kings'(or 8th) 1~egt of Foot 1st May'i1778.



H

Officer commanding

Post)p Detroit Michilimacc

Officers Present Commission staff P4 0 w 0Co - 0 A;0 9 0 0 0 0 ~ 0 ~ ~ 00p + 143---- ---- -------- ----- 1. 3---------- 1

0D W 8 4

4) OD

Effective Rank & File 00 4a 00.gg ~0 ~ 0 d 0Ca 5 P4 0. 102 6 --- 2..... 53 1 1.......

00 110 -55

(:apt. Lernoult Major De Peyster









Artillery 0 0 5 0 4, 9 0 0 00 02

FRANS LE MAISTRE Depy Adjt Geni.' N. B. Major De Peyster has received directions to send a Subaltern to the Grand Portage to inspect into the situation of the place and to keep order and regularity amongy th6 Indians.

M 0

De-troit bMichulimacinac [B 173, p 16]



Page 346


346

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO CAPT. JAMES ANDREWS. SIR His Excellency the Commander in chief in his letter to me directed of the 23rd October 1777 informs that he has appointed Captain Grant to be Commanding officer of the Naval Department upon the lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron & Michigan, and that Mr. Andrews who is the next officer shou'd command on Lake Ontario until you find the service require his being otherwise disposed in pursuance of the above order and by virtue of the power and authority in me vested I do hereby appoint you to be the commander of His Majesty's Snow Haldimand and to command the Naval Department on Lake Ontario. You are therefore carefully and dilligently to discharge the duty thereof and all officers and Seamen artificers and others employed in the Naval Department on Lake Ontario are hereby commanded to obey you as such, and you are to observe and follow all such orders & Directions as you shall from time to time receive from the commander in Chief, Officer commanding at this post or Officer commanding the naval armament upon the Lakes or any other your Superior Officers according to the Rules and discipline of War. In pursuance of the Trust hereby reposed in you. [signed] MASON BOLTON Lt Col Comm' of Niagara &c To Captain James Andrews commanding the Snow Haldimand [B 141, p 2] (May 25 1778) SAM FLEMING TO NATHANIEL DAY. DETROIT SIR 4h June 1778 I was Honoured with yours of the 20th January, as the vessel is ordered to sail in a few hours. I have several accounts yet unsettled, I can only send the Abstract of Issues and a general Acct. of Provisions rec ' forwarded, Issued &c, from 25h June to 24h December 1777; The Monthly Return according to the new form, to commence the 25h Decem' shall be made out as satisfactory as possible, but the various modes of issuing to the same corps in one month according to their exigencies & Provisions on hand wlll render it difficult; I am glad the Provisions for the different Posts for the future are to be sent in a regular manner; An Invoice of the different Packages, according to their numbers will facilitate Business much. Lieut Gov' Hamilton drew for my pay and disbursements the 24th Dec' 1777 and is paid;



Page 347


THOMAS BENTLEY'S MEMORIAL.

347

you order that the seamen are to be victualled with the same Ration as the Troops, I beg leave to observe that they have long had a Ration & a half and a Pint of Rum pr day by written order of Lieut Governor Hamilton, which has been approved of by His Excellency General Sir Guy Carleton: The Provisions -purchased from 25th Dec to this date are fresh mostly for Indians; it is their custom in time of war to make Feasts; we have not yet received any of this years supply but am in hopes some part of it will soon arrive I am with all possible respect Sir Your most obedient most Humble Servant Nathaniel Day Esqr [signed] SAM FLEMING Endorsed:-[CopyJ Letter from Mr Fleming Asst Commy. at Detroit to Commissary Genl Day, enclosed in the Letter of the 6h Jany 1779. Rec d 9h [B 191, p 1] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO SIR. GUY CARLETON. QUEBEC 25th July 1778. SIR, Several Bills of Exchange drawn from Detroit amounting to ~30298.. 7.. 5~ York Currency, for expenses incurred before my arrival in the Province, having been presented to me for Payment, I am to request your giving me your opinion thereupon; and whether you advise my discharging them. I am with the greatest Regard & Esteem [signed] Sir &c General Sir Guy Carleton FRED. HALDIMAND* K. B. Endorsed;-Copy of a Letter from General Haldimand to Sir Gay Carleton dated 25th July, & transmitted to Secy. Robinson of the Treasury 28h of said month, 1778. Ent d in the Letter Book to the Treasury. [B 147, p 18] THOMAS BENTLEYS MEMORIAL. To His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Captain General and Governor in Chief of the province of Quebec general and commander in Chief of His Majesty's forces in the said province and the frontiers thereof etc. etc. etc. The Petition of Thomas Bentley Humbly Sheweth, That your Petitioner left the Illinois Country in May 1777 with a



Page 348


348

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

passport from Mr. De Rocheblave to go to Missilimannac where he arriv'd the 21st day of July following when he was immediately imprisoned and his effects seized by Major De Peyster. That he was sent down by way of Detroit to this place where he has been detained ever since without any reason given him for his detention. That secure in his innocence he has demanded a trial which was refused him. That he has a just abhorrence of all Rebellion whatso'ever with the Instigators and abettors of it and that he never was or ever entertain'd the most distant wish to be aiding or assisting therein. That his persecution is solely caused by that rancour and malice inherent to "base & jealous minds searching to satiate their inveteracy. That well knowing Mr. De Rocheblave's malice tho' never suspecting it could transport him so far; his sole reliance was on his own Innocence and that Justice which has been hitherto denied him. That he has now been absent from his wife and family near fifteen months. That his property and connections both at Illinois and at Manchac in West Florida are very considerable and suffer greatly by his absence; That with a mind depressed with grief he begs your Excellency will be most graciously pleased to take his case into consideration humbly imploring you to compassionate his sufferings and grant him a passport to return to his family and your petitioner with a heart overflowing with gratitude and duty will never cease to pray. MONTREAL the 10th August 1778. T. BENTLEY. Endorsed. Memorial of Mr. Tho s Bentley Merchant. 10th August 1778. [B 185-1, p 31] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON. MONTREAL 27h August 1778.,LIEUT. COL. BOLTON SIR Having received Intelligence from Lieut. Governor Hamilton, that the Rebels have overrun and taken possession of the Illinois, I enclose you a copy of the letter which I write on this occasion to Mr. Hamilton, in order that you may be informed of the steps and precautions which I have thought necessary to recommend to him, and I must request that what I have written to him concerning ammunition and arms may be likewise observed at your post, such circumspection being at present of the greatest importance to His Majesty's Service. As you may have opportunities of communicating with the Ohio Indians, the Delawares & Shawanese, I desire you will make a trial



Page 349


GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. 349 whether any bodies of those or any other Indians whom you could engage, could be disposed to act upon this occasion in concert with such as shall be employed by Mr. Hamilton whom it will naturally occur to you to assist in every manner which you have in your power _without distressing the King's Service elsewhere. It will be necessary \ the most particular Instructions be given on this occasion to the,-Commanders of the armed vessels whereever they shall be employed. With respect to your own Post, I have the fullest confidence in your zeal & experience for employing to the best advantage, whatever means you have in your Power, to secure it against insult, and defend it in every emergency. I have already acquainted you that I should reinforce you, but I find it now necessary to extend my view in this particular to Detroit, and that accordingly it will be requisite to strengthen that post with as many men as you can possibly spare from Niagara, after your re-inforcement is arrived, as I have informed Mr Hamilton should be done, and I must therefore request you will observe and' I leave it to you to draw for your own assistance if your occasion become pressing from the Detachment under Captain Aubrey, all above what will be absolutely necessary for the defence of the new work erecting on the Island now called Carleton Island, a copy of the order to Captain Aubrey upon that occasion is herewith enclosed. There are Complaints that the Contractor at your Carrying Place does not provide suffieient means for transporting the goods which arrive there, one principal reason which induced me to make the contract was to give satisfaction to the merchants, he must therefore, at any rate, provide everything requisite for that purpose and to prevent their murmurs on that subject in future. I am informed that a great quantity of goods lye at the Carrying Place at Niagara guarded only by a small party, and observing the eagerness of the merchants to send such quantities up I am apprehensive of this becoming a bait to tempt the Rebels, and to draw them upon your Post, for which reason I must desire that you detach a company to each of these places, with the most particular orders: and if possible that a Block House with some enclosure of picketting or other easier effectual work, be erected to cover the ground whereon these goods lye, and to serve the party as a defence in case of sudden attempts, and it will be necessary that you have Indians employed constantly on scouts to give you early intelligence of the approach of an enemy, in order the better to enable you to make these Detachments



Page 350


350

HALDIMAND PAPERS

Captain Aubrey is now directed to send you your Light Infantry Company immediately. I am Sir &c. &c. [signed] F F. H. P. S. A Fleet is Just arrived from England with a reinforcement of two thousand men, and I expect to be still further strengthened before the end of the year. [B 62, p 117] E. FOY TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. MONTREAL 28th August 1778 SIR, La Tourche & his party having presents delivered to them all & Commissions to such of their Great Chiefs as were recommended by their Leaders, and Superintendant after having in every other manner every mark of favor & affection shewn them have been dismissed to return to their Villages, with which treatment they. appear to be perfectly well satisfied and I am to signify to you the Commander in Chief's desire that at their return you acquaint them again how much His Excelly. esteems them & how much he confides in their attachment & zeal for the cause & interest of the King of great Britain, their only Father, & His Excellency further commands me to recommend to your care & attention that everything be done at your Post for them which is most likely to confirm their present disposition & to engage their most effectual services against all His Majesty's Enemies & particularly that in the present circumstances of the Illinois Country every thing be done to secure the assistance of these Savages, either to drive the Rebels out again, which from their numbers seems easily effected, or at least to prevent their further progress. A copy of this letter will be delivered to you by each of the Ottawa Bands. I am Sir &c. &c. [signed] Major De Peyster E. FOY. [B 97-1, p 50] SIR HENRY CLINTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NEW YORK Sept 9th 17.78 SIR Finding it necessary to repair to Rhode Island which had been



Page 351


SIR HENRY CLINTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. 351 besieged for some time by a considerable Body of the Rebels, I embarked about fourteen days ago with a Reinforcement for its relief, but found upon my arrival that the Enemy had evacuated it on the Evening before. I was honoured at that place with Your Excellency's dispatches, which I am sorry is not in my power to answer so fully by the present opportunity as I could wish, being obliged to leave the ship in which I was returning, and travel part of the way by land, so that I could not bring your Letters with me, and the vessel is not yet arrived. The French Fleet, which for a time co-operated with the Rebels in their attempts to reduce Rhode Island, is since got into Boston, but as Lord Howe is not yet returned, I fear the season will be too far advanced to make it possible to send you the Reinforcement I intended, but of this I am the less anxious, as you have not made a Requisition for any Troops, and I presume therefore are not in want of them; particularly as I understand the Regiment of Anhalt Lerbst, 500 Bruns-.wick Recruits &c amounting to near 1700 men, may have joined you by this time. I shall endeavour to communicate with Your Excellency as often as in my power, relying on the like return from you, and should any thing material happen during the winter, I hope it will be practicable to give me information of it by way of the Frontiers. When a plan is fixed for the future operations of this Army, I shall not fail to inform you thereof; for which purpose I shall have a fast sailing vessel in readiness to proceed as early in the Spring as possible to Halifax, trusting that it may meet with one of the same kind from you at that place to facilitate the conveyance. I have the pleasure to acquaint your Excellency that the Rebels have been repulsed in an attempt which they made lately upon the Frontiers of East Florida, and that the Garrison there is now under no apprehensions of their being able to effect any thing against that Province before a Reinforcement can be sent from hence, which I Intend shall be done in a very little time. West Florida, I understand is also at present equally out of danger, but I propose likewise to send a Reinforcement there. By these Detachments & some others which I am ordered to make, I shall I fear be reduced to little more than a starved Defensive. I find the Garrison of Halifax has been lately strengthened with near 2000 men from Europe.



Page 352


352

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

With every good wish for your health and happiness I have the honor to be Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble servant His Excellency General Haldimand H. CLINTON Endorsed: Genl. Sr. H. Clinton Duplicate of Sept 9th reed Oct the 23d [B 147, p 24J LOUIS CHEVALLIER TO MAJOR ARENT S. DEPEYSTER. [TranslationJ ST. JOSEPHS SIn 15th Sept 1778 He whom you charged with your dispatches has delivered them to me. I have just been informed of what happened at the Illinois, which shows you well the obstacles which oppose your designs they are not however insignificant for they manifest your zeal, they oblige me at all hazards to abandon mine. But as it would be as shameful as disadvantageous to undertake the impossible I will only try to effect, as "far as possible, the most happy effects, if in spite of the corruption which creeps in among the Indians I could count on a small number who will still be faithful subjects By this alone we can judge of the disposition of these brutal (Bruteur) spirits, but I can give you a more ample exposition of their sentiments. An Indian arrived from the Illinois about two days ago reported that the Rebels were there in great numbers, he assured me he had seen five hundred men in the first village, he also said that five hundred had left for the post but he did not know the number of those who occupied the other villages, he wrote (ecrie) much on the amiable Reception which they had given him, also that the Mis, Kikapous, Mal Contains, Sakis & the Puants, who were all with him praised the genorosity with which the commandant of the party had promised to receive them. That some of their Courriers de Voiture had arrived promising them that nothing would be wanting. He could not disguise the joy that the words of the Rebel chief had put into his wicked heart-"My Children" said he to them "the French the Spanish you and us form one body & consequently we have the same will & the same interest" I represented to him with vehemence that this was a trick & feint..... ~~r



Page 353


LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GENERAL HALDIMAND.

353

on their part that they would promise what was not in their power to accomplish. This reasoning seemed good & he changed the resolution which he had made & which he had already taken. I have sworn said he to me, I and all the nations who were with me not to raise the hatchet against them nor against their enemies & that the first who will raise it against the one or the other will be declared an enemy to both. The Indian Houme' le Ratine Coup6 presented himself before them with the medal on his neck, they pulled it off him with an odius contempt saying that he would not receive one of them. I think Sir that if you had been informed of this sad change it would be far from you to meditate the remedy that you propose, you would rather have disposed yourself to apply that which you reserved. I do not know Sir, on what we will determine the choice of a man qualified appears to me as uncertain as the success of his negotiation more especially as the Illinois Nation does not number one hundred warriors besides it is cowardly & fearful, there is no appearance that they will suddenly change their nature-It requires only one word from your mouth to make me take my resolution-I go to keep the belt for them or in short to resume my duty among them. As for me I shall always be the most humble and submissive of your servant. Louis CHEVALLIER The Psoux your children wish you good day & thank you for the present which you have made them. I The Rebels intend to go to your fort for breakfast in the Spring, I hope that they will be regaled with bullets & balls. They are bold enough for the enterprise. Addressed To Major Depeyster Commandant at Michillimakinac Endorsed: Letter from M Chevallier of St Joseph to Major De Peyster of the 15th Sept transmitted in the Majors letter of the 21st Sept. [B 97-1, p 55] I LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA Septembre 18th SIR, 1778. I have received the Honor of Your Excellencys favour dated August the 27th with a copy of a Letter wrote to Governor Hamilton & also. 45



Page 354


354

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

of an order sent to Captain Aubrey-the precaution concerning the ammunitions & arms have always been observed at this Post nor do I think it probable that any of them can fall into the hands of the Rebels. I have consulted Major Butler concerning the Delawares & chavasures & other Indians to try if it is possible to ingage them to act in concert with those employed by Mr. Hamilton but he informs me the Shawanes seldom or ever come here & that all the Indians he can assemble will not amount to more than a number sufficient to repulse the Rebels, who are preparing in several Places to attack the Senecas & other Nations our allies but as to any other assistance that I can possibly afford our Friends at Detroit. I believe the contractor has done more this season than was ever accomplished in so short a time for many years past, therefore it is impossible that there could be any cause for those complaints. Your Excellency has been informed of & at this time he has not only sent into the Indian Country to buy Cattle but has also bought several here in order to carry over the Merchants goods with the utmost expedition, but let him exert himself ever so much I am affraid it will not prevent murmers on this subject People do not consider the great quantity of Provisions now forwarding to Detroit and Machilimackinac. The enclosed morning return will inform Your Excellency how the men of this Garrison are employed since the Detachment left this Post & I hope it will appear to you that it is not in my power to send more men to Fort Schlosser or the landing without neglecting every thing necessary to put this Fort in some state of diffence, which I supose must be first considered & the rebels may as well expect to storm this Place without my knowledge as to surprize the Detachment at the Landing as long as the Six Nations are our Friends. We have Scouts out from Fort Stanwix round to Fort Pitt, besides a considerable party at Auchquaga watching the motions of a number of Rebels assembling in that neighbourhood. Last winter this place was quite lumbered with merchandize even the officer's Barracks was filled with goods, as I would not suffer any to remain at the Landing during the winter but ordered the soldiers of the Garrison to bring down twenty-six Batteaux Load, Your Excellency very Justly observes that the eagerness of the Merchants in forwarding such immense quantities -of Merchandize may tempt the Rebels to draw. near this Post & I am astonished that last year when there were goods to the amount of fifty thousand pounds sterling on Deer Island no attempt was made to destroy them, where they intend to lodge their goods this winter I no not, for it will be absolutely impossible to get



Page 355


CAPT. WM. CALDWELL TO MAJOR JOHN BUTLER.

355

the half of them over this year on account of the Provisions ordered for the upper Posts. This Fort measures about 1100 yards in circumference. there are five Bastions & two Block Houses to be defended & many other parts necessary to be manned, which according to the most moderate calculations that have been made on those occasions would require a garrison of a thousand men, the present strength amounting to no more than 294 including 15 men of the Royal Artillery & the sick a number barely sufficient to defend the outworks (if they were in a state of defence) & relieve the necessary sentries should the place be invested by a considerable force however Sir you may be assured I shall do everything in my power' to secure this Post against any insult & with the handful of men under my command will defend it in every exigency as long as it is possible. I could have wished Lieut Twiss had paid us a visit, in order to lay before you an exact state of this Fort, with a garrison of five hundred men or a less number, it is impregnable against all the savages in America, but a strong body of Troops with Artillery should move this way I believe no Engineer wfo has ever seen those works will say it can hold out any considerable time, but notwithstanding our sitdation you may depend the King's Regiment will do every thing that can possibly be expected from them. I never knew of any goods being sent to Sanduske if there has been some carried there it must be from Detroit Capt. Lernoult is a very old officer & deserving of every favour Your Excellency can shew him commands there, & I am convinced will pay close attention to that place agreeable to your commands. I have the honor &c [signed] MASON BOLTON P. S. Capt. Mathews is preparing a state of the garrison for Lieut Twiss & Major Butler will inform you by this opportunity of our Indian Affairs. [B 96-1, p 216] CAPT. WM. CALDWELL TO MAJOR JOHN BUTLER. SIR ONONDELLA Sept 21st 1778 We returned to this place yesterday evening after destroying all Buildings and Grain 'at the German flats from Wm Tygerts to Fort Harkimer on the south side the River & from Adam Starings to Edicks beyond Canada Creek on the North Side. Excepting the church and



Page 356


356

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Fort Dayton, and drove off a great number of Cows & Oxen & a great many Horses & Mares, the Oxen were all large New England cattle "kept at the flats for the use of the Garrison at Fort Stanwix, and we took them out of the enclosure at Fort Dayton within pistol shot of the Fort. In our way to the flats we came up with a Scout at Major Edmonston's, three of which we killed but the others made their escape. Notwithstanding we took every obvious method to prevent them, but prior to that we took five Oneida Prisoners, but the Indians could not be prevailed upon to keep them, but left them where they were with three other Indians to watch them, on their promising to stay at that place until we should return-which promise they broke & in our absence came, to Onondella and robbed the people there of every thing they had of any value & carried as many of the men as they could find away Prisoners, amongst whom were two of our sick Rangers. We would in all probability have killed most of the Inhabitants at the German Flats had they not been apprized of our coming by one of the Scouts getting in & warning them of our approach, and perhaps got their Forts, we were also very unhappy in the weather as it rained incessantly all the night before we attack'd the place and on the following day. We talked to none of the Inhabitants, Mr. Shoemaker's Family excepted who could not or would not give us any acct. of the armies at New York, North River &c. Mr. Wall inquired particularly about your family, but could learn nothing but that Mrs. Butler had been seen about three months ago at Schenectady. Some people created a false report that we were surrounded & taken, the better to excuse their own flying which I am afraid will reach you before this, I refer you for particulars of this and every thing else with us to Lieut Foy. I am Sir &c WM CALDWELL To Col. Jno. Butler Endorsed: 177' From Capt Caldwell to Major Butler from Onondella 21st Sept. Inclosed in Major Butler's Letter of the 4th October 1778 (No. 4) [B 105, p 56]



Page 357


RETURN OF ENGINEER'S STORES. 357 'RETURN & STATE OF ENGINEERS STORES TAKEN AT MICHIL1IMACKINAC S0TH SEPT 1778

0.5 0 ~ 0 0 0 -~.~ ~ 0 0 (0

-Smiths Tools: Bellows pairs----------------------------------------------------------1--1--1 Anvil--------------------------------------------------------------- 1 --------- Sledge Hammer------------------------------------------------------ 1 --------- Hand ditto.--------------------------------------------------------- 1 1------- Bench vice ---------------------------------------------------------- 1----------- Hand ditto.---------------------------------------------------------- 1 --------- Screw Plate ------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ 1 1 Nail Tool------------------------------------------------------ ------ ------. 1 1 Hardie------------------------------------------------------------ ------ ------ 1 1 Files of Sorts------------------------------------------------------- 14 --- 40 40,Steel, lbs.------------------------------------------------------- 47 --- ------.Iron Te-lbs ---------------------------------------------------- 10231--- ------,Spike Nails lbs.------------------------------------------------------ 25% ---------- *Twenty Fourpqnny Nails 'lbs --------------------------------------------- 476~4 --------- *Ten Penny do lbs - -------------------------------------------- 68 --- ------.Sawyer's Tools: Whip Saws---------------------------------------------------------- 5 --------- Cross Cutt do------------------------------------------------------- 4 1 3 3 Saw Setts,--------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ 2 2 Iron Dogs ---------------------------------------------------------- 2----------- earpeflter's Tools: Hand Saws --------------------------------------------------------- 3 --------- Jennett do---------------------------------------------------------- 2 ---- ------ Felling Axes-------------------------------------------------------- 19 6 9 9 Broad do --------------------------------------------------------- 1 1 2 2 Adzes---------------------------------------------------------------7 --- 1 1 Clawed Hammers -------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ 1 11 Long Planes -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 3 - - - 1 1 Babbet do ----m------------------------------------------------------2 --- 2 2 Jack Planes --------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ 1 1 Iron Squares --------------- ------------------------------- 3------ ------ ------~ Chilsels ofSorts.-----------------------------------------------------4 --- 5 5 Gouges-------------------------------------------------------------- 4 1 2 2 Augers------------------------------------------------ ------------- 14 --- 4 4 Compasses Iron proe---------------------------------------------- ------ 1 I 1 Gimblets ------------------------------------------------ m----------82 14 14 Drawing Knives ------------ -------- W--------------------------4w......4..-.........---



Page 358


358 HALDIMAND PAPERS.'I AT MICHILIMACKINAC.-Continued.

94l I CD

Grind Stones ---------------------------------------------------------------- 2 --------- Mason's Tools: Stone Hammers -------------------------------------------------------- 8 --------- Lathing do------------------------------------------------------------- 2 1 1 Trowels ---------------------------------------------------------------- 5 --------- Cooper's Tools: J oin ters---------------------------------------------------------------- 2 --- ------ Hawling Knives----------------------------------------------- ------ ------ ------1 Stave do -------------------------------------------------------- 2 --- ------ Truss Hoops of sorts ---------------------------------------------------- 7----------- ------ Intrenching Tools: Pick Axes -------------------------------------------------------------- 28 ----- 8 Spades------------------------------------------------------------------ 11 9 9 9 Shovels ---------------------------------------------------------------- 14 --- 8 8 Iron Crows -------------------------------------------------------------2 ----- ------ ------ Hand Bills-------------------------------------------------------------- 10 --- 3 3 Wheel Barrows---------------------------------------------------------- 2 -AT THE GRAND PORTAGE Twentyfourpenny Nails lbs expended since last return -------------------388 Tenpenny do do ----------------------------- 44 Cross CJut Saw---------------------------------------------------------------1 ----- ------ ------ Hand do------------------------------------------------------------------ 1 --------- Adze ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 1 --- ------ Spade--------------------------------------------------------------- I------ ------ ------1 Shovells --------------------------------------------------------------------- 2 ---- ------ Augre.------------------------------------------- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 1-------------- Pick Axes ------------------------------------------------------------------- 1I Hand Bills ------------------------------------------------------------------- 2 --------- Trowel ----------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 --- ------ Gimblets -------------------------------- ------------------------------------ 2 --- ------ Clawed Hammer ---------------------------------------------------------------1 -,-------.AT. S. DE PEYSTER [B E5 22]Maj.



Page 359


LIEUT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

359

LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA October 3d 1778. SIR, - I have received a Letter from Capt. Lernoult informing me that Governor Hamilton designed setting off in a short time, with so many Volunteers Militia & Indians as can be conveniently assembled at Detroit to endeavour at dispossessing the*Rebels or at least stopping those Invaders from penetrating farther. four hundred Shawanese have been sent forward & as the governor wishes to have an officer & some volunteers from the Kings' Regiment I have consented to his request which I hope will meet with Your Excellency's approbation. I beg leave to enclose you a Memorial from Lieut Cook (nephew of Sir Eyres Cook) & take the liberty of recommendg him to your Excellency as a very active & deserving officer. I have the Honor &c. [signed] MASON BOLTON. [B 96-1, p 221] LIEUT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. MONTREAL 5th Oct. 1778 SIR, I have to acquaint your Excellency that the second party of' Indians that went down Lake Champlain returned yesterday to this place, that La Fraise who conducted it tells me, that he left tht Saw Mill on the banks of Otter Creek the 29th last month, that he did not see the least appearance of any work going on there, that the saw Mill is quite useless and has been so for some time past as he was informed by one Mac Intosh formerly in the Royal Highlanders and now lives close to the mill, that miles farther up the Creek there was about two hundred men, Inhabitants assembled by way of a guard who sent frequently small partys down the Creek and By different Routs as far as the Lake Side. If you please to send me ycur orders for the different commanding officers on the communication to Detroit I will doe my endeavours to supply that Place & Niagara with Ind" Presents Before the winter sets in, I have the Honor to be with great Respect Sir Your Excellency's most obt. His Excellency & most humble Servant Genl Haldimand JOHN CAMPBELL &c. &c [B 111, p 14]

S1



Page 360


360

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LIEUT. COL. MACBEAN. SOREL the 12h October 1778. LIEUT COL. MACBEAN. SIR, The time draws very near when it becomes necessary to transmit the demands of all natures of stores for the ensuing year-I must beg therefore that you will as sdon as possible furnish me with that of the Department under your command. The German Artillery from Three Rivers is not yet arrived. I am &c. [B 62, p 274] CAPT. ALEXANDER MCKEE TO CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT. UPPER SHAWANESE TOWN SIR, Oct 25h 1778. Since my arrival amongst these Indians various reports has been propogated of a considerable Army of Virginians being upon their way against Detroit &c. This day several Chiefs have declared to me that they have received certain Information, which may be depended upon, of the Truth of this intelligence, therefore I must look upon it as a duty incumbent upon me to give you the earliest advice thereof, & I have requested these Indians to make you acquainted constantly of their. Progress. To-morrow I set out to Join Govr. Hamilton at the Miamis. If anything further of importance comes to my knowledge shall not fail to acquaint you. I am Sir with great respect To Your most obedt. hum. Servt. Capt Lernoult. [signed] A. Mc KEE P. S. Since writing the above am informed by an Indian from the Rebel Army that they have three pieces of cannon with them-and that they will take Post the 26h of this month at Tuscarawas where they propose building a Fort. [B 100, p 77] TAYLOR & DUFFIN TO COL. DANIEL CLAUS. NIAGARA 28h Oct. 1778. SIR It is about sixteen days ago since Mr Taylor arrived here, Miss Molly being in the Indian Towns we postponed writing to you untill



Page 361


TAYLOR & DUFFIN TO COL DANIEL CLAUS.

36L

her return, which was daily expected, but it was ten days after before she arrived. The little Trunks were delivered to her immediately. Her brother Mr. Joseph Brant was about 35 miles above Aughguago when she heard of him last. He has been on the Frontiers since the beginning of May last, trying to make his way to the British Army with a pretty considerable party of their back Settlements: it is told of him that he and his party have shown dispositions of Humanity to women & children & Persons not found in arms. He has destroyed the german Flatts since Major John Butler came back here from Wayoming-He did not leave a House Barn or Stable unburnt to ashes but those of three Families, The Ministers Mr. Shoemakers & Mr. Thompsons Miss Molly says he has now thoughts of penetrating through to the Army at New York, with only three or four with him, as he finds it impracticable with the whole of his Party, which he does not think strong enough to force their way, & with three or four he may march by back roads & in the night Miss Molly however thinks the risk is too great so wishes, and is not without hopes, that he may come in herie and if he does she imagines he may go down to Canada to see His Excellency General Haldimand & you. If he comes here no doubt he will bring the White People who have been fighting with him all the summer. We are told they are naked & no doubt Mr. Brant has promised them pay. However as your directions to us have not been so extensive as to give us liberty to furnish him with any considerable sum as such a number of people we are told he has with him all summer may want, we can only supply them with such things as they cannot do without, untill we hear further from you & if he goes further down to Canada we will take his Bill on you for the amount thereof. It is said the least number he had at any time this summer of white People is 60 or 70 & Major John Butler himself mentioned about that number a few days ago & said they meritted Pay, for they had seen a good deal of service and been constantly active, but not having served under him, not knowing by what authority they were employed, he could take no notice of them. We paid Miss Molly ~25 Halifax Currency agreeable to His Excellency General Haldimand's desire to Mr. Taylor when in Montreal this Fall. She desires you will thank His Excellency for her, and if the season was not too far spent she would have gone down to Canada to thank him herself. She is mightily pleased with His Excellency's notice of her. The other day Major Butler was telling Mr. Taylor of the Rebels burning Aughnago, and about the same time there came news from 46



Page 362


362

362 HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Detroit of there being 200 Americans, and as many french which have got as near Detroit as the Thames River andi that there were about 600 gone from Fort Pitt and that the latter had cannon to attack it (Detroit) which he thought a serious matter. However we think it all a fiction & Mr. Taylor told him so, but he said he believes every word of it and he thinks the Indians situation very critical. & dangerous so heartily wished they could make a peace with the Rebels on condition they would not offer to go through the Indian Country to attack any of their Posts. Miss Molly told Mr. Taylor that the Indians often ask her what is the reason Col. Claus did not come to Niagara. If it were not for the service she thinks she can be here, id~ advising & conversing with the Indians she would go down to Canada with her Family. She desires M'Vr. Taylor to inform your Excellency that the manner she lives here is pretty expensive to her, as she is obliged in a manner to keep open house for all those Indians that have any weight in the 6 Nation Confederacy. We have told her we will not see her in want & conclued in Haste Sir Your most obedt humble Servants Danl. Claus Esq. [signed] TAYLOR & DUFFIN [B 114, p 10] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON. LIEUT. COL. BOLTON %. QUEBEC 31st October SIR 1778. Iam &c. &c. P. S. By a Rebel Paper that has Just now fallen into my hands, I found the following paragraphs which I have thought proper to communicate to you, viz. "an' article from Charlestown of the month of July mentions an expedition having been resolved upon against Detroit, co~nsisting of 3000 men under a General McIntosh" how far this may be true I won't pretend to say, but it is better to be upon ones guard. [ B 62, p 285 ]



Page 363


LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

363

LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA, November llth SIR 1778 I received your Excellency's favour of the 7th of October informing me that two officers & twenty men are to join this Garrison from Carleton Island at the close of the navigation. I am concerned to find there has been any disagreement amongst the officers at that Post particularly at this time the favourable reports you have heard of the King's Regiment the officers & men are justly intitled to & I am persuaded it will require very little shickanp (illegible) to prevent those gentlemen from having any evil influence upon that of the 8th. I have consulted every Person here who can give me any information in regard to supplying this Post with bread & from all accounts it is impossible for the contractor with all the assistance this weak garrison can give him to do more than cultivate as much Land as will supply his own cattle &c during the present troubles perhaps hereafter in more peaceable times it may be accomplished agreeable to your Excellency's plan, but even then it will require at least seven years to do it, at this time we must be a little cautious how we cultivate or encroach on the Lands of the Six Nations a subject we have often talked over at our Councils & informed them that the great King had never deprived them of a single acre since the year 1759, at which time he drove the French out of this country this they readily acknowledged observing at the same time the Rebels had acted in a Svery different manner for which they should severely repent. The Indians from my observations are naturally suspicious & altho'.easily encouraged with anything that promises them advantage are still inclined to believe evil reports of designs against themselves even from the meanest authority. But this Your Excellency must know much better than I am able to inform you, from your long experience & knowledge of this country. I beg leave to observe also that the Indians not only make free with the Corn gardens &c but often with the cattle belonging to Mr. Stedman & some time even with those under the Cannon of this Fort. From the reports made to me by Major Butler they are in good want of provision in their own country owing to their expeditions against the enemy this year, I have already brought up above fifty head of cattle from the people who came in here, which will come more reasonable from Government than salt Provisions but all this is a trifling supply to two or three thousand Indians who will certainly assemble here in order to receive cloathing



Page 364


364

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

&c. I have wrote to Captain Lernoult desiring he would inform me if the inhabitants at Detroit will undertake to supply his Post with bread & if possible also that of Michilimackinac, I shall make further inquiries in order to give your Excellency every information in regard to so essential an article. I have acquainted Capt. Andrews that you consider him as commandant of the Kings Vessels on Lake Ontario & supose of course he will be entitled to the same pay as the commandr on Lake Erie if I may be allowed to form an opinion of his Judgement in naval affairs I believe Sir you will scarce find an officer on these Lakes more deserving of your favours. By all reports he is a good seaman & well informed in regard to the navigation on the upper Lakes. Sober active & one who will save the commanding officer here a great deal of trouble from his experience on naval affairs. From Letters received from Captain Butler the Rebels have thought proper to retire from Tioga leaving a garrison of 500 men at Wioming what they call regulars on the news of their invading the Indians Country the Senecas turned out to the number of 400 fighting men, leaving only women & children in their vilages which may account for their precipitate flight Captain Butlers little army of Rangers & Indians amount to 800 & from his last Letter intends to attack Cherry Valley where the enemy have a large quantity of Corn & a number of cattle. Joseph I have not heard from for a considerable time, it is supposed he is gone down towards Mennesink. Cap. Lernoult informs me every thing goes on well with Governor Hamiltons Expedition he is now at Gt. Miamis Town. Major Butler is building Barracks for the Rangers on the opposite side of the river & Capt. Mathews is employed in cutting a strong Log house (which will contain 40 or 50 men) at the* Upper Landing & we are also at work with the additional Log Houses for this Garrison agreeable to Your Excellency's orders. I forwarded the 29h of August copies of the orders received at this Post which I hope you have received, & in my Letter of the Sepr 14 acquainted you how much I was distressed for want of Batteaux to carry on the service at this Post, I have seen Mr. Stedman who informs me he does not charge more than his former contract & that the new one will not commence untill March 1779. I have this day received your favour of the 19th of October & shall take the first opportunity of acquainting Major De Peyster with your commands. I have the honor &c. [signed] MASON BOLTON.



Page 365


LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

365

Tons Q. lb 58. 9 2 of Gun Powder have been forwarded to Detroit this summer of which I sent Capt. Lernoult an account. I have sent down to Montreal a considerable number of families who have suffered a great deal of distress on account of their attachment to government many of them have not only been driven from their Lands but plundered of every thing they had in the world & came in here in a Ragged starving condition. I have ordered some blankets &c. to be brought for them sufficient to serve them to Canada, & thought it best to remove them from this Post where provisions are of so much consequence. [B 96-1, p 227] LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FEEDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA Nov' llh 1778 SIR Captain Lernoult informs me every thing goes on well with Governor Hamilton's Expedition, he is now at Miamis Town. I have the honor to be with great respect Your Excellency's most obedt. most humble His Excellency Servant General Haldimand MASON BOLTON [B 100, p 69J LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA SIR November 13h 1778. I have this day received a Letter dated November the 8th from Capt. Lernoult who informs me that soon after the gage had sailed the felicity arrived from Michilimackinac and brought him a Letter from Major De Peyster in which he acquaints him that the Governor had stole a march which had he beep informed of he could greatly have



Page 366


366

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

added to its consequence by sending all the Indians returned from Montreal but before he received Mr. Hamiltons letter they were all disposed on their winters hunt that on the arrivel of Langlade & Gotier (two Indian officers) the 24h October he sent them to assemble what number of Indians could be got at the Grand River and ordered them to rendezvous at St Joseph having sent his own interpreter to receive them & to employ them in such manner as to assist the Governors schemes, Captain Lernoult also informs me that the Hurons of Sanduskie are much alarmed having lately received a message Pyses & the Delawares that they are in great danger from the Virginian incroachments on their lands and have requested an asylum for their women & children & also assistance from their warriors as they say the Virginians are coming in great bodies towards their villages. The Huron Messengers acquaint him they have sent up Horses to bring the families "& effects of the Delawares to Sanduske & the half King's brother is gone to reoonnoitre the truth of this Report. He also observes should a considerable number come that way they will undoubtedly attempt to destroy that settlement which 4000 men may accomplish in spite of the efforts of this Garrison particularly at this time when they are much weakened by Governor Hamilton's Detachment which is gone quite another way, however he will do a]l in his power to defeat their purposes. On receiving the inclosed letter from Capt. McKee I immediately orderded Capt. Bolton to sail with all expedition to Niagara in order to communicate this intelligence that I might furnish him with assistance and advice in this critical Juncture. He also acquaints me that Capt Grant has sent orders for the vessels at Fort Erie to return as soon as possible to Detroit in order that no steps may be omitted in securing that Post and keeping open the communication on the Lakes, as long as possible, he says Capt McKee must have joined Governor Hamilton some days before he received his letter therefore imagines he will lose no time in turning his attention to the Protection of Detroit. I have now only to inform Your Excellency that in conseqaence of your orders for a Reinforcement to be sent to Captain Lernoult I have ordered some time ago a Captain two subaltern and fifty nine men to Detroit full as many (if not more) as this post ought to spare, considering the present strength of the garrison, particularly too at this time of the year, for soon it will be impossible for the vessels to navigate the Lakes & of course we will be deprived of all hopes of assistance from Canada this winter.

[signed]

MASON BOLTON



Page 367


GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON.

367

P. S. This moment I have received the enclosed letter from Ensign Twiss but the reports he has heard I can scarce give any credit to its calculated I supose to serve some scheme of the Rebels for they had from the commencement of these troubles succeeding merely by cunning & some false piece of news brought by some of their friends. Some-days ago we had a report from Detroit that their Army were to take different routes two by the Seneca Country & Presqu Isle & the other to Sandusky by Detroit I must also observe should Captain Butler fail of success the Indian Country & of course a road to this Post will be laid opened, besides if I could send even 100 men with officers it is my opinion that I could thereby only serve to weaken this garrison without materially serving Detroit were cannon & 400 men are expected. [B 96-1, p 232] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC 25h Decr. 1778. LIEUT COL. BOLTON Confidential SIR The uncertainty of the state of Detroit and Michilimackinac as long as the Rebels remain masters of the country they have lately infested on the back of them renders it necessary that great caution be observed as to what merchants "effects," particularly ammunition be permitted to pass those places in the Spring as such effects might be of themselves a sufficient temptation to draw the Rebels that way. I shall be very careful what pass ports I grant the ensuing season but notwithstanding- any I have granted or shall grant, I must desire that you will let nothing of that nature pass your post under any dubious or uncertain circumstances of the persons they belong to or places they are intended for, but to keep merchants from Clamouring it may be right, and I must depend upon your address to appease them by promise' to dispatch them as soon as possible, urging some reasons of the services for the delay & giving them hopes that it will not continue long. I am Sir &c &c [B 62, p 359]



Page 368


Th~e Account of the Pay of the Officors & SIeamien at Detroit 1778.



Names

Qaality

Pay Sterling per dlay or imouth.

Full Pay per year

Remarks,

I ~~~I -. -. -. I



Alex Grant...........................----- Day d Belton --- -- -- -- --------- John Bennett -- -------------- Sami. Wickhamn M. Graham ------------------ Ferron M n---.---- ----- i6- -- -- -- -- -- -- ------ M n Home--- -- -- -- -- - --- - --- Wm Rankine ------------------------------,-Win Bray------------------ ---------------- Patk Wilkinson........................... Wm Nickervas.-- -------------- Mark McKay ------------------------------ 29 Seamen-------------------------------- John:Kent...........................------ Sami Baptist.........................----- Peter Sinclair ---------.-------------- Edward Carr.-------- -------- Bich.Budd ------------------

Commander ------------- Captain--- - -- - - - - - - - - - - d o -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Lieutenant ----------------------- do - - - - - - - - - - - - - M aster - - - - -- - - - -- - do -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Boatsw nof yard------------ ------- Boatswain.....................---- Gunner -------------------- Boatswain ------------------------ Gunner-------------------- E ach - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I1 J-Servts. to Capt. Bennett each }Servt to Capt Belton............---

L 'I 4 4 4 3 4 3 2 2 2

s 15 10 10 4 4 13 13 13 1 10 1 10 6 6 6 6 6

D 6 6 4 4 4 8 8 8 8 8 8 8

p. day p. day p. day p. day p. day P. mo p. mo p. mo p mo p.'l mo P. mo P. mo P. mo P. mo P. mo P. mo

273 182 182 81 81 60 60 60 53 45 53 45 897 91

18 18 13 13 13 1 10 1 10 13 0 13 13 19 6 5

I 4 4 8 8 4

z 2

Servants to ------------------------ Capt. Graham-----.-------- Servants to------------------------ Capt Grant each................----

60 60 2271 30 2512

0 4 4 4

'These not allowed according to ~.the Establishment & the amount of their Pay all together is ~242-13 -1 sterlg pr year to be deducted Total not allowed



[B 144, p 111]



Page 369


SAM. FLEMING TO NATHANIEL DAY.

369

THOMAS BENTLEY'S MEMORIAL. To His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Itsqr. Captain General and governor in Chief of the province of Quebec General & Commander in Chief of His Majesty's Forces in the said province and the Frontiers thereof etc. etc. etc. The Petition of Thomas Bentley Humbly Sheweth,, That your petitioner unconvicted of any crime has by the unjust Representations of wicked and designing persons been -detained from his family and affairs since the 21st of July 1777 during all of which time he has had nothing allowed him for his support That during the time of such detention he has been under the disagreeable & unavoidable necessity of incurring a variety of debts not only for his own subsistence but other contingencies which his situation has naturally exposed him to. That bereft of the means of satisfying such debts he is in constaht danger of being exposed to the most disagreeable consequences, which he has the greatest reason to fear will take place against him without Your Excellency will be pleased to enable him to satisfy the same; Humbly hopes therefore that you will be most graciously pleased to consider his distressed situation and grant him such supply with such an allowance for the time to come as will be necessary for him to support himself with credit and prevent his being exposed through necessity to descend to acts unworthy of that character he has hitherto supported in the World. Humbly hopes that your Excellency will commisserate his most unhappy situation and grant him a pass port to return to his home at the Illinois this Spring as his long absence of almost two years from thence is much bewailed by his wife and family and your petitioner as in duty bound will ever pray. MONTREAL 21st January 1779. T. BENTLEY Endorsed: Memorial of Mr. Thos. Bentley Merchant 21st January 1779. [B 185-1, p 33] SAM. FLEMING TO NATHANIEL DAY. DETROIT, 29h Jany 1779. SIR I should long ago have sent you the estimate for the ensuing year, according to general orders, but no opportunity has offered before; 47



Page 370


370

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

However I hope this may not arrive too late, as we only want two Thousand Barrels of Flour, and one Thousand Barrels of Pork, the small species that remain in store will be sufficient for another year, therefore I am ordered to acquaint you that no other species than the forementioned need be forwarded, for it would be lost to the crown. When my commanding officer sends down the garrison Returns mine shall also be forwarded. I am with due respect [signed] SAM. FLEMING Depy. Commy. Nathaniel Day Esq Endorsed From No 22. 1779 Mr. Fleming Depy. Commissary at Detroit to Nathl. Day Esqr. of the 29h January Recd. 20h March, enclosed in Mr. Days letter of the 18h of March. [B 191, p 52] LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA SIR february 8th 1779 I received your favours dated 31st October & 12th of November by "Mr. Adams of the Indian Department, who was sent here by Capt. Aubrey with the Express by Land & arrived here the 29th of December. I informed your Excellency in my last letter that I had ordered the Seneca with 400 Barrels of Provisions to Carleton Island having received a letter from the commanding officer there that he had but two months Provisions for his garrison as the Batteaux he expected up were not arrived, he now acquaints me that he had received part of what was ordered up & three Batteaux Loads would have been sufficient, that Lt. Chiquette had made several attempts to return to this Post but to no purpose therefore on consulting with the officers of the Seneca & Caldwell as the season was so far advanced that she should winter there and return here early in the Spring with the Provisions, he also mentioned having received Intelligence by some Indians that the Indians intended paying him a visit this winter. I have therefore requested that he will take every method to secure the Seneca in some place of safety and on no accounts suffer her to fall into their hands, for with her assistance they would be able to cut off all supplies ordered for the upper Posts as she carries 18 guns 8 of which are nine pounders and the Haldimand only 10 four Pounders. The inclosed Letter will inform Your Excellency of the state this vessel was in therefore on consulting with Capt. Andrews & Mr. Coleman I ordered her to be repaired & this day they have reported to me that she can be,made



Page 371


LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

371

to last two years longer. Capt. Schank will inform you that she is a very proper vessel for this Lake. The Angelica sailed from Fort Erie the 23rd of November returned three weeks after without being able to reach Detroit owing to the hard gales of wind which is by no means an unlucky circumstance as she was loaded with Provisions. It will also be necessary to give her some repairs & by that time I suppose the vessels will be able to navigate the Lake, when Mr. Coleman & the artificers shall be sent to Carleton Island; which could not be done sooner as Capt. Andrews did not receive Capt. Schank's Letter until Mr. Adams arrived here. I am astonished at the great delays your Excellency's orders meet with two Light Batteaux with proper hands one with Captain Aubrey & the other at Layhane might certainly be on some occasions of the utmost consequence at these Posts. The large Batteaux with Stores are sometimes I am informed three weeks before they get to Carleton Island which may be done by a light one in seven days. The Gun boat was launched the 23d of last month, but we want guns & sails for her, I have already sent four brass six pounders from this Post which we would undoubtedly have occasion for, if the Enemy should make any attempt this way with a considerable force. You have already received an account of what the freights came to last year on this Lake, by what I hear on Lake Erie will be more & for the two last years amounts to a considerable sum therefore if Your Excellency favours me with your orders I shall forward them to Cap" Lernoult & desire the accounts to be settled & immediately sent to me, otherwise Government will loose it at this time its absolute necessity to do our utmost to lessen the expences of these Posts for Major Butler informs me that the next Bill will be for many thousands. The meeting of the Indians in December 1777 cost Government ~14000 pounds besides Presents sent by Sir Guy Carleton to the amount as I am informed of ~20,000 more New York currency rum & ration not included. The Major assures me at the same time he does everything in his power to make the goods go as far as possible believe me Sir my situation is extremely disagreeable to be obliged to draw for such immense sums, when it is impossible I can be a Judge of these immense accounts even if I was in health and able to pay more attention to them, instead of which I have been confined to my room about two months with the rheumatism in my hand & stomach & violent cramps in my legs. I am really of opinion that to keep the Indians in a good temper (as it is called) has cost old England much more than all the Posts are worth & as to their scalping women &



Page 372


372

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

children & Prisoners, I find it not impossible to prevent them, such cruelties must make an expedition very disagreeable to the Kings Troops when ordered on service with them. The inclosed returns will shew you Sir, the number of rations drawn from the 25th December to the 24th Janry. as well as the number of Indians still remaining here, many more than I could possibly expect as Major Butler some time ago informed me he had sent the Indian officers to prevail on them to keep their women and children at home that presents should be sent to them but all this I find has not lessened their numbers here, & they have remained much longer than usual notwithstanding all I can do or say. I am determined to take care of this Garrison let the consequence be what it will. If your Excellency would order us a sufficient quantity of rum for the Naval & Indian Departments it would save a considerable sum as every gallon since I have been here cost twenty shillings N. Y. Currency & I suppose might be bought for eight at Montreal when vessels arrive in the Spring. Mr. Taylors behaviour was certainly very extraordinary, however I must say since his arrival he has lowered the price of goods to the Garrison considerably therefore I wish to see as many merchants here as chuse to come. Major De Peyster some time ago acquainted me that he'hoped his weak Garrison would not be obliged to spare an officer & twelve men to the Grand Portage this year as its possible the Enemy may have some thoughts of paying him a visit. I am much obliged to Your Excellency for the orders sent to Captain Aubrey concerning the Batteaux & altho' it arrived too late for him to send the'm before next Spring, yet they will be of great. service at that time Mr Stedman carried over fifty Batteaux loads more than the vessels could possibly take to Detroit. I mention this circumstance to do him the credit he deserves & since my arrival here I never have been allowed an interpreter of a Clerk who would give me any assistance. I have therefore been obliged to employ a person here to copy the accounts &c of the naval & other Departments & hope you will have no objection to my charging one shilling per day for this trouble. I have tired your patience I am afraid with this long letter, but it is my wish to give your Excellency every information concerning this Post and have only to lament that I have not that knowledge of this country to point out such regulations as ought to be established here for the good of His Majesty's service. Accept Sir my best acknowledgements for the many favours conferred on the King's Regiment-the corps are sensible of your 'goodness & I



Page 373


LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO. GEN. HALDIMAND.

373

have not doubt but their future behaviour will be such as to merit your approbation. I have the honor to be [signed] MASON BOLTON. I have not as yet received any intelligence from Detroit therefore am in hopes we shall soon hear some favourable news. Cap'" Potts has just now given me the inclosed Letter which I beg leave to lay before your Excellency. it is needless to mention him to you Sir as an old and deserving officer as he had the honor of serving under your immediate command (as Lieut of Grenadiers) last War at the Times of Ticonderoga, in Justice to the Quartermaster Serjeant I must recommend him as an active sober & an honest man, his behaviour here since I have commanded merits every thing I can say in his favour. [B 96--1, p 238] LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA Feby 12h 1779 *SIR I was determined not to wait longer than next Monday for the Express from Detroit however an Indian arrived with letters from Governor Hamilton & Captain Lernoult with the agreeable news that Post Vincent was in our possession, but as I forward these letters from the Governor to Your Excellency they will inform you of the particulars. Captain Lernoult writes me word that having no hopes of any reinforcement he resolved with the advice of his officers to throw up a.strong work on the high ground which entirely commands his weak Fort, large enough to secure the stores & Provisions belonging to the Crown and to enable him to make such a defence as every officer zealous for the service and his own honor would wish. The behaviour of the Canadians during these troubles gives him very small hopes of those at Detroit. The greater part of the Merchants have assisted him cheerfully, and he has promised them a Corner to secure their most valuable effects, at least as much as will help to defend them. All those employed on the works receive Rum & Provisions, but no pay except the Artificers. The Timber for a Bomb Proof and the Platforms are already cut, and they are bringing them in as expeditiously as the deep roads will permit, the quantity of rain lately has retarded him much, yet the work is far advanced, as the mild se'ason has prevented the Enemy from advancing thro' the swamps & he hopes to have time



Page 374


374

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

to compleat the work to receive them properly, by the last intelligence he can learn there is a large body of them encamped near the Concerite River within three days march of the Upper St. Duske Village, their encampment extends near a mile & a half, having four Redoubts at some distance from each other in their front with Cannon in each and are commanded by a Colonel ilicIniosh. They are trying every method to draw the Indians from the Government, have sent Belts and Strings to invite them to Council, but if Indians are to be credited, most of the nations have refused listening to them, he informs me that every encouragement has been given to the Indians to oppose them and hold fast the chain of Friendship with us, and has sent them cloathing, ammunition &c. &c. to engage them to continue firm. The Hurons lately arrived from thence inform him the Enemy are very much upon their guard and both day and night send large Detachments of lhorse & foot for some miles round their encampment which prevents the People he has sent out to get Intelligence of their numbers he also acquaints me of having received a Belt lately from the Southern Indians sent to Captain Pipes (Chief of the Delawares) in our interest informing him of their being on their march to the Cherokee Creek, and that a body of Royalists are coming up the Mississippi to Join them in order to clear the Ohio of the Rebels. this he says corresponds with the intelligence Govr. Hamilton mentions in his letter to have received, he intends soon sending another express with the returns & accts of the expenses incur'd on the Governor's expedition, which he is under the necessity of drawing for during his absence, which cou'd not be sent at this time, as Mr. Hamilton desired his Dispatches should be forwarded with speed. I have desired Major Butler to do all he can to employ the Indians about Fort Pitt in cutting off their supplies & to exert themselves as much as possible to make a Diversion in favour of our friends at Detroit-a strong party was sent that way before this news arrived. Captain Lernoult you may be assured Sir, will do all that is possible with the weak Garrison under his command to disappoint the Enemy's views. I am your Excellency's His Excellency most obliged & obedt. Servant General Haldimand MASON BOLTON I enclose a return of the repairs wanting at Niagara. [B 100, p 101]



Page 375


LOUIS CHEVALLIER TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

375

LOUIS CHEVALLIER TO GEN FREDERICK HALDIMAND. [Translation.] ST JOSEPH SIR 28h Feb. 1779. The letter which you have honored me with the protection which all faithful subjects find in you, the marks of distinction which you have shown to Amable, give me confidence & confirm me in the resolution which I have already taken to expose wholesale to your light the character of the Poutawatamie Nation. I am however persuaded that the permission which all the nations have of representing to you in their own way their minds does not furnish a Just idea of the motives of those here. It is thirty years Sir since I came among them & have tried to understand them ever since I have had the honor of speaking to them on behalf of your most gracious Majesty. This nation in general is very inconsistent in its friendships but never in its hatred, wavering in their good resolutions even on the point of abandoning them. Timid in danger, proud & haughty when they believe themselves in safety, credulous to the last degree easily led away by great promises & frightened by threats. These are the two means that the Rebels use to corrupt part of this nation. I say corrupt, that is to say lead them away from the obedience they owe their father. The evil is almost without a remedy, it is not without trouble that I have arrested the progress of this corruption, they began to slide away in the principal village who were so much disposed to it that they had the name of taking part against the enemies of the state. It does not seem to me, however, impossible to keep this nation in dependance, if they were united under the same chief, but divided as it is into six villages distant fifteen or twenty miles from each o.ther it is very difficult to impose this yoke. Each village has its own chief who disposes his young men according to his private ideas, too attentive to the poisoned speeches of certain traitors who sacrifice honor & duty to a sordid interest, they become deaf to the sweet words of their father & to any effort we can make to hold them after they are resolved. However I flatter myself that the expulsion of the Rebels would bring back to the right way those whom fear or hope had led away. 0 You ask me Sir, to let you know the reason why some of this nation has not been down to Montreal. I received an order from Major De Peyster to raise the Poutawata

Page 376


376

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

mies & send them to him but as they had no boats of their own to cross the Lake, I determined them, according to his advice to go to Detroit, they have been there. Governor Hamilton kept them as he was waiting, they told me your orders respecting the Rebels at the Illinois; he told them to hold themselves in readiness till he came again. When His Excellency did me the honor of communicating to me- his plans, I zealously tried to augment the number of those who followed him, but in spite of the wish I had to enlarge the number I could not lead more than fifteen of the Miamis, because they had already returned to their lands. They accompanied His Excellency to the post from whence he dismissed them well satisfied with them, as he tells me in a letter. He appeared disposed to meet them again in the spring. I will make them proceed when the number is more considerable, they would be destined for the Illinois, there to be honored with your august presence from Montreal. I am opposed Sir, as I have already said, to all that is contrary to the good of the service. I strive more and more to remove from these men the bad disposition which is met with in a part of this nation. I do my best to give my opinion conformable to the good of the state & acknowledge the great honor you have heaped upon me & only deserve to be Sir Your Excellencys very humble & very obedient servant Louis CHEVALLIER [B 100, p 191] SCHEDULE OF PAPERS BELONGING 'TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. Schedule of Papers which were in the Possession of John Campbell of Pittsburg when he was taken Prisoner & delivered by the Indians to Major de Peyster at Detroit, none:of which were ever returned to him though he made application to the Officers commanding every Post along the Communication to Canada and lastly to Governor Haldimand. In the name r 2 loan office Certificates for 600 Dollars of John 12 do for 500 do Campbell - 1 do for 200 do dated in Feby 1 do for 100 do 1779 Total 7500 Dollars William Oldham's receipt for 6,000



Page 377


MAJOR JEHU HAY'S PAROLE OF HONOR.

377

Squire Boon's two Bonds for 250 Virg Cury. &c to Robert Elliot.assigned to J. Campbell. Patent from the Colony of Virginia to Charles de Wamsdorff for 2000 acres of land. Part of Lease & Release to John Campbell & John Conolly of the same land by Charles Wamsdorff. Article of agreement between John Campbell & John Conolly. Warrant from the Earl of Dunmore to John Campbell for 2000 acres of Land in Fincastle County Virginia. Warrant from the same to Wm. Murray for same quantity in same county. Order from John Barrackman or Jas Sullivan favour John Campbell supposed to be for 400 Dollars. Conveyance from John Conolly to John Campbell. Sundry other Parchments & Papers which will show they belong to said Campbell. [B 175, p 299] MAJOR JEHU HAY'S PAROLE OF HONOR. ST. VINCENNES March 1st 1779. This certifies that I have given my Parole of Honor to Colonel George Rogers Clarke Commanding the American Forces at this place that I will not attempt to make my escape from this place, nor will I 'by word or action behave unbecoming a prisoner at large neither will in any manner convey intelligence to the Subjects of His Britannic 'Majesty in Arms against the States of America in witness whereof I have hereunto sign'd my name without compulsion. [signed] JEHU HAY Major Detroit Militia Endorsed 1779 Major Jehu Hays Parole of Honor dated St. Vincennes 1st March Reed. 24 Nov. [B 184-1, p 118] GEN. FREDERIOK HALDIMAND TO LIEUT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. [Translation.) QUEBEC 15h March 1779 SIR I strongly a2prove of your sending early in the Spring the presents, 4.5



Page 378


3.78

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

which you think absolutely necessary for the Indians of the Posts of Detroit and Michilimakinac and as we have yet time I ask you to send me a return of those which you can furnish from the King's Store at Montreal and those which you will have to buy (with the price). With respect to the powder, sent you last year being damaged, have the goodness to send me a demand for the quantity which you think necessary to replace it and I shall have it delivered from the Kings Store at Montreal. I remain with respect [signed] Sir &c FRED: HALDIMAND [B 113, p 10] NATHANIEL DAY TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. MONTREAL 18th March 1779 SIR Since I had the Honor of writing to Your Excellency of the 15th Inst, I received two Letters one from Detroit, the other from Niagara, the copies of which I here enclose, with a sample of the Flour, now on transport from hence to Lachine, for the supply of the Upper Posts, which I humbly submit for your Excellency's consideration. I beg leave to remind your Excellency, that I am unhappily situated having frequent demands from the Inhabitants upon me for Fresh Beef &c. I give them fair promises, but cannot discharge their accounts till your Excellency is pleased to grant me money for that Purpose. I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect Your Excellency's most obliged obedient and very Humble Servant His Excellency NATHL DAY General Haldimand Commissy General Endorsed No 22 1779 Mr. Commissary General Day enclosing two Letters of the Commissarys at De. troit and Niagara, of 18h March Reed 20h [B 191, p 58] CAPT. JOHN SCHANK TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. SOREL 26h March 1779. DR SIR I was favored with a letter from Lieut Genevay the 22d inst. which



Page 379


CAPT. JOHN SCHANK TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

379

I would have answered this day's post, I am now to beg should Your Excellency not want the three new gun Batteaux at this place that you will be pleased to approve of my taking them to the upper Lakes for the service of Carleton Island & Niagara, and that will replace all the difference of what I expected done above at the different Dock-yards, the sails and other stores wanted for the new constructed gun Boats or Row Galleys. I gave orders three months ago and shall send the whole up the moment the navigation opens all being ready at St. Johns. I beg leave to say that by Letters and returns from Niagara and Detroit the naval arrangements will go on tolerable well, I have great pleasure from the favorable account I received from Lt. Col. Bolton of the Row Galley and his approving the arrangements I made I shall not trouble your Excellency with the number of letters from Carleton Island as I hope your orders will enable me to settle the Naval Department at that Place the moment I arrive, Lieut Chiquets Letter being in French I have taken a copy & sent you his. Inclosed I send you a drawing of the Row galley sent me by Mr. Coleman, Master Builder, who I beg leave on every opportunity to recommend'to Your Excellency in hope the notice you shall please to take of him will entice him to remain in this country for the good of His Majesty's Service. I beg you will allow me to engage Twenty Shipwrights in case the above should chuse to return according to their agreement with your Excellency which ends in Sept next, should your Excelly not come up soon I must beg leave to acquaint you that I have a great deal to lay before you, before I proceed to the Upper Lakes. I shall leave this on Tuesday the 30h to pay the seamen agreeable to your orders as I have hitherto been fortunate with Rebel Prisoners and Deserters who engaged with me I beg your Excellency will indulge me to enter such as I may find are seamen amongst those I hear are come to St Johns where I shall remain untill I have your further orders. I am &c JOHN SCHANK His Excellency General Haldimand [B 141, p 96]



Page 380


~380 HALDIMAND PAPERS. RETURN & STATE OF ENGINEERS STORES TAKEN AT MICHILIMACKINAC 31ST. MARCH 1779

(D CD CD z P-.4 (1) + U ~

Blacksmith's Tools: Bellows prs ---------------------------:------------------------------------1--1-1 Anvil---------------------------------------------------------- I------ ------ ------1........ Sledge Hammer---------------------------------------------------------I- 1...............-- Hand Hammers --------------------------------------------------------- 1 1 ----- ------ Bench Vice------------------------:------------------------------------- 1...............--- Handdo------------------------------------------ 1------ ------ ------1....... Screw plate. ----------- --- - ------------------------- ----------- 1 1 Nail Tool-------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ 1 1 Hardie.-------------------------------- I-------------------------------- ------ ------ 1 1 Files of Sorts ----------------------------------------------------------- 14 --- 40 40 -Steel------------------------- lbs --------------------------- ---------------- 41Y4-----...- --- Iron------------------------- lbs -------------------------------------------- 551/ ----- ------ ------,Old Iron---------------------- lbs--------------------------------------------- 27------ ------ ------ Twenty four penny nails-----lbs -------------------------------------------- 474Y% ---------- *Ten penny do.-- ----- bs --------------------------------------------- 63 ---- --------- Spike do------lbs-------------------------------------------- 25% ------...........-.Sawyers Tools:Whip Saws--------------------------------- -----------------------------5 ----- ------ ------ Cross cut do-------------------------------------------------------------5 --- 3 3 Saw Setts-------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ 2 2 Iron Dogs -------------------------------!------------------------------- 2...............-Carpenter's Tools: Hand Saws ---------------------- --------- --- 3 ------ ------ ----- Tennett do---------------------------*-- ---------------------------------2 ----- ------ ------ Felling Axes ---------------------------------------------------------- 25 9--- 0 9 Adzes-------------------------------------------------------------------7 --- 1 1 Broad Axes-------------------------------------------------------------- 1 1 2 2 Claw'd Hammer. -------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ 1 1 Long Planes------------------------------------------------------------ -381 1 Jack do --------------------------------------------------------------2 --- 2 2 Rabbit do------------------------------------------------------------ ----- 1---1 Iron Squares..-----------------S------------------------------ ---------- Chissels of sorts-------------------------------------------------------. 4 ---- 5 5 Gouges -------------------------------- i--------------------------------- 4 1 21, 2 Augrea -------------------------------------------- I------------------- 14... 4 4 Compasses------------------*---------------------------,----- ------ 1 1 11 Gimblets ------ ----------------------- 4---------------------------------2 1 14



Page 381


RETURN OF STORES AT MICHILIMACKINAC, RETURN & STATE 'OF ENGINEERS STORES, ETC.-Comtinued.

381

00 Drawhing do--ni ----ee-------------------------------------------------- 2---4 - Trowdlstones--------------------------------------------------- 5------ ------ ------2 Maonpe's Tools: Stointers--Hammers ---------------------------------------------- 2------ ------ ------8 Lathing dovs---------------------------------------------------------- 21-------1--- Strowels -------------------------------------------------------------52' Cooper's ngTools: PoinkAers--------------------------------------------------------------- 28. Hpawes-----g --Knives --------------------------------- W-------------- 19------11 1 Stavels--do---------------------------------------------------------2---- ------ ------22 2 IrnCroxes ------------------------------------------------------------- 28-------- --- Spandels---------------------------------------------------------------1 10 10-- Shovels----ws--------------------------------------------------------------- 22 221 Hand do ---------------------------------------------------------------- 2 --------- At S. DE PEYSTER Major Endorsed: Return & State of the Engineer's Store at Michilimackinac 31st March 79 Reo d 30h May. [B 156, p 133]



Page 382


382 HALDIMAND PAPERS. RETURN & STATE OF ORDNANCE STORES TAKEN AT MICHILIMACKINAC 31ST MARCH 1779.



I -

Ordnance: Heavy six Pounders, Iron. - ---------------------------------- Light six Pounders Brass.--------------------------------------------- Ambuzettes Brass blown in the vent ------------------------------------ Cohoen Brass on Wooden Bed ------------------------------------------ Wall pieces----------------------------------------------------------- Carriages: Travelling six Pounders ---------------------------------- Garrison six Pounders --------------------------- Garrison Ambuzettes ----------------------------- Side Arms for Guns Ladles for six Pounders --------------------------- Spunges for six Pounders........................................------- Wadhooks of sorts ---------------------------------------------------- Dregg ropes with prim setts --------------------------- --------------- Hand spikes Traversing........................................------- Hand do pinching----------------------------------------------------- Aprons of lead.--------------------------------------------------- ---- Leather Pouches ----------------------------------------------------------- Tube Boxes.......................................................---------- Slow Match lbs ------------------------------------- ----------------------- Linstocks------------------------------------------------------------------ Porbfires ------------------------------------------------------------------- Portfiresticks -------------------------------------------------------------- Tin Tubes------------------------------------------------------------------ Priming Horns------------------------------------------------------------- Priming Wires- -- -- --------------- ---- ---- ----- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ------ Vent Punches -------------------------------------------------------------- Vent Spikes---------------------------------------------------------------- Com'd Powder lbs --------------------------------------------- Round Shott on the Bastions ----------- - ----------------- Round do with cartridge filled & -------------------------------------- Case do with cart do fix'd & do------------------------------------- Round do fixed to wooden Bottoms only------------------------------------- Case do fix'd to do do do ---------- ------------ Case do one &a half ounce mix'd lbs ---------------------------------------- - Grape Shot for Ambuzettes Round------------------- ----------------------- -

43 04

2 2 4 1 2 2 4 4 2 4 4 2 2 10 9 4 4 26 4 5 5 78 4 4 2 10



2

818 1j

405 88 800

122 90 24

31 122 90 2U





Page 383


RETURN OF ORDNANCE AT MICHILIMACKINAC. 383 RETURN & STATE OF ORDNANCE sr0RE,3, 'ETC.-Continwel. aD Live shells with damaged. f uses--------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ 29 29 Empty do on the Bastions ----------------------------------------------------- 9 Sheep Skins ----------------------------------------------------------------- 2 --------- Sponge Tacks ---------------------------------------------680 --- ------ Empty paper Cartridge8 6 Pdrs............................13------ ------ ----------------------------- Thread lbs-------------------------------------------------------------- ii--------13 Musqnett Ball lbs----------------------------------------------------------- 1381 --- ------ Tann'd Hides ----------------------------------------------------------------1 ---- 1 Spare copper hooks ---------------------------------------------------------- 85 --- ------ Nave Grease lbs -------------------------------------------- 2 --- ------ Mens Setts)ii- -a'e' ------------------------------------------------------------ ------ 2------- Horse do ------------------------------------------------------------- ------ 3------- Reams Qu~ires - --Car -- - - -- -- ----ridge- - --- - -- --- -- --- --Paper- - - - - - - - - - For Masqtiet Cartridge ---------Formers---------- 4 ----------- For Carbine do -------------------------------------------------------- 2 --------- Mnsquett)ilif --------------------------------------------------------------5240----------- Carbine ------------------------------------------------------------------ 780 --- ------ Iron Beam Weights & Scales setts --------------------------------------------- 1 --------- AT. S. DE PEYSTER Major. Endorsed: Return & State of Ordnance Stores taken at Michilimackinac 31st March 1779 Recd 30th MaB 156, p 135] MAJOR JOHN BUTLER TO GEN. FREDERICK HA.LDIMAND. No 19 From Major Butler to General Haldimand NIAGARA SI R, April 2d 1779. I send you inclosed a letter from Mr. Hay which I received by yesterday's Express from Detroit. Your Excellency will perceive by its contents that Mr. Hay when he wrote it had not at all a favourable



Page 384


384

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

different if it should be a means of making them Join the rebels whether it will have any influence with the six nations it is impossible to say tho' as affairs are at present situated I think it not improbable that it may incline them to listen more than they have hitherto done to the artful messages which the Rebels are continually sending among them I send your Excellency herewith the copy of a message which was delivered to the Cayougas at their village by two Cachnawgoes Indians (the principal one is called Ot he re Se) in the name of the Seven Nations of Canada, these are the same two who were at Oneida at the Council held there between the Oneidas & Onandagoes were they spoke much to the same purpose. An account of this Council I gave your Excellency in my last. the Cayougas took no notice of their message nor made them any reply. In conjunction with the Mohawks & others I have sent to the Onandagoe Village to desire those who are still our friends there to come off and bring their council fire with them to some place among the Senecas & Cayougas there to settle & rekindle their fire which I expect they will do Your Excellency may rest assured that I shall do every thing in my power to counteract the artifices of the Enemy & confirm the Indians in their friendship & attachment to government. The Senecas Delawares & Others have been very active during the winter Parties of them have been constantly out all along the Frontiers & they have had several skirmishes with the rebels at Wioming of whom they have killed about twenty & taken several with the loss one man only There are now between four or five hundred in different places. Several parties from the Ohio (where I have two Indian officers) are returned & have brought in fourteen prisoners from below Fort Pitt, one of them from one hundred & twenty miles below it who as Lieut Dockstader writes me says that all the people from that part of the Country were moving down to Lancaster. He further writes that a large party of Indians (about 200) from about Detroit have been lately at the Tuscarawas where they took two Prisoners & sixteen scalps but hearing of some boats coming up the River with Provisions for the Garrison under a guard of one hundred men (fifty on each side of the river) they set off immediately to attack them, what success they met with is not yet known. The chiefs from the Ohio have sent me one of their Prisoners a Committee man he informs me that there were about fifty men in Fort Pitt. Does not know the number at Beaver Creek and the Tuscarawas, but says they have been reinforced this Spring & that 'the force intended against Detroit is to be about one thousand men He likewise



Page 385


JOSEPH HOWARD TO LOUIS GENEVAY.

385

says that it was reported that last Fall 5000 of the Kings Troops landed in South Carolina & took possession of the sea Ports, but were again driven off after some time by the Rebels. I dayly expect here two men who made their escape from Fort Pitt and were brought in by some Ohio Indians last winter. I have just received Your Excellency's Letter of the 25h December & shall punctually observe its contents. I ever have and always shall use my utmost endeavours to restrain the Indians from acts of cruelty and indiscriminate vengeance which both as a man & an officer I hold in abhorrence. Col. Bolton informs me that Your Excellency seems to think the allowance of Bounty money to the Rangers on Inlistment rather unreasonable & not agreeable to the Intention of General Carleton, to satisfy your Excellency in regard to this I enclose you a copy of an account sent to Sir Guy Carleton, wherein this allowance is charged which he never made any objection to. I have the honor &c. [signed] JOHN BUTLER. P. S. Col. Bolton has ordered fifty of the Rangers under Capn. Caldwell to be ready to sett off for Detroit the 5th Instant. [B 96-1, p 151] JOSEPH HOWARD TO LOUIS GENEVAY. MONTREAL 4th April 1779. SIR I purposed setting out for Michillimakinac the 16th of this month shd be much obliged to you if you would give my respects to his Excellency the Governor and let him know of my intention and should he want to send any letters or other commands I shall be exceedingly happy in being of any service to government His Excellency should there be any Form or ceremony that might stopp my proceedings on my way at the time I mentioned I hope His Excellency will be pleased to pass over that part and I will answer for my people that they shall not commit any acts of rebellion or do any other act contrary to the law & customs of this country, that's in my power to prevent, some indulgences of this 'kind have been granted to me by His Excellency General Carleton in time past. Mrs Howard joins in compts & begs you will be so good as to see Jack and talk with him a little & find 49



Page 386


386'

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

out if he is in good health when I left Quebec he had symptoms of worms. I am Sir Your obedt. very humble Servant JOSEPH HOWARD P. S. Please to favour me with a line by return of Post as much depends upon my setting of early this spring for the Upper Country having several dubious debts, which I may recover sh' I arrive early at Michillimakinac Addressed:-Louis Genevay Esq Secretary to His Excellency General Haldimand at Quebec Endorsed:From Joseph Howard 1779 of 4h April ans d 12th The substance of the letter I wrote to Mr Joseph Howard wasThat the General had postponed signing any pass or licence for the upper Posts for some time but that whenever he was determined to sign them I should remember his application. It was dated the 12th April. [B 184-2, p 636] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM. ASI QUEBEC 8th April 1779. As it is necessary I should be exactly informed of the actual state of the Posts we occupy from Lachine to Detroit I have Judged it right to Dispatch you thither, that you may examine them upon the spot with the most critical attention, as well with regard to their Fortifications as to all that may contribute towards their future security. Referring myself in this respect to my verbal and written instructions upon the subject, I have only to observe that in case circumstances and the good of the service require it, I hereby authorize you to give orders to the several commanding officers in my name, to do whatever you Judge absolutely necessary for that purpose, such orders to be in writing and signed by you, copies whereof to be transmitted here whenever occasion offer. You will use all possible diligence and neglect no opportunity of informimg me of your proceedings and Progress, charging Mr. Mauser



Page 387


GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL.

387

to whom you will direct your Letters for me to forward those by Express you Judge necessary to have transmitted with Expedition. Wishing you a propserous Journey and speedy return I remain with perfect Regard Endorsed: [Copy] Letter to Capt Brehm April 8th 1779. [B 99, p 12] GFN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC 8th April 1779. SIR, I have received your letter of 22nd of March and tho I expect a large supply of goods by the first vessels from England for the use of the Indian Department yet to prevent any inconvenience to the service I wish you to buy up whatever articles you have not in your store and which you may Judge necessary for the immediate supply of the District of Michillimakinac and you will cause them to be packed so as they may be forwarded as soon as the navigation will permit, you will please also to send some trusty person from your Department to take the charge of them till they are delivered to the commanding officer of Michilimakinac. As Mr. Goddard's former Residence among the upper Nations will enable him to Judge of the goods fittest for their use I would wish you to employ him in the choice and purchas of those at present wanted. Tho I mean that you would only buy a sufficiency to serve till the arrival of the goods from England yet I wish you to send so much as may prevent our being under a necessity of having recourse to Traders in the upper Country who (as you observe) will charge their own prices. You will deliver the damaged powder into the Artillery store at Montreal taking proper receipts, and you will please to enform me what quantity you Judge necessary to send at present to Michilimakinac that it may be supplied and put in the small kegs in which at present is the damaged Powder if they should be found more convenient for transportation than larger. I will cause an enquiry to be made respecting the Indian goods missing from the Diana. It will be necessary that you provide a considerable quantity of Deerskin for the use of any Indians that may be wanted for the service in the course of the summer if you have not already bought them and you will be so good as to transmit me an estimate of the



Page 388


388

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Expense of the Purchas of the goods for Michilimakinac as soon as possible and I hope as this is only intended as a supply till the others arrive from England that the sum will not be considerable. Lt. Col. Campbell Copy of a Letter from His Excellency Genl. Haldimand to Lieut Colo I Campbell dated Quebec 8th April 1779 [B 113, p 14] MRS. S. BLIZARD TO THOMAS BENTLEY. LONDON April 8th 1779 DEAR BROTHER I still supose you at Montreal which must be in every respect not only disagreeable, but a loss of time which is to be lamented as a thing not to be regained and if continued must be I fear utter destruction; as to my affairs they must grow wors and wors withoute some relief, as to thoas that protest a regard and friendship for me and mine it is proved to be no more than to amuse for a time and whilst I had a little of my own to take of I did not want a relief, but now it is said indeed Mrs. Blizard I cannot assist you my own family is large & expensive, notwithstanding that refusal, some time after I tooke courage and asked my professed friend and cousin if he would send me two hundred pounds which was refused as indeed I expected. Now to inform you the advantage of this money to me a lady of fashion and off the first family in England would secure me fifty Pounds pr. year for three hundred so long as it was convenient for her to keep it. I found a friend to lend me one hundred such is the prisent state of affairs hear that if I had the sum wanted it would have made me happy but that is not to be and money is at twenty pr. sent common interest how is it possible for a person to live who has no money and but very little credit I have put my eldest girle apprentice to a Miliner the fee to be given with her was thirty pounds ten has been pay'd which was a prisent for that purpose the other twenty I am not limited to time but wish to do it within the twelve months which will comence Xmas next she is bound for four years, after that time I make no doubt she will be able to do for herself and sisters but how they are to be support'd till that time I do not know. At prisent it is a thought that is distressing beyond expression. Dear Brother, you must excuse and not blame me for laying before you the prisent state of my affairs and believe me was I not particularly afflicted and oprest I would avoid making your situation more disagreeable as I am confident your feelings for me and mine are close united and will

/



Page 389


INSTRUCTIONS TO CAPT. DEDERICK BREHIM.

389

be sensably afflicted at my distress as I am at yours but as that will not redress or asswaig our sorrows we must turn to the World and live upon the Wing of Hope which has been to me a great suport along with patience & perseverance directed by the hand of Providence but totally neglected by Dame Fortune which I could moast severely abuse bud do not think her worth the trouble, therefore leave her and turn to that great and good God who is the disposer of all things and will when he thinks fit seas to afflict and give ous comforts not yet thought of nor expected and may you and I live to be envyed and not to be pityed for thats' a old comfort to say I pity your distress but I cannot relieve it, as to my part I have no hope but providence which has not been very kind to me this year. London has not fill'd this winter consequently I have not let my lodgings and when I do not you may a shore your self it is a grievance that I cannot shake off; the rent of my house is five and forty pounds a year and taxes twelve when not let it is miserable as it is my whole dependence and that I fear I must soon part from. what seam will open to me afterwards I know not but as I have said before leave that to providence I hope by this time that you have had an account from your dear wife and that your affairs are going on well, our niece Mary Bentley is with her grandmother and well but made to believe that her father's relations will never take any notice of her thats Policy of her mother in Law. You will think it strainge take no notice of any Relations, Friends I have none that you know but thoas I have are great in consequence but not in power tho will in futur time be of service to me and mine. I wish you to write to Mr. Norton as he has very sivoley (civilly) sent to inquire after your health but hope you will before you receive this my fower children are before me begs you to accept thare duty and to make a tender of the same to that dear aunt which they wish much to see my love and sincere affection you must also remember and dear Brother believe me to be your afflicted but very Affectionate sister S. BLIZARD. [B 185-1, p 35] INSTRUCTIONS TO CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM. [Translation] Observations necessary for Capt Brehm to make on his route between Lachine & Detroit. He shall notice the most suitable place for a store to contain 5 or 600 barrels of provisions.



Page 390


390A

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

On mounting the rapids to notice the places most exposed to attack & the precautions it will be necessary to take to avoid this. If we cannot facilitate the passage of batteaux. If there are not some convenient places for building redoubts for the defence of the Rapids. What is necessary to maintain Oswegatchie. If the Artillery there would not be more useful at Oswego. At Carleton Island. Examine the situation of the Fort, the possibility of attack & the means of defending it. If the land is good for cultivation & order it to be planted immediately. If there is not some other Island near which is good for cultivation. At Niagara. What is the state of the fortifications & if they could not be strengthened. If it would not be necessary to make a portage for its safety. Examine the state of the Artillery, ammunition & provisions, recommend the greatest economy & see if the orders in this regard are well executed. Examine the plan of defence which the commandant would make in case he was attacked from Lake Erie. The same if he was attacked from Oswego. Allow no trader to go to Sandusky or Presqu' Isle. Closely watch the Lake to see if the Rebels are building batteaux there. Send some scouts in all directions immediately so as to have their report when they come to Detroit. Employ the Indians as much as possible & in the most advantageous way but recommend humanity to them. Employ their women to plant much grain in their villages to save our provisions. Send all prisoners & useless mouths to Canada but give express orders that they do not go near Carleton Island nor Oswegatchie. Employ the Indians, but especially the Chavanes & Delawares to strike & cut off this communication with the Mississippi. What force is it necessary to have to maintain Niagara & the dependancies. Consult upon the difficulty of transporting provisions there. The expense of the Indians is immense, see that there is no abuse, & how it can be overcome. Find out the state of the Marine & the use they would be against an enemy who made use of Batteaux. 22. The same observations can be made at Detroit. It would also



Page 391


INSTRUCTIONS TO CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM.

391

be necessary to know what help might be drawn from the inhabitants & order an exact & general sensus. 23. Also to know the number of Indians on whom we could count. 24. In case of attack it is necessary to arrest all suspected persons & send them to Niagara. 25. To put all the goods into the Fort or on board the vessels & also that provisions except those absolutely necessary be left with any inhabitant & those destroyed which can not be put in security. 26. Have Hogg Island cultivated & Long Island also if possible to save provisions? 27. Make invoice (?) of the Mississippi & remarks after each name so that the good subjects may be distinguished. 28. Take particular care that neither the vessels nor batteaux be surprised & in case of attack send to Niagara for reinforcements. 29. If the enemy marches against the Indians without defeat, the Rangers & Volunteers must try to cut off his communication. 30. If it is found necessary to build some new works or repair the old at the different posts-Order them immediately on my behalf & give the necessary instructions to the Engineers. 31. If on passing Carleton Island he has certain notice that Niagara or the Detroit -was attacked or in danger of being he shall immediately give orders on my behalf to send to Niagara as many men & provisions as can be spared. 32 If on arriving in Detroit that it runs no risk of being attacked, he shall consult with Capt Lernoult to see what help could be sent to Lt. Govr Hamilton & he (Capt. Lernoult) will immediately execute that shall be Judged necessary for the good of the service, & will write to that effect to Lt Govr Hamilton. 33 He shall gather all the knowledge he can at Michillimakinak & write to Major De Peyster. 34 He will also give instructions respecting the Marine Department on the different Lakes & on the advantageous changes which he can make & inform Mons (Capt Schanks) Schanks minutely on his return. 35 On going to Niagara he shall give to Major Butler the speeches which I have sent to the Indians to encourage them to be firm in their alliance. Joseph Brant remains there & if he thinks it nesessary will stay there till his return. 36 I will assure Molly, Brant's sister who is widow of Chevallier Johnson that I will take care of her & of her children & if she would send some to Canada B$ant could bring them & they would be put to school.



Page 392


392

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

37 Returning from Niagara he will pass by Oswego to examine what amount of fortification it would be necessary to construct to assure the posts safety. 38 He will give orders at Carleton Island to slack much lime. 39 Desiring to have 4 light batteaux for expresses of which two would be stationed at Lachine & two at Carleton Island. He will give orders that the batteaux be kept at Lachine under padlock & that they are put to no other use but that of expresses. 40 He will furnish to Joseph Brant all he has need of on his voyage to Montreal. 41 He will buy at Montreal whatever Joseph Brant believes will please his sister Molly & take it himself to Niagara. 42 If he hears that the goods of Mackhown of Detroit are necessary to furnish the Indians, he will ask Colonel Bolton to let them pass. This must not be done unless absolutely necessary for fear of alarming the other merchants. 43 He must give notice to Mr. Robertson, merchant at Niagara, that since he charges 20 shillings pr gallon for the rum which he furnished to the King, I will repay him in kind. 44 If the time will permit him I wish he would visit the bays &c d'Irondegreat which is the place where the Mohawks wish to plant grain & to leave their women & children. It would be good to sound the depth of the Bay & find out if vessels can enter & also to see if it would be an advantageous position in which to build a post. 45 What it is necessary to give to Detroit of the goods the King's vessels have brought to Lake Erie. 46 That he muster the Rangers if he Judges necessary. 47 I will recommend very strongly to Ensign Davis who is at Oswegatchie to send Scouts often, with information of the Rebel's designs of attacking our neighborhood. 48 Take the Pierre a Tusil for Niagara. 49 If on passing Carleton Island he hears nothing to oblige him to quicken his journey to Niagara, in this case I wish he would pass by Oswego &c. &c. &c. QUEBEC 9h April 1779 Mr. Brehm left the same day in the evening with Joseph Brant F. H. N. B. Grant to the Detroit. Endoysed: Instructions for Mr. L. C. Brehm then at Detroit the 9th April 1779. [B 99, p 15]



Page 393


GEN. HALDIMAND TO MAJOR JOHN BUTLER.

393

SIR HENRY CLINTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NEW YORK 13th April 1779. SIR I have taken every opportunity of communicating with your Excellency this winter, by way of Halifax, as well as across the country, in order to give you all necessary information respecting the state of affairs in this part of the Continent; and I have now the honor to enclose extracts of such Intelligence as I have lately received relative to the Intentions of the Enemy to the Westward, which I have great reason to credit. With respect to my own situation, if I am enabled to act offensively, it will not be so much owing to my own force, as to the want of it in the Enemy. From various causes Mr. Washington has not as yet been able to complete his army of what they call Continental Troops. But he may with that small Force, take such Positions in this Strong Country as are not to be attacked, and 'till I am properly reinforced, I shall not probably attempt forcing him to Action but employ what Troops can be spared in Expeditions, one of which shall be to counteract, if possible, that which the Rebels intend against Detroit. I have the honor to be Your Excellency's most obedient and His Excellency most hble servant General Haldimand H. CLINTON Endorsed: From General Sir Henry Clinton New York April 13th received by Major Holland June 6th 1779. [B 147, p 43] ______ GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO MAJOR JOHN BUTLER. QUEBEC 18th April 1779 SIR, I have received your letter of the 2nd Inst. and from the accounts received of Governor Hamilton's Disaster I cannot but feel great concern and anxiety, lest it should cause a change in the disposition of some Tribes of Indians, whose capricious tempers are easily warped by the appearances of success & immediate advantages. The hitherto constant and approved good conduct of the Five Nations gives me reason to expect a continuation of their firmness & a vigorous exertion on their parts, to render void every attempt of the Rebels. Their example will greatly influence the other Nations to act in concert with them in opposing & repulsing the Invaders of their property. I am 50



Page 394


394

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

confident no pains or trouble will be spared on your part to keep the different tribes in the humour of acting for the service of the Crown and that argument will be made use of by you to convince them how severely they would feel a contrary Behaviour. You will observe by my letter of the 8th Inst. the reason which prevented my taking Post at Oswego last year, the same reasons still subsist, notwithstanding every effort to get up Provisions sufficient, before the navigation was obstructed last Fall. These difficulties I wish much to be removed & every means shall be attempted to favor my design of establishing a Post there, & sending a proper force to secure that communication. I have ordered your son to join you without delay, his former good conduct gives me room to expect he will exert himself much to the advantage of the service & to his own credit & honor by harassing the Rebels & thwarting as much as possible their plan of operations. I hope before this reaches you that my aid-de-camp Capt" Brehm has passed by Niagara, & that you have consulted with him on the matters he was charged to communicate to' you. I am Sir &c. &. [signed] FREDERICK HALDIMAND. Mlajor Butler. [B 105, p 123] LIEUT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. MONTREAL the 18th April 1779. SIR It was not in my power to write to your Excellency By the last poust as the Indians of Caughnawagi was with me these on the Businesses contained in your Letter delivered me by Capt. Brehm. I have now to inform you Sir, that your Letter to the Oneida Indians tho' listened to with great attention and seems to have the desired effect with them & I hope with their Deluded Brethren; It is to be delivered By six principal men of Caughnawagi, Lake of the two Mountains & St. Regis, who are to add something to it with wampum in the name of the Seven Villages in their country they are now considering what that shall be and are to make me acquainted with it as soon as possible. I have likewise to inform your Excellency that the goods for Major de Peyster are getting ready with the greatest diligence so that I hope to send them off from Point Claire By the 12th or 14th of May at farthest, the amount of goods which are now purchased will be about six hundred Pounds, the bad state of the Powder Bags is the reason



Page 395


GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON,

395

that article has suffered therefore new ones must be purchased, there is now in store six hundred Deer Skins smoaked & dressed fitt more mockasins. If I knew pretty near the number of them to be supplied with that article would make a provision for them accordingly, there is time enough to gett whatever quantity you think necessary before those in store can be consumed. I have the Honor to be with true respect His Excellency Sir, Your Excellency Genl. Haldimand most obedient Commander in Chief &c. humble Servant Quebec. JOHN CAMPBELL A Lt. Col. Campbell of Apl. 18th Reed. 22nd. [B 111, p 68] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC SIR, the 18h April 1779. I have received your letters of the 24th March and 2nd April with their several enclosures, in particular on account of the unfortunate affair at Poste St. Vincennes what with the different movements of the Rebels toward Sandusky and Presqu' Isle and the Ravages by the weather at your Post so well as that of Erie are truly alarming in regard to the consequences they may be of to the King's service, and will require the attention and powerful exertion of every officer to guard against. Before this reaches you Capt. Brehm my aid de camp charged with orders from me to the upper Posts, will I hope be with you, he is sensible, Intelligent resided for some years in the Upper Country, and will be able to give you good advice for the management of the King's affairs in those parts, at this critical and very serious Juncture. Provisions and Reinforcements when a sufficiency of the former has got up and the latter can be spared shall be forwarded with the utmost dilligence in the mean time write to Captain Lernoult, and try yourself to save everything in your power upon the article of provisions every practicable Resources within yourselves must be recurred to for that purpose. Till such time as you are Reinforced from below, I do not see that anything can be done with respect to the Rebels, hovering upon the



Page 396


396

9HALDIMAND PAPERS.

coasts between Lake Erie and Detroit, than to harrass them with small and multiplied parties of Rangers & Indians. To interupt their supplies of necessaries and provisions cut off and surprize their parties and keep them in perpetual alarms; Some scouts for the purpose of discovery only ought to be kept upon the Mohawk river to watch the motions of the Rebells that way to ascertain whether they are moving in Force toward Oswego, and what their schemes may be for the ensuing campaign. Such are the only dispositions that I can think of, to be made for the present, every endeavour must be used, every nerve exerted, for the preservation of the Upper Posts. They are of such essential service to the King of such utility to the Trading Interest of this country that no measures ought to be neglected that can possibly be taken for their Protection & security. I have sent Captain Butler to your post his former conduct gives me great hopes that he will exert himself in everything in his power to forward and promote the King's Service, particularly in such critical Junctions as we are in, I have given him a warrant for the pay of the Corps of Rangers to the 24th June next, and write on the, subject of Major Butler, copy of the letter I herewith enclose for yr information. Ten blank commissions are also enclosed vizt one for a captain, Four for First Lieutenants, and Five for Second Lieutenants, which you'll please to fill up with the officers names, and the day of the month. The memorandum which Major Butler sent me applying for them accompany this. Captain Schanks the Commissioner of the Lakes is just arrived here from Sorel, he will set out for the Upper Posts in a few days and will take with him some Boats and Naval Stores &c to put your Navy on as good footing as possible. I am Sir &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND P. S. I also send you a copy of the letter I wrote to Major De Peyster enclosed in Cap~t. Brehm's letter of the 19th Instant. [B 104, p 9] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. S QUEBEC 18th April 1779. SIR, I have received your Letter with its inclosures, the Recommendation you sent meets with my approbation, and the promotion shall appear



Page 397


C. GAUTIER TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER.

397

in orders to morrow, the changes you have made in the prisoners, and the one you propose making, you have my permission to do. The prisoners escaped from Fort Chambly, you will order to be tried and punished, this example will I hope in future make the Soldier more diligent upon his post and carefull, in the exact discharge of his Duty. Being very desirous of hearing how matters stand at Albany & Schenectady I hope you continue sending frequent scouts out. Mr. Fraser I have ordered to your Post. he is a very intelligent man, and who wishes to attempt Discovering the situation of things in those parts, you may send him off whenever you please, I have received the very disagreeable news of Lt. governor Hamilton being taken Prisoner with his garrison of 80 men at post Vincenne. I am &ca [Signed] F. H. C. GAUTIER TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. [Translation.] To Major de Peyster SIR Having heard that Governor Hamilton was coming to the post to continue his expedition in the Spring I am on my way to give him help by the Mississippi with 280 men, Puants, Follesavoines, Renards, Qttawas & Santeaux after paying all indispensible expenses I have descended the Mississippi as far as Riviere la Roche & on the 4th of April I found the Sacques & Sieur la Main (broken hand) Cassie to whom I began to speak on your part but he shut his ears & would listen to nothing & even laughed at the threats you had made to the Sacques & Renards last Autumn, that if you saw that they were with the Bostonians you would keep back the traders. He answered me, he & all others had arrows for their living & that they were not alarmed by that. Not content with his insolence they made me deliver 120 prisoners & I believe if they had been stronger they would have seized me & delivered me to the Bostonians. I continued my route with the rest of my party till I perceived the Sauvoix & Sacques of Wisconsin who were all there & arrived on the 6th. I have not found your children but I have found the Bostonian Sacques they refused me after I had spoken to them on your behalf having received the words of the Rebells & threatened to give intelligence of my march to the Bostonians. At the time of this council the news arrived that Gov. Hamilton was taken which caused murmurs in my little camp, however the Puants & Follesavoines assured me that they would never



Page 398


398 '

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

forget their father & would moreover die for him, for when it was necessary & to leave there on the 7th they reported the ambush of the Sacques, as -you know you were informed by the Sauteaux of all that passed by one of their war chiefs. I hear from the Puants that they are going to see you, if Carmanis presents himself before me I hope that you will (savonnenez la Tete) soap his head, he has done all he could to stop the young Puants. I have told Quindinaque that you desire to see him to speak to him & that he has promised me that he will come & I have taken a Bostonian commission which I will send you in the letter which I have the honor of writing you. You know that a man called Aungnow has killed a Renard woman & he has been killed for his crime by the Renards. I hope in a short time to be able to give you an account of my mission & to inform you more fully of these rascally nations. Permit me to send Madame my respects. I am with profound respect Your very humble & very obedient servant [Signed] C. GAUTIER La Baye 19th April 1779 [B 97-1, p 100] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO CAPT. DEDERICEt$BREHM. [Translation.] QUEBEC 19th April 1 779. SIR I received very disagreeable letters from Niagara & Detroit & before they could reach you I hope you will be in the places & properly informed of the state of things & counting on your prudence & zeal for the good of the service, I hope by means of the instructions I have given you, you will be able to secure these posts & repair the works & I am persuaded that if the Rangers & active Indians will oppose them, that the Rebels cannot penetrate to our Posts. On my part I will do all I can to send provisions there & some troops when I have the means to feed them. I sent Colonel Carleton to Montreal to hurry the convoy. Capt. Schanks will also leave in a few days for Carleton Island with all that is necessary for our Marine on the lakes, he takes with him about a hundred sailors & some officers. I have not been able to give passports for Detroit nor the upper country untill I receive your news, & am better informed I hope through waiting to have more Canadians to conduct the batteaux.



Page 399


SIR HENRY CLINTON TO COL. BUTLER AND GEN. HALDIMAND. 399 I hope you have sent to Niagara a part of the gains of Carleton Island & all the provisions that could be spared, & that by this means Colonel Bolton would have been able to send a second reinforcement to Detroit. I see with pain by a letter from Capt. Lernoult that the inhabitants do not appear well disposed, I hope you will find means to bring them back to their duty & arrest the most mischievious, we cannot picture the embarrasment into which the imprudence & presumption of the Lt. Genl. has plunged us by his vigorous acts. It will perhaps be necessary in your meeting with Mr. Lernoult for you to appoint some one to have care of the Indians while waiting for the return of Mr. Hamilton or Mr. Hay but it would not be necessary that he should have power to meet expenses & that Capt. Lernoult alone could order them but if the service can be managed without naming such a person it would be better. I enclose a letter for Major de Peyster which I left open for you to read and add what circumstances require. I write you this by Capt. Butler on whose activity & good will I count much to keep back the Rebels. I remain very faithfully Sir Your very humble & very obedient servant [signed] FRED HALDIMAND. Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from His Excellency Genl. Haldimand to Captain Brehm Dated Quebec 119th April 1779. S[B 99, p 29] SIR HENRY CLINTON TO COL. BUTLER AND GEN. HALDIMAND. received 31st May. NEW YORK April 21st 1779. SIR I have reason to imagine that the Rebels mean to make an attack upon Detroit this Spring, and I am informed, they intend to make a feint on the Susquhannah, in order to draw the attention of Colonel Butler and the Indians from the other Quarter. H. CLINTON. To Colonel Butler & General Haldimand [B 147, p 47]



Page 400


400

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. THOMAS CARLETON. QUEBEC April 30th SIR 1779. I hope you arrived safe and are now earnestly employed in pushing: forward the Transport of Provision, on w" so much depends. I desire you will be very strict in discovering and punishing all men,. who may desert, or be disobedient when employed on this duty. As the Publick service will not permit me to allow any goods to be sent away, untill I have Intelligence from Detroit, I cannot doubt but the Merchants will cheerfully assist with Batteaux & men our present Transport, & I am extremely anxious that we push this service with all dispatch. I apprehend Capt. Bouchette has already passed you in his way to, Lake Ontario, and Capt. Shank with Several Batteaux loaded with Naval Stores, will very soon be with you. I desire you may assist himn with such Pilots as may enable him to proceed with expedition andsafety. If the officer and 20 men from the Emigrants are not already gone to the Great River, I desire they may be sent as soon as possible with the strictest orders that no Boat, Batteaux, or Canoes whatever pass their Post without producing my Pass. I am with regard Sir Your most obedt. hb"l Servt [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Lieut Col. Carleton [B 188, p 36] LETTER TO JAMES MONK ESQ. SIR The General desires a commission may be immediately made out impowering John Schank Esq r to swear in such commissioners of the Peace as His Excellency has already granted, or may hereafter grant, commissions to, at Detroit, Niagara or Michillimakinac. Endorsed: To James Monk Esq. A. G. 30h April 1779. [B 203, p 11] JOHN BRADLEY TO THOMAS BENTLEY. DEAR BENTLEY, I doubt not but that I have at length got hold of a thread which will immediately lead to your enlargement.



Page 401


GEN. HALDIMAND TO. LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL.

401

Mr. Livins the Chief Justice of Canada will leave England for thence soon after this and by whom you will receive letters of introduction; he is perfectly acquainted with every stage of villany you have met with and has represented them in proper colors to the Board of Trade. On his arrival at Quebec I beg you will make immediate application to him and you will receive instructions to proceed for your release which when obtained he will assist in drawing up a memorial to be presented to the Board of trade for redress from your persecutors and which you will address with a letter to Grey Elliott Esqr Plantation Office, who will conduct the business for you and assist your cause with proper force. When you write Mr. Elliott be cautious of your Expressions as your letter and memorial will be presented to Lord George. I will be more particular by Mr. Livins in the interim. I remain very sincerely Dear Bentley Your assured Friend JOHN BRADLEY. LONDON 5th May 1779 P. S. Your sister writes and therefore I need not say anything respecting your friends. Endorsed: Mr; Thomas Bentley. [B 185-1, p 39] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAMD TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC May 6th 1779. SIR, I herewith send you letters for Major De Peyster, which I wish to have forwarded with the Indian Presents for Michilimackinac, and I should be glad they were dispatched so soon as possible endeavour to procure the best men you can, but above all pay particular attention, that your principal conductor who has charge of the whole, is a trusty man and one you can depend upon, I am the more anxious for this because I hope by his vigilence to have any merchant returned to Montreal a Prisoner, who may have proceeded up the Grand River without my pass, in order to do this you must apply to Mr. Gray, and other Justices if necessary who upon receiving a proper information will I make no doubt grant a warrant to take up any merchant, who may be found up the Grand River without a proper pass, and consequently transgressing the Laws by an illicit Trade. I must rely upon you to conduct this Business as silently as possible that by punishing 51



Page 402


402

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

those.in a high station who disobey orders, I may hope in future that the Inhabitants will pay a proper regard to my Regulations, which I only make for the good of His Majesty's Service-You will do well to consult Col. Carleton on this subject that we may proceed legally in this affair, and yet punish with severity. I am &c [signed] FRED. HALDIMAND Lieut Col. Campbell. [B 113, p 21] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. QUEBEC May 6th 1779. SIR, Having already wrote to you by Captain Brehm, my aid de camp, who will communicate to you from Detroit, my orders in general respecting the security of your Post, I have only now to add that Lieut. Colo Campbell has my orders to send you by the Great Rivers, a considerable supply of Indian Presents, which I expect you will receive with this letter, & which I hope will for the present answer your demands, for I perceive that the charges made by the merchants in the Upper Country, are so exorbitant that we must contrive to take as little from them as possible, observing however not to delay the King's Service in any material point by our economy. A very large supply of Rum will also be sent to your Post by Detroit, so as I think to avoid any expence this year on that extravagant article. I am in hourly expectation of the ships from England and a proportion of the Indian Presents I shall receive by them, shall be sent immediately to your Post. I am with regard Sir, Major Your most obedt. Hum. Servt. De Peyster [Signed] F. HALDIMAND [B 97-1, r 107] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM [Translation] QUEBEC 7h May 1779 SIR Before your letter of the 26th ultimo I obtained information that the express which went down to Niagara had met you on the 23d & days journey from Oswegatchie & three days after I received a letter



Page 403


9

GEN. HALDIMAND TO CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM. 403 from Ensign Davis dated the 26h which informed me that on the 25h a party of 30 Indians in the interest of the Rebels (who had been roving for some days about his post) had killed two men & made four prisoners & not making any mention in his letter that you had passed. his post, I was very uneasy on your account when I received your letter from Carlton Island & I hope that you will continue your route as successfully as you have begun & that you will soon return after having obtained the object of your voyage. I will make use of the information you give me concerning the expedition & the safety.of the convoy which I have forced with all possible vigor; for this reason I have until I receive your news stopped all merchants canoes who are in the habit of trading with Niagara & the Detroit. As for those who trade to the North, I will be obliged in a short time to allow them to send provisions to the Engagee's who have passed the winter here, without which they would perhaps starved. I will be obliged also to let those for Michillimakinak go up by the Grand River but I hope I receive your news or that of Major De Peyster by that time. Although I have nothing to add to the Instructions which I have.given you & as I do not know where you will get that letter I think it my duty to let you know that Capt Foy being dead I have great pleasure in naming you Barrack Master General which position Sir I am persuaded that you will fill with the same carefulness & zeal which you have always shown for the King's service. You may be assured that I will always be charmed to contribute to your welfare; I will let you know in the public orders when I will be able to send "le mercure " which I send to Halifax to carry my dispatches to Lord George and a Chevallier Clinton, but as it is much glisse (?) slipping away & abuse in all Departments & above all in that which you will direct. To day I send you the regulations which was made on this account by General Gage so that you can take it for a model & govern yourself accordingly in the information you get at each post & in reforming the abuses. It is necessary that the troops be supplied as well as place & circumstances will permit but it is not necessary to suffer any abuse in that way that can be avoided & the expenses must be diminished as much as possible, this will be a sure means of Justifying the choice I have made in putting you at the head of the Department. I have named Capt. Madougall of the Emigrants (with his company) to command at Carleton Island & Capt Aubrey with all which are there of the 47th to go to Niagara another com~pany of Emigrants



Page 404


404

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

will relieve the Detachment of the 31st which is at Oswegatchie where I sent Capt Fraser with the Indians and some French officers of that Department there to protect that communication. After the arrival of Capt Aubrey at Niagara Colonel Bolton can without risk send 150 men to Detroit. I doubt if the Virginians would dare to attack Niagara as long as the Five Nations are in our interest. It would be very difficult for them to maintain their communication between Fort. Erie & Niagara while they made the siege. It is not then by way of Oswego that they could undertake it & endeavour to get power there, but it appears to me that it would be easier for them undertake the Detroit where I hear that the inhabitants are not too well disposed. I count much on the influence you have among them to let them know their best interests, they are blind enough not to see that if the Virginians had the upper hand they would be more than their slaves & they would seize all their trade. Capt. Schank who carrys this letter has orders to receive all the advice you can give him he will take all that is necessary to put your marine on a good footing & his zeal & activity assure me that he will reassure them if they (the Rebels) give us time. I intend to establish our ship yard at Carlton Island & there to make our general store. I also ask you very particularly to inspect all the Island & to consider the provisions from all points. I will neglect nothing to make it secure against all accidents. Endorsed to Capt Brehm of the 7th May, 79 by Capt Schanks [B 99, p 42] CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA 8th May 1779 SIR If therefore Capt. Larnoulds Post was to fall it would not be intirely lost, the Western Indians at least not be regained this summer into bur interest again, and not without a great expense and by farr exceeding any hitherto made, if not double or triple; as the fall of that Post would carry allong with it the loss of the vessels, stores, Troops, and merchandise impossible to bring down, if an enemy knows how to take the advantage, they have at said place, to prevent a retreat; besides the expenses attending the Transport of Troops, to erect Fort & Barracks, Store houses &c.



Page 405


CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM TO GEN. HALDIMAND. 405 The Indians in their, support, not only expect provisions for themselves and familys, ammunition & cloathing (not being able to hunt or plant when at war, and leaving their Familys exposed to an Enemy, who in their absence may destroy them) but also some white people to join them, in what they call a war amongst ourselves; Capt. Larnould was in consequence under the necessity to send out of his small number of one hundred, and thirty odd men, one officer, and about 12 men to Sandusky, in order to get those Indians to join others from Detroit, and cooperate against the Rebells, at that quarter Tuscarowas, and Capt. Bolton out of his four hundred and forty (occupying four posts, getting in firewood and carrying on the indispensable works of repairing his Fort) is always besides the Rangers, obliged to send some white people as soldiers with them. Capt. Bolton having send 50 Rangers, in the hundred men for sucours, to Capt Lernould, has reduced his number, so as the sucours of whites, with the Indians, obliges him to take soldiers to supply numbers. Your Excellency I hope will clearly see, why Co' Bolton, and all Posts among the Indians, are obliged to demand sucours as the Indian connection, obliges them to take the offensive as well as the defensive part, at the same time and.to satisfy the Indians, that Government will support them, according promising also to send for the sucours to Capt. Lernould if required by him and to continue the absolute necessary repairs at the Fort. After considering the situation of Major de paister I apprehend he runs more risk from Chicagu by the Illinois River, then Capt" Larnould, as your Excellency will have and yet see, what precautions and means Col. Bolton has taken and is still constant sending partys towards Tuscarowas, and Fort Pitt to harass and disturb their proceedings but Clark having reduced Vincennes as early as February may have time to attack de paister by the above mentioned River, if the least preparation has been ordered by him at his leaving the Illinois. I intend to leave this either by the first vessel for Detroit or els if calms are seemingly expected, in a Boat, I only apprehend a long passage, having been meself three times in boats that way, the least and quickest passage took me 16 days and the longest 30, odd and I find



Page 406


406

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

no person hier to have ever done in boats sooner except coming down by the prevailing westerly winds, it has been done in seven days. I have the honor to be with great Respect & Esteem Sir Your Excellency's most obliged and most obedt humble Servant D. BREHM. To His Excellency General Haldimand [B 99, p 46J ISAAC WALKER TO THOMAS BENTLEY. LONDON May 8th 1779. Dr SIR, I am sorry you have been so long confined in Canada I now enclose you Bradley's letter, by which I hope you will soon get your liberty As soon as you do write me that I may divide the money. I was in hopes before this to have had some considerable remittances from the. Missicipy but have not had a single line. I differ from Bradley in one thing that is about drawing up a memorial to the Board of Trade it will take up time without answering any end. Your best way will be to go about your own business and take care what you say or do for there will be an eye kept upon you. When you get to the Notches (Natchez) I sh'd be glad you wo'd give me an acc't in what condition Bradley's estate is in, and what you think it will fetch. I wish you your health and am Sr Yrs. most Respectfully ISAAC WALKER Endorsed: Mr. Thomas Bentley. [B 185-1, p 40] *



Page 407


ORDNANCE AND STORES FOR NIAGARA AND DETROIT.

407

OR1DNANCE AND STORES FOR NIAGARA AND DETROIT. SOREL llh May 1779. Proportion of Ordnance and Ordnance Stores delivered to Captain John Schank of the Navy being for Service at the Posts of Niagara & Detroit.



Distribution Niagara Detroit

Tc Bras Ordnance 3 Pr. Grasshoppers.....---. --..----- (Mortars 4 2-5 Inch-.... ---------- -.-.----- Carriages- ---- Grasshoppers Wth Tincks & Elevating Screw... Sleds with Beds & Coins.......................... Field Tampeons wlt collars 3 pr---..----------- Muzzle Caps for Mortars 4 2-5 In................ Aprons of Lead for Guns & Mortars-.............. Traversing Handspikes 3 Pr Grassh........... Ladles with Staves 3 Pr-.................--- Wad hooks with staves & Rand. Leads 3 Prs... Spunges with Staves Rand Lead & 3 Prs.... bags. 4 2-5 Inch Dray Ropes with pins 3 prs grass....-...------ Poles for carrying Guns & Mortars--............. Leather shoulder slings for do. prs............. 0 Ropes with Loops &'Pins for carrying guns under hand......--...................... SRope Slings spliced for carrying do. wtb Poles Son shoulderse.......-..................... -- " Shoulder Pads for do.................----...--... SLeather straps with buckles for the side Arms... SPack Saddles with breeching Girths &-.... o Sursingles for carrying ----------------- P Quantities of Tann'd Leather with Hooks & Ropes--.................................- - Ammunition Boxes a pair fitted to each saddle.. Leather muzzles wth Hemp leaders for the horses Hemp Halters.............----,....---.. Horse Whips....-..........----...-- ---- Linstocks without corks.... ------............. Powder Horns with wires --............----------- Claw Hammers..............- --...

)tal 4 2 4 4 4 2 6 4 4 4 8 4 4

2 In box No. 7, 1 In boxes No 5 & 6 2 2 r 2 1 3 S 2 2 2 a i2 2 In a bundle 4 r 2

8 4

8

8 8 8 4 4

00 0 o S

4 4 4 4 2 2 4 8 4 4 4 3 2 3

2 2 2 1 3 2 2 2 4 2 2 4 2 4 4 4 2 2 4 8 4 4 4 3 2 a

8 16 8 8 8 6 4 6





Page 408


408 -

HALDIMAND PAPERS. Proportion of Ordnance anid Ordnance Stores-Continued..



Distribution Niagara Detroit

Total Punches for vents------------------------------ 6 Steel S~pikes for nailing guns -------------------- 6 Leather Buokets ------------------------------- 4 Budge Barrels Copper Hoop'd------------------- 2 Slow Match- lbs --------------------------------- 56 Spunge Tacks--------------------------------- 1000 Sheep Skins------------------------------------ 12 Tann'd Hides---------------------------------- 4 Painted Clothse-------------------------------- 8 Tarred Marline Skeins-------------------------- 2 Hambro Lines lbs ----------------------------- 4 Pack Thread lbs ------------------------------- 1 F Tin ------------------------------------------- 2 Lanthorns----- Dark ------------------------------------------ 2 LCandles lbs ------------------------------------ 6 F'Pick Axes wth helves -------------------- 4 Felling do--------------4 Intrenching ] Spades.-------------------------------------- 4 Tools- 1 Iron Shovels--------------------------------- 4 I (Htchts------------------8 Hand L Bills--------------------------------- 8 ComMd Powder wth four copper hoops on each barrel ---------------------------------- 4

0.0V

2 1 28 500 6 2 4 11 2 1 2 2 2 4 4

a 3 2 1 28 500 6 2 4 1 2 3 2 2 2 2 4 4

Meald Powder lbs---------- -------

2

Round ( (s IShot fixd to wooden bottoms & flannel____--600 Case ( Cartridge filled wth Powder ------------------ 200 Empty flannel 3 Prs Grasshopper -------------------------- 100 -Cartridges--. 142-5 Inch----------------------------------- 400 Empty Shells 4 2-~5 ic---------400 Fixt Fuzes 42-5, nch------------------------- 440 Mallets & Setters 4 2-5 Inch -t------------------ 4.4 Scrapers for Shells 4 2-5 Inch------------------- 4ý (6 Pr Lt. 600) Tin Tubes fix'd 3 do 600 -,-----------------------1200

2 1 300 100 50 200 in 10 200 220 z.2 2

2 In a box 16 of 18 lb.&Iofl12 1 30 100. ~ 50 S 200 boxes 200 220 2.2 2 600

001

600





Page 409


ORDNANCE AND STORES FOR NIAGARA AND DETROIT. 409 Proportion of Ordnance and Ordnance Stores-Continued. Distribution Niagara Detroit Total Tin Tube boxes 6 Pr. Lt.--..------------.----.-------.................--...------- 2 1 1 with straps--...( 3do....----.-------------.-----.. ------- -------4 2 2 Cartouches of Leather. ------.------.....-----------... 4 2 2 Tennent Saws---- -----------.. --.. -------------. 2 1 1 Files for do---------------. ----------------- 4 ( 2 2 Rasps % Round --------. -.......---....----------------...... 2 1 1 Portfires doze.--...--------.--------.-----..------ 10 5 5 Portfire Sticks---------------. -----..--------- 6 3 3 Slbs.----.----. ------------...... ---------------- 12 6 6 Kitt -.--{ Brushes.-----------...------------------------ 2 1 1 Barress pieces. --------------.. ----------------2 1 1 Flaxlbs..------------.. ---------------------- 4 2 2 -s Twinelbs-------------------------------- 4 -1 2 2 0| Quick Match Ibs cottrs-. --- ---- 6 Z- 3 3 Copper-Baiting Boxes.-------------- 2 0 1 1 Funnels for filling shells-....-.....-.--..... ---- 2 1 1 Powder 3S0 oz.---------------------------..... 2 1 1 Tin--------.- Measures 2 oz.....--...--------......--------..--------2 1 1 Sloz-...--..----------.-------------- 2 1 1 oz..........-- - --2 1 1 Kz ------------------------------ 211 Brown Paper Quires.------------.------------- 2 1 1 Laboratory Knives...............---- 2 1 Scissors pairs--------------------------------2. 1 1 Abstract of the Packages Niagara Detroit SPacksaddles &c 4 4 Rough Grasshopper Carriages &c 2 2 with Tongue Boxes I Mortars &c 1 1 & tongue.Quick Match &c 1 1 Joints 8 8 Flour [Leather Buckets 1 1 Casing the Barrels Powder only 2 2 Powder Bbls with 1 3 3 Captain Schank signed a copy of the above & had given him sign'd a copy for each placeF FORBES MACoBEAN ~ Lt. Col



Page 410


410

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Besides the within mentioned articles the following have been delivered to Capt. Schank for the use of the Upper Posts & Lakes. Brass Ordnance 4 Pr. Lt. 1. Shot fixd to wood bottoms & Flanl. Cartridge filled with powder Heavy Round 108 in 9 boxes of 12 ea. Pr 6 Light Case 112 in 8 boxes of 14 ea. 2 Endorsed Sorel llh May 1779.-Proportion of Ordnance & Stores delivered to Capt. John Schank of the Navy for Niagara & Detroit. [B 156, p 155] CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA SIR May 12th 1779. Cole' Bolton has ordered some spades shovels & Pickaxes to be got from this place, the former from Merchants, he having none in store which I intend to carry up to Detroit for the use of said place or Michilimakinac, for which last Post I apprehend the most by the way of the Illinois & Chikago Rivers over Lake Michigan. Colonel Bolton's Letter to Captain Larnould which he sent by Reinforcement and sailed from Fort Erie the 15h April last to Detroit makes him expect a vessel from thence every hour which caused him to advise me to stay for it as the speediest way of getting there. I have the honour to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem Sir Your Excellency's most obliged & most obedt Servant D. BREHM To His Excellency Genl. Haldimand Governor & Commander in Chief of the Province of Quebec. [B 99, p 62]



Page 411


LT. COL. THOMAS CARLETON TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

411

MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LIEUT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. Extract of a Letter from Major De Peyster dated at Michilimakinac 13th May 1779..In consequence of Mr. Hamilton's failure Mr. Langlade was obliged to relach6, when he had got so far on his way as Milwakie, the Indians being quite disheartened at the news, he is just arrived here, Gautier is at Lebay on his way here, he had raised two hundred and eighty Indians and got within two or three days march of the Caskias and heard that Mr. Hamilton was taken, on which he with difficulty got back. The Indians with him being quite disheartened and the greatest part of the Sackies & Reynards being what the french call bon Bostenys. The cunining of those Indians now appears to be such that they want to lay both sides under contributions, and I fancy it will appear that they have done so of our side plentifully when the Labay Accounts come in, nothing more can be expected from the Indians without a strong body of Troops to head them. The Chippawari arrived, and the Ottawas I expect soon, therefore am preparing my temper to receive those troublesome gentry, Indeed I have more of them here than comes to any one man's share, I do not beleave I can stand it much longer.. We are quite in the dark here of what is going on at Detroit, it certainly is threatened. Please to excuse the hurry of this scrawl as I am really near pulled to pieces by the Indians. I am &c. &c. [signed] A. S. DE PEYSTER. Lt. Col. Campbell Supt. [B 111, p 75] LT. COL. THOMAS CARLETON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. MONTREAL 13 May 1779. SIR I have directed Mr. St. George to furnish good men for. the canoes employed to carry Indian Presents to Michilimackinac & hope they will be ready to sett out in a very few days. I was informed at the Cedars that a store 40 feet long & 20 feet wide can be compleated in the Autumn with ease, if it is begun upon in the month of Jaly, boar:ds for the roof & Planks for the sides are bespoke at the Saw Mill, a few leagues up the River, and the Beams for the frame will be cut as soon as the waters have sufficiently fallen to allow the men to work in the Swamps.



Page 412


412 -

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Mr. Bouchette with a part of the seamen & Stores left La Chine on Tuesday last, & Captain Shank with the remaining seamen goes off to morrow morning. Capt" Mac Dougal's company is gone & Captain Robinson goes this day. We have likewise sent off eighty Batteaux loaded with Provisions & the Transport arranged in such a manner as to go on regularly and expeditiously. I therefore propose in consequence of your Excellency's permission to set out for Quebec about the beginning of the next week if nothing should start up here in the mean time to make my presence necessary I have the honor to be with great respect Your Excellency's most obedient most His Excelly Humble Servant General Haldimand THOMAS CARLETON [B 188, p 55] GENL. MONFORTON TO *CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT. [Translation.] SIR The Virginian came this morning & I heard from him that the Hurons at la grosse Roche had received a letter written by a man called Morgan on behalf of the Loups who invited the Hurons to go with them to make peace with the Americans, that Montrose would go to Sandusky but that the Hurons had not sent the belts which he had already sent me, that he had sent an answer to the first letter & that in a short time the chiefs proposed to set out themselves to conclude the peace. I asked him what had become of the Ottawa chief who had pitched his camp on the eve of the Huron's departure, he answered that he had remained some days at la grosse Roche feasting and dancing & leaving there he had taken the South Road (cote du sud) I have the honor to be with respect your very humble & obedient servant [signed] GENL. MONFORTON Detroit the 14h May 1779 to Mr. Belanger Lernoult commandant of Detroit Endorsed: Copy of a letter from M. Monforton to Capt. Lernoult Detroit 14th May 1779 Rec d 9h June-enclosed in Col. Bolton's Letter 31st May [B 100, p 154]



Page 413


CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

413

LIEUT. HENRY BIRD TO LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON. UPPER SANDUSKY Friday DR SIR. Malgre the fair promises made by the Chiefs, not a man will turn out to war except a little band of Senecas called Mingalis, consisting of twenty or thirty, led absolutely by Girty, Orontoni and his Brother are either Rascals or Cowards they tell me their heads are down. You may depend upon it, Sir, Dugantait has made Peace on a Belt with the Rebels, the Scalps he had were given to him-He is gone to Detroit to pursuade all he can to follow his example, be sure Sir, what I say is true. Montour is improperly out of the way. The Half King & his People who sit still positively by his orders, are absolutely undeserving your attention-Our Enemies will meet with little or no opposition in their progress to Detroit. The Fort full of Delawares, the Rebels offered 800 Dollars for Girty's Scalp-five Delawares thinking he marched with me way laid us on the road Girty was a day forward, they did not attack us, this information we got by credible informers, Girty and his Senecas gone in quest. Girty, I assure you Sir, is one of the most useful disinterested friends in his Departm" Government has. Permit me Sir, to beg you will give credit to this Information I now send you, I cannot be certain if the Fort is reinforced, but there has certainly been a large body in it, & a body returned I shall go to war with the first little party that goes, & then return, if I live, to Detroit, nothing can be done with these wretches who already talk of moving off their ground. I am &c [signed] HENRY BIRD [B 100, p 158] CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA SIR, May 15th 1779 I had the honor of receiving your Excellency's Letter of the 19th April the 14th Inst. by Capt. Butler, at the same time arrived Mr. Joseph Brant and the Canadian Indians. I hope long before this, Your Excellency will receive Colonel Bolton's Letters which will show that all that could be done for the protection of the Upper Posts 'has been done by him, as well in sending as much reinforcement as the vessels sent down could contain, as well as



Page 414


414

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

harassing those Enemys which are moving towards Detroit by constant Scouts, also their successes. By the return enclosed in my letter of the 8th Inst Your Excellency will see that there is now already as much merchandise at the Post and Erie as will employ the vessels all the summer, provided they are not employed in the Defence of Detroit. By that of the 26th April it will appear why I did not order any reinforcement from Carleton Island, besides not being demanded by Col' Bolton from Capt Aubray; and if Col' Bolton had had more men he could not have sent them for want of vessels from Detroit. The Detachment of the 47th under Captain Aubray, are not yet arrived, Col' Bolton intends to send them to incamp at Fort Erie, where they are to work till such time as the vessels arrive to carry them to Detroit. I'll go with them to lay out the work for to cover the Fort against small cannon & surprises and from thence intend to proceed in a Boat for Detroit on the supposition that an accident has happened to the vessel sent by Capt Larnould. I do it for the best and hope it will turn out so; as the expected arrival from thence is to long coming. I kno the Inhabitants of Detroit to well to expect any good out of them; but by Cap" Lernoults advice to get some service out of them; the reinforcement may alter their way of acting and thinking. Captn Butler has promised to go out with a strong party towards Tuscawraws by Col. Bolton's desire. If the Scouts from Sandusky have had the same success, as those from hier Detroit doubtless is out of all danger. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect His Excellency & Esteem General Haldimand Sir Commander in Chief Your Excellencys in the Province of most obliged &. Quebec. most obt Servant [B 99, p 67J D. BREHM.



Page 415


LT. COL. BOLTON TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

415

LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. SNIAGARA May 20h 1779. SIR I have at last received an Express from Detroit by the Felicity with several letters & other Papers which I forward by Captain Matthews who is well acquainted with all our Transactions here, has a thorough knowledge of these Posts, and is very capable of furnishing your Excellency with many particulars necessary for your information. *Capt. Parke in a letter dated May llh acquaints me that Capt Lernoult is ill with the gout which renders him incapable of writing, that he wishes he could represent the state of affairs at Detroit in a more favourable light but that Moniferton's letter would show me how far the Hurons are to be relied on & that he had reason to think those at Sandusky (altho' not inclined to make up matters yet) showed a great inclination to take an active part untill they see a stronger Reinforcement arrived at Detroit. The Ottawa & some of the other Nations in Council have declared their attachment but say they have led the way hitherto but were determined for the future not to be the first, in short Capt Lernoult has very little hopes of any assistance from either the Canadians or Indians. the latter are particularly industrious in debauching the minds of the former, and have succeeded too well, owing in a great measure to the want of proper people to manage them, who were all taken away with Gov' Hamilton those who were left at Detroit want either the Talents or Inclination for the service & consequently not to be relied on, he also informs me the new Fort is in great forwardness, the Parapet finished, the Platforms laid, the magazine almost fit to receive ammunition, and the gate ready to be put up in a short time they will be ready to receive the Rebels with a good countenance. The Detachment had a long & very disagreeable passage, they left Fort Erie the 14h of April and did not arrive at Detroit until the 7h of May, the Angelica run on shore on Long Point, and was with difficulty got off, the arrival of the Detachment changed the face of affairs our Friends were all elated, and others as much depressed, but the latter by far the most numerous. Major De Peyster in a letter dated the 2nd of May informs me that some squaws went a short time ago to see their relations about forty miles from this, they returned with the news that the Virginians are building Boats at or near Milwaukee and have sent Belts which were accepted of by the Ottawas & Chippewas requesting of them to remain at the Grand River till the Virginians had taken his Fort, and put it



Page 416


416

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

into the hands of their old Friends the French, a man who arrived yesterday from the same place says that this news came from the Grand River to the Chief Goree, who wintered at the Traverse, Goree did not believe it & sent to the Grand River to get further Information, that the Enemy were said to be at the Chicagou and not at Milwaukee, a disaffected Chief of Milwaukee (named Sagenake) was to laid the first Division, the Major had dispatched People to reconnoitre and get every possible information, he says if they should only come that way, and the Indians keep firm, they may chance to regret their voyage but should Detroit fall the friendship of the Indians will fall with it he expects that I will send him orders to take the command at Detroit, as that is now a Post of consequence & his right to command the Provisions he received turned out extremely bad, upwards of six Barrels of Pork & a proportion of other species were condemned & appeared to him to have been condemned before it arrived at his post. The Detachment of the 47h Regt. arrived the 17th Inst under the command of Captain Aubrey but as Detroit is in so precarious a situation, I have ordered him to Fort Erie to embark with his men as soon as the Angelica arrives, at this time I think it is absolutely necessary to lay before your Excellency a state of the Garrison, in hopes a reinforcement may soon be sent to enable me to carry on the works & to give our Indian Allies some assistance, as part of Major Butler's Rangers are now with Captain Lernoult, besides it is not the easy matter to discover which way the Enemy may advance-between two and three Indians have been constantly employed about Fort Pitt, and have defeated several parties of the Rebels. Lt. Dockslider of the Indian Department with 108 Warriors fell in with a strong Body of the Enemy lately, killed 21 and took 9 Prisoners, with the loss only of 1 Indian killed and three wounded, the Lieut. has also received three wounds, but am in hopes be will recover-small parties (I am informed) will never answer between Fort Pitt & Tuscarawas. Captain Brehm is now at Fort Erie & intends (I believe) going in a Batteau to Detroit, as it will take up some days to get the Baggage &c of the Detachment on board. Lieut Glenie of the Royal Artillery & Lieut Banbury of the 47h Regt. are both in arrest by Capt. Aubrey's order, on consulting with Capt. Brehm, we have agree'd it would be best to send them both down to Canada. I have ordered Lieut Collison to send 150 rounds of fixed case shot & 200 rounds of fixed round shot to Detroit, as part of the ammunition was thrown overboard when the Angelica went ashore at long point. I therefore request you'll order up to this Post 300



Page 417


DAN. MURRAY TO THOMAS BENTLEY.

417

rounds of fixed case shot for six Pounders, inclosed you have a letter from Major Butler & a note from Genl. Clinton. I am with great respect Sir Your Excellency's most obedient most obliged Humble Servant MASON BOLTON P. S. I have only the sick men of the 47h Regt in this Garrison & the Surgeon informs me many of them must be sent to Montreal. His Excellency General Haldimand [B 100, p 143] DAN. MURRAY TO THOMAS BENTLEY. DEAR SIR Yours I received this day from Mr. Bently. I am in no way deceived in my opinion of McCarty's integrity. You were hardly past the Barrier (after my return from the fort from dinner) when my good friend Kennedy accompanied by Dronart came with a message from Viviat desiring I should come & assist him and other arbitrators assembled without my knowledge or approbation to settle the books which I* refused as he had hitherto acted without consulting me. On the morrow.1I received a paper by our famous notary which I refused & threw after him, on his being gone I perused it and found it was a demand of some books I have in my possession without which the Arbitrators could do nothing tho they were two days (almost) closely employ'd, so was forced to adjourn it till my brother's arrival next day Viviat protested against my proceedings, but our noty. from his recept the day before was afraid to bring me the copy of the protest but sent it by a child seal'd like a letter. I have heard nothing since nor have I spoke with our commandr since the day of your departure. This'day Charleville's Batteau arrived but Louis is dead at Orleans, as to news I hear of none yet nor have I as yet got any letters. They have brot very little merchd0 being obliged to ballast the Batteau with bags filled with earth. Your mullatress is come up her passage ~30 being paid by your cousin Topham. There is two packets from London enclosed in a few lines from Miller wherein he says that he wrote to Morgan and Mather an acct. of the articles you 53



Page 418


418

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

want & and that he would have sent your negro this time but that the batteaux were all full but that he will send him by Winston, which is the chief part of his letter he does not so much as acknowledge the receipt of the Peltry you sent him. Pray God that Winston has not plaid the Rogue. As to your being complained of already to Gov' Carleton you need not dread that for since your departure Rocheblave drew out a complaint against you and wanted all the principal Inhabitants to sign it which they all absolutely refused particularly the Chavaleville's, Bienvenue, Lafont, Plassy, Janist etc no doubt but your friends Viviat Cerres La Chance might have done it but they are too few to countenance it when so many refused to do it, so that I fancy it will not be sent, however upon a change of government I wont fail to expose his villainous intentions. As to the hunters you write of there is three of them one of them has been before, his name Benj. Lynn, but they bring no news that I can hear of worth reporting, if the batteau brings any news worth your hearing I shall write you again if I have an opportunity, and as to my assist0 in my abs" as I have not one drop of Irish blood in my veins, a promise with me is sacred. Mrs. Bentley is well and desires her love and duty to you and prays earnestly for your speedy and safe return in which prayer sincerely joins your assured friend and hble Servant DAN. MURRAY KASKASKIAS 25th May 1779. N. B. I forgot to inform you that there is a great mortality at Orleans by the small-pox Don Piemasse only, lost 3 children & 15 Slaves. Endorsed: To Mr. Thomas Bentley on his journey to Canada. Recommended to the care of Mr. Isaac Levy at Caho. [B 185-1, p 7] OEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON. QUEBEC 26th May 1779. SIR I am honored with your Excellency's Intelligence of the 24th Feby and 15th March, the Bearer of the last is an honest man, and was -employed in conveying Letters from me to Your Excellency-and tho' I have no doubt but you received by return of your former messenger every possible Intelligence respecting the then situation of affairs in the Upper Country, yet I enclose you copies of several Letters sent me from thence for your further Information.



Page 419


GEN. HALDIMAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON.

419

I paid great attention last Fall to the Transport of Provisions for the Upper Country, in hopes that it would have been in my power to have taken Post at Oswego early this Spring, but the unfortunate Expedition against Fort St. Vincennes undertaken by Gov. Hamilton without my orders, together with the very great number of Savages who have been fed during the winter, have left the Upper Posts quite bare & obliged me to begin the Transport very early this Spring, and which I am now forwarding with all possible dispatch, in order to enable me, provided I receive a proper Reinforcement, to establish a Post at Oswego during the Summer, this is a Project I am extremely anxious about, because I know it will be the most effectual means to secure the fidelity of the Indians in general, whom the Rebels are now very industrious to gain, as you will see by the enclosed Letter from the Marquis de la Fayette; this, with Count d'Estaing's Proclamation dated Boston the 28th October 1778, & other papers of a similar nature, are spread amongst them, and several even of the Chiefs are either become neuter or have discovered an Inclination to serve against us. My last advices from the Upper Posts are dated from Niagara the 8th May, and are from my aid-de-camp Captain Brehm, in whom I repose the greatest confidence, he informs me that Govr Hamilton has made such large Promises of supporting the Indians, that a great number of their families have deserted from their Habitations, and others have neglected the usual precautions of providing for their subsistence, so that they must starve unless we can supply them with near twice the quantity of Provisions we did last year, this Intelligence is the more distressing, as two large Victuallers missed their Passage last year, by which accident have very little English Flour, or salt Provisions in the Province & the Canadian Flour will not preserve during the distant Transport to those Posts, I am in daily hopes of seeing Provision Ships, for as the navigation upwards is so tedious, and its continuance so short, I foresee a thousand bad consequences which must follow, if they are delayed much longer, or if, when they.do arrive the supply is not very ample. I have received various Intelligence from Still Water and Albany, about the progress made by the Rebels in building Vessels and Bateaux, the former have long since been laid aside, but a considerable number of the latter are compleat, and they are employed in building more: if they have any serious Intentions of attacking the Province, I apprehend they will find our Fleet on Lake Champlain, as well as the advanced Posts near it, very superior to any force they can bring



Page 420


420

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

against them, but my apprehensions are, that they may penetrate in very small Bodies, into the Heart of the Country, where there is a very visible alteration among all ranks of men since the commencement of Hostilities with France, and I have every reason to believe, there are several sets of men who carry on a correspondence with the Rebels, thro' whom they have received copies of Admiral D'Estaing's declaration dated at Boston 28th Oct & a multiplicity of Papers of the same tendency, this defection appears the more dangerous as, in spite of all my endeavours I have not yet been able to discover any part of their correspondence, nor obtain such evidence against such Persons I suspect, as might enable me to punish with severity. In such a situation the Province can only be secure by having a number of Encampments so situated as to defend the easiest Passes into the Country, and prevent the possibility of our Enemies obtaining any regular supply of Provisions; and here I cannot forbear lamenting to your Excellency the insufficiency of the Troops now in the Province to execute such a system of defence and under such circumstances. The Regular British Troops who scarce exceed sixteen hundred (from Lake Ontario downward) fit for duty, I am obliged to divide and subdivide in my advanced Posts, so that, on the greatest emergency, I could not assemble more tfian one thousand effective men. The Emigrants are composed of men of all nations, and Sir John Johnson's Regiment tho' a useful corps with the ax0 are not altogether to be depended on with the Firelock. The German Troops who are the most numerous, are only the Refuse of those who accompanied Genl. Burgoyne except the Regiment of Anhalt Zerbst, and a part of the Hannan Chasseurs, and even these, as well as the others are both by nature and education totally unfit for an American war, besides from the nature of the country, they have been unavoidably dispersed in separate and distant Quarters, and have in some degree imbibed thePrinciples of the Inhabitants, which has of late been conspicuous, in repeated and considerable desertions, even from the most secure cantonnments in the Province. I have thus been explicit, that your Excellency might Judge of the immediate necessity there is of my receiving as soon as possible, some considerable Reinforcement, and from your Letters in August and September last, I am in hopes two thouisand men are already on their Passage for this place. It is my duty to request your Excellency's particular attention with respect to Provisions, and likewise to mention, that altho' I have some spare arms, I do not think the quantity sufficient for the exigencies that may arise in this extensive Province, however I forbear pressing your Excellency

Page 421


GEN.. HALDIMAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON.

421

for any supply of these articles, being totally ignorant of what may be sent from England this Spring, probably you may before you receive this, have Information thereof, and I am confident you may then act in every particular as may best promote the Public Service. A vessel which left Jamaica the 10th March, is the only arrival we have had this season, she brought us no particular Intelligence, nor have I any Idea what is coming from Europe-Should I be happy enough to receive any considerable Reinforcement, I shall attempt to form a Battalion or two of Canadian Militia, if I succeed & find myself well supported, I wish to attempt disarming the disaffected Parishes, had this been done in 1776, I apprehend it would have answered many excellent Purposes, the execution of such a scheme, was then easy, and without danger, but I consider it now as very difficult, and bonly to be done with great caution, and even then, not without some risk of hurting the King's Service. I have lately received the disagreeable Intelligence that a Scoute of Tuskaroras & Oneida Indians, about thirty in number, have appeared at Oswegatchie, have killed two soldiers of the garrison & taken four Prisoners; I fear I shall find it very difficult intirely to secure my Transport upon so long a line of communication. I hope Your Excellency has received my Letter of the 10, 20 & 23d November or its duplicate of the same date, tho' I am apprehensive that the latter was lost, as, by private Intelligence I have heard the vessel was taken, and Mr. Gordon, to whose care I trusted my dispatches, either died or was killed, and as our correspondence is so tedious and precarious, I have, to avoid delay, and give to the Minister as early Information as possible sent him a copy of this Letter, which I have enclosed to Governor Hughes to forward from Halifax. 'The Letter from G. *Carpenter of the 23d March, has been delivered and will be answered by the Bearer who is now here, whenever any thing occurs worth writing about. The advices I have received from the Mohawk River, from Albany, from the Kenebeck, differ in particulars, but they all agree that in each of these situations, Bateaux are building, and Troops assembling, and that a proportion of these Troops are French. I do not believe that their number are formidable, and what are reported to be French I take to be only Vagabonds they have picked up in America, or more probably the Continental Troops'in French Uniforms. However I may dispise such Troops, I shall always endeavour to guard against them as if they were the best in Europe, because they may probably have



Page 422


422

SHALDIMAND PAPERS.

a great effect, as the inhabitants persuade themselves a French Fleet will soon shew itself in this River. May 29th. I have purposely omitted mentioning Detroit and Michilimackinac in the former part of this Letter, in hopes to have received fresh advices from thence before I closed my dispatches, but I am sorry to add, none are arrived, my last Letters from Niagara are dated the 15th of May, those from Detroit 26th of March, at that time all was well at Niagara, and a Reinforcement of one hundred men with Provisions & Stores, had sailed for Detroit early in April: I hope Detroit is in no immediate danger, but I have my doubts about Michilimackinac, as I apprehend the Provisions and Presents taken at St. Vincennes and the Miamis will be of great service in the Execution of an Enterprise against that Post. However it is fortunate that the officer who commands there, Major De Peyster, is a good soldier & will certainly do all that can be done to defend His Post. I have the Honour to be with the greatest Regard Sir Your Excellency's most obedient and most Humble Servant [signed] FRED HALDIMAND. N. B. Since the Original of this Letter was wrote, more minute Returns have been received of the Expenditures of Provisions, by which it appears that by far the greatest number of Indian Families who receive Provisions are at Niagara. The whole of the Mohawk and Ochquaga Villages having been burnt and destroyed by the Rebels, in consequence of their early & steady attachment to government, their Families, together with some few of the Onondaga Nation were under the necessity of flying to Niagara for Refuge. Sir Henry Clinton. Endorsed: Letter from His Excellency General Haldimand to Sir Henry Clinton dated 26th May 1779. Sent by Mr. Foy to Halifax. [B 147, p 49J MOSES HENRY TO COL. JOHN GIBSON Extracts of a Letter from Moses Henry dated Post St. Vincent April 19h 1779 to Col. Gibson. I had the pleasure after being relieved to be sent on an expedition up the Wabash, to meet a certain number of Boats, with stores &



Page 423


CAPT. ALEXANDER M'KEE TO CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT.

423

merchandize which I took together with the chief Judge of Detroit who was sent with Governor Hamilton to Williamsburg the which I hop will be of infinite Benefit to your expedition against Detroit as all the Indians on the Wabash are our Friends. From &c MOSES HENRY. [B 181, p 170] CAPT. ALEXANDER M'KEE TO CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT. To Colo John Gibson The above was enclosed in the following Letter to Colonel Lernoult. SIR At the request of several Chiefs six nations & Shawanese I send you the enclosed string of Wampum, it was delivered here by the Otawas in the name of An'qu'shey'ray & it is to inform them that the Ottawas Chippawas and those of their confederacy had entered into a new league of friendship with their ancient Father the French and their Bretheren the Virginians therefore that they were determined to interfere no longer, in the quarrel between the white people, it was true they say some of their warriors had been foolish enough to take hold of the hatchet, handed about to the Indians at Detroit, but that their eyes were more opened, and from recovering their senses find they. have been deceived both by their fathers the English and' the six nations, who have acted with them in the same manner, by putting a hatchet into their hands which if they used any longer must be directed against their old Fathers the French, who they saw were coming Hand in hand with the Virginians. That they were now determined to set still and advised the Shawanese to be wise to do the same as their Bretheran. The Wabash Indians have all come into this resolution. This message has been very detrimental to His Majesty's Interest amongst the Indians and given great uneasiness to several chiefs particularly six nations, who say that both them and their fathers the English have been deceived by the Lake Indians, who never appeared to them hereby in the cause and are entirely governed by their old Fathers the French, as to themselves they say they must rely on the wisdom of their fathers at Detroit who well knew how to act should he find any of his children perfidious or neglecting to adhere to the general league entered into by all Indian Nations in behalf of their father the King of great Britain with defence of their country & should



Page 424


424

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

he find any of them deviating from this they flatter themselves he will immediately inform them of it. Notwithstanding the reports propogated to stop & intimidate the Indians a considerable body of them are preparing to make an incursion toward the rebel Post at Tuskarawas, the event of which. if successful will be very favourable to His Majesty's Interest in this country. A few days ago some letters were intercepted from the Rebels posted at St. Vincent containing nothing material but accts of the murder of some Delaware Indians at the Illinois with messagoes, endeavoring to reconcile them for their loss. One of those messengers informed a Shawanese Chief that he was present at a meeting held (after Governor Hamilton's captivity) between the Rebels, the Wabash Indians, some Ottawas and Chippawas and the Delawares of that neighborhood who addressed the several nations and told them they wished they would follow their example, and not meddle with the quarrel between the white people, which they could find to be their real Interest that their chiefs at Cushaking had not only observed, to do this but on the contrary endeavoured to convince them that peace was best, after this meeting the Delawares sent Belts and Messages to the Western Nations which has occasioned the Ottawas Message in the name of An'gus'hy'way these are the most material occurrences which have come to my knowledge at present. I am sir with great respect Shawanese Village Your most obedient Servant May 26h 1779 [signed] A. MoKEE [B 181, p 171] PETITION OF ALEXANDER ELLICE IN BEHALF OF DETROIT MERCHANTS. To His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Esq. Captain General and Governor in Chief in and over the Province of Quebec, and the Territories depending thereon in America-Vice Admiral of the same General and Commander in Chief of His Majesty's Forces in the said Province & Frontiers thereof &c. &c. &c. The Petition of Alexander Ellice on behalf of Merchants of Detroit sheweth, That Your Excellency was pleased to enter into a contract with John Stedman for carrying merchandize over the Portage of Niagara, and in consideration thereof Your Excellency was also pleased to take a Bond from the said John Stedman in favour of Your Petitioners,



Page 425


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

425

dated the 27th of July last, binding him to charge only four shillings & six pence New York Currency for transporting of each gross hundred weight, after such contract was notified at Niagara, which could only be done by order of your Excellency or the said John Stedman, therefore if omitted ought not (in your Petitioners humble opinion) operate to the disadvantage of the merchants. However it has by the said John Stedman's continuing to impose six shillings pr cwt. contrary to the spirit and intention of his bond, even during the months of September October & November, notwithstanding the notification could have been made in twenty days, which would have terminated that charge on the seventeenth day of August last. Your Petitioner therefore prays that your Excellency will be pleased to order payment to be received at the rate of four shillings & six pence pr cwt. for merchandize carried over since the said seventeeth of August last, and that your Excellency will direct the said John Stedman to furnish proper accounts expressing the mark & weight of each Package, or if the Packages are small & several weighed in the same scale, the marks of such their weight together, which however reasonable & necessary he has refused to do. ALEX ELLICE Quebec 26th May 1779 Endorsed: Mr. of Mr. Ellice rec 27th May 79 [B 217, p 80] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO GEN. FREDERICK' HALDIMAND. MICHILIMAOKINAC 29th May 1779. SIR I did myself the honour to write to your Excellency on the 27th of October acquainting you with the steps I had taken towards giving assistance to Lieut Govr Hamilton, having sent Messrs. Langlade, Gautier & Ains for that purpose. I am now sorry to inform you that Ains is returned with the following report vizt. That they were detained on their way by contrary winds, so that they did not reach the mouth of the Grand River till the thirteenth day of November-where Mr. Langlade landed agreeable to his instructions. That on their way to St. Joseph's they spoke with the Ottawa Chiefs, who declined the Expedition for want of previous notice, but declared themselves ready in the Spring. That detained by - a continuation of bad weather He, Ains & Gautier did not arrive at St. Joseph's untill the 2nd day of December, where they found Mr. 54



Page 426


426

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Louis Chevallier who had been twenty-two days from Mr. Hamilton's little army which had near passed the pais flat before he left it. That he, La Chevallier was informed there that Gebeau, the Priest, had been at the Post Vincent and at the Onia, with a party of Rebels & obliged 600 Inhabitants to swear allegiance to the Congress &c and that by the best accounts he could get, the Rebels at the Illinois did not exceed three hundred men, who were ill provided. The above news of Mr. Hamilton having got so far the start being told the Indians at the Grand River, where Mr. Langlade had raised about eighty. They declined to follow at so great a distance, on which Mr. Langlade sett out for his Post at Labay & Gautier, finding that Mr. Chevallier had already taken the few Pottawatamies which could be raised at that advanced season to Mr. Hamilton set out for his Post on the Mississippi, carrying with them Belts & Speeches to exhort the Indians to be ready in the Spring if called upon. Your Excellency's answer to my Letter of the 21st Sept. (thro' Lieut Colonel Bolton) is Just come to Hand. I have the Honour to be with Great Respect Your Excellency's most Humble & obedt Servant A. S. DEPEYSTEB P. S. I should be glad to know if your Excellency will be pleased to allow the officer any pay for his laying out, ajid directing the works at the Portage. [B 97-1, p 90] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO SIR JOHN JOHNSON. QUEBEC May 31st 1779. SIR I have received your letter of the 25th May and am obliged to you for the Intelligence and news papers enclosed, I should be extremely glad to employ the two Colonels you mention, in procuring Intelligence and if they proved faithful to reward them handsomely, at the same time the essential part of their present Intelligence has not much the appearance of truth, and we must be particularly cautious not to be the dupes of their cunning and duplicity-and whoever goes near them, should be very much on his guard what he says, otherwise by his means they will procure from him every intelligence concerning our situation, and in return only give us flattering Reports which are without foundation; As soon as I hear from General Clinton I shall be happy immedi

Page 427


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

427

ately to exchange Lieut Singleton but cannot do it until then, yesterday I received an express from Michilimakinac, dated 13th May, the Post was then all well, but the Rebels were trying every means by inventing Lies, making great Promises &c to debauch the Indian nation from their allegiance to the King, but I hope they are not likely to succeed in any dangerous degree. I approve of what you have done respecting Defau, but as he has been ill, I have wrote to prevent his coming to Quebec, and to desire he may be at St. Johns about the 4th or 6th June, and wait there for orQers from Brig. General Powell. I shall immediately appoint Mr. John Valentine in Publick Orders, to be Adjutant to the Royal Regiment of N. York, in consequence of your Recommendation. It is more than probable this will find you at Sorell, where I hope you are very active in forming Captain Lake's company composed of the best men the moment they are compleat I shall send them into Quarters about La Chine. I am &c. &c. [signed] FRED HALDIMAND. Sir John Johnson Endorsed: To 1779 Sir John Johnson at Sorell May 31st [B 159, p 14] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND MICHILIMACKINAC 1st June 1779. SIR, I have this day drawn upon Your Excellency for Four hundred & eighty seven Pounds, nineteen shillings New York Currency-Bill No 11-at Sixty Days sight favor of Julian Thurry being for goods purchased by him for the Indian Department at this Post as per annexed account. I have the Honour to be Sir To Your Excellency's His Excelly most hum' & obed' Servant The Commander in Chief A. S. DE PEYSTER [B 97-1, p 117]

~



Page 428


428

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON. LIEUT. COL. BOLTON QUEBEC SIR June 7h 1779. I have received your letter of the 20th of May with enclosures from Detroit and the disagreeable accounts transmitted to you by Capt. Lernoult of the wavering disposition of the Indians in his neighborhood. I trust that the appearance of Reinforcements in so quick a succession will have a good effect in Reclaiming them and serve to awe the disaffected Inhabitants into good behaviour. I am greatly concerned that Capt. Lernoult is left so destitute of assistance to conduct Indian affairs the more so as it is not in my power to furnish him with any but my reliance on him from the accounts I have had of his zeal and abilities makes me as easy for the safety of his Post as the situation of affairs there can admit of You may inform him that from the very favourable Reports made to me by Governor Hamilton of Monsr Montforton I am much disposed to serve him and shall be glad of an opportunity to do it, in the mean time I wish Capt. Lernoult to do all in his power to engage a continuance of his attachment and services. I cannot but approve of your having forwarded Capt. Aubrey's Detachment to Detroit and the sooner you send down those men belonging to it that you mention to be unfit for service, from a confirmed state of bad health the better, and here I must repeat to you my anxiety for having every useless mouth removed from Niagara for the reasons I have already mentioned to you, which is still as urgent as ever. All Prisoners & idle people from the Frontiers I hope you have already sent, if you can find amongst the distressed families three or four who are desirous to settle upon the opposite side of the river, who are good Husbandmen and who discover Inclinations for improvement of Land only exclusive of every other view or pursuit. I would have you establish them there, affording them whatever assistance you may think necessary, whether by a little provision or a few Labourers for which indulgence they are to understand that their Labour is to be calculated for, and to tend as much to the supplying of the garrison as to their private advantage. With regard to Major De Peyster, I have to observe to you that I cannot risk the consequences of removing from a Post of such importance at so critical a period an officer of his approved knowledge in the management of the Indians of that quarter, whose influence with them



Page 429


GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

429

is so great and whose government of them has been so urgently requested by themselves. I shall myself write to him upon this subject. I am &c Lieut Col Bolton [signed] FRED HALDIMAND commanding at Niagara [B 104, p 24] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. SQUEBEO 10th June 1779. SIR The demand for guns and Ordnance Stores for Detroit I have sent to Colo. McBean and shall order them up, in the mean time as Detroit at present seems' to require the first attention, I would have you forward to it immediately your 18 Pounder & Carriage with 187 Round Shot for it, and likewise the two brass 12 Pounders with ammunition for the same, and eight men from your Detachment of the Royal Artillery. I shall lose no time in replacing both the guns & the men at Niagara and shall besides give orders to have some heavy guns (if there are any fit for service) sent to you from Oswegatchie. For your further Information I enclose a copy of my order to Col~ McBean. I mean to put Mr. Antoine Surgeon at Detroit upon the Hospital Establishment and as soon as the Ships arrive from Europe I shall send there a mate with a proper assortment of medicine. In order to lessen in some measure the enormous expenditure of the Naval Dept, I have given orders to the Commissary General to issue Rum to the Seamen & artificers of that Department out of the King's Store, for which purpose I have sent up a Brigade of Bateaux loaded with that article in the care of Major Navin. As I wish Detroit and Michilimackinac to communicate with each other as -frequently as possible you will please to give orders that the



Page 430


430

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

small vessels which navigate Lake Erie may occasionally be used on that service the little demand for them this year on the Merchant Transport will render this more easy. Lieut Col. Bolton (No signature) [B 104, p 28] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO CAPT. JOHN SCHANK. QUEBEC June 10th 1779 SIR, I have received your Letters of the 1st and 3d June and am glad to hear the new regulations respecting the Ration were received so willingly. I have already spoke to Mr. Day who will immediately send orders to Mr. Maclean, and all the commissary's to supply your Department, with a proportion of whatever Rum they have in store,-the difficulties I find forwarding Provisions and Rum encrease daily, and you must exert all your endeavours, to introduce new modes of lessening the Expenditures of these Articles, for example, I imagine, that in very fine weather, and when the work is not very pressing, that the Seamen might only receive half the allowance of Rum, and be paid in cash for the other half, at eight Shillings Halifax per gallon, and whenever they catch fish in sufficient quantities to enable them to live upon a less Ration, it should be left in store, and the men receive ready money for its value. The Row Galley must not be solely appropriated for a guard vessel, but must be employed constantly to go with Dispatches, and no doubt could transport some Provisions when the service required-if in her present state she is not equal to these services you must make such alterations, as are necessary, and one or two large Batteaux must be fitted up for the accommodation of the guard. I must also forewarn you in the strongest terms, that His Majesty's Service at present, will not allow us, to undertake substantial and durable works, and having sent you considerable supplies of Artificers, Tools and Stores, I do expect that you will push on and complete such craft, as will best serve for the immediate Defence and Transport on the Lakes without paying the least attention to unnecessary conveniences, or delaying your progress, from* the Idea of making your Vessels more durable. About the time you receive this, you will no doubt have made every necessary regulation at Carleton Island, and will proceed to Niagara and Detroit, where you will study to perform such services as will be of immediate use, and particularly fit up and arm a small vessel for Major De Peyster, which must be entirely under his orders. You will



Page 431


/

GEN. HALDIMAND TO CAPT. JOHN SCHANK. 431 see this vessel well manned, with seamen, that can be depended upon, and if necessary Capt Lernoult can probably supply 6 or 8 soldiers, to go in Her. Major, De Peyster, has fixed upon the vessel which he wishes to have and, which I have no doubt you will find proper for this season. I have received a Draught from Capt. Grant, for seven thousand and odd pounds York Currency, on account of the Naval Department under him, but have refused Payment until you have minutely examined the different articles, and have certified to me, that they are conformable to the regulations made for the use of the Naval Department on the several Lakes-Captn. Grant will furnish you with a copy of his account.. I am &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND. P. S. I have received an application from Lieut. Chiquet petitioning to have his son paid as usual on board the seneca, I will not answer Lieut Chiquets Letter, but if he is a deserving officer, I do not wish to deprive him of any Indulgence, tho' I am determined to have nothing done, contrary to the new regulations we have established, therefore you will report to me, upon Lt. Chiquet's situation and your opinion of the advantage he loses, and which way it could be made good to him with the greatest propriety. Capt. Schank Endorsed: To 79 Captain Schank at Carleton Island June 10th. [B 143, p 63] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO CAPT. JOHN SCHANK. QUEBEC June 11th 1779. SIR In a letter I have Just wrote to jou, I have desired that you will examine into the several articles, of a Naval account, sent here by Capt Grant, but upon considering this business the Vouchers appear to me, so irregular, that I am induced to write you, again upon the subject, and to order, that you make the minutest inquiry, respecting tbk several articles, which are inserted, or meant to be inserted in the &c. &c. &c., which are at the close of many of the most expensive articles. Should you find any neglect in the Store Keeper at Detroit, or the least proof, that he has allowed any of the King's Stores to be issued,



Page 432


432

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

except for the King's service, or any Stores charged in the accounts without having received them into his charge, you are immediately to dismiss him from his employ and endeavour with the assistance of Lieut Col. Bolton, or Captain Lernoult, to appoint some Person, or Serjeant, either from the artillery, or the Line who shall be more deserving of the trust reposed in him. Agreeable to my former orders you will consult with Captain Brehm about any difficulties you may meet in settling this Business. Lieut Duvernet going from Canada with some artillery will probably require some assistance from your Department in the transport of guns from Oswegatchie, which must always be given him, without the least delay.. I am &c. [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Endorsed. To 79 Captain Schank at Carleton Island June 11th [B 143, p 66] MEMORANDUM BY COL. MACBEAN FOR GEN. HALDIMAND. Memorandum for His Excellency the Commander in Chief. The Iron 18 P now at Niagara to be sent immediately to Detroit with 187 Round Shot of the same nature it will be replaced as soon as possible by one of the best of those at Oswegatchie. The two Brass 12 pr at Niagara are to be also sent to Detroit they are to be replaced from the Camp at Sorell. All the serviceable Iron guns, that is all those that search well altho wanting a Trunion are to be removed from Oswegatchie & Fort Wm Augustus to Carleton Island Whatever ammunition Stores &c may be wanted at Detroit; to be supply'd from Niagara which shall be replaced as soon as possible from Sorell. Major Nairne to have His E. the comrn in Chief's orders to order a proper escorte to attend the 80 Barrels of Powder & 4 guns now going from Sorell to Carlton Island. June llh 1779. F. MACBEAN Endorsed Memorandum by Lt. Col. Macbean for His Excy. General Haldimand concerng Distribution of guns for the Upper Post. [B 156, p 159] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM. [Translation] QUEBEC the 13th June 1779 SIR Uncertain if this letter will find you at Detroit or Niagara I have written to you to acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the 8h 12h

0



Page 433


GEN. HALDIMAND TO CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM.

433

& 28h May last which were brought by Capt. Mathews who arrived here the 9h Instant I hope that you have received my letter of the 7h May. By which you have seen that everything possible has been done here to furnish the posts & all that was necessary for their defence; I deprived myself of the provisions which I needed for this part of Canada that no time might be lost in sending to your parts. There is no vessel arrived from Europe but I hear from Major Holland who came from Halifax by land that the nation has resolved push the war vith vigor I send the newspapers which he brought me to Colonel Bolton who will pass them on to Capt. Lernoult & Major Depeyster. My greatest fear is the want of provisions I neglect no means of saving or procuring them; gather all the Indian corn & other subsistence possible to content the Indians. I send Major Neson to Carleton Island with 50 tronee (troncs) to help the work. He has under his convoy the artillery which Colonel Bolton demanded with the powder & a quantity of rum & I have given orders to Colonel Bolton to send the Artillery immediately to Detroit which will perhaps be necessary. By that he can replace there what I sent to Montreal. As I have explained to you my intentions with N regard to everything that concerns the good of the King's service & as it appears that the inhabitants of Detroit are not the best disposed I send an order to Capt. Lernoult to arrest (if he Judges right) the principal among them as hostages & send them to Niagara to assure the fidelity of the rest this will require that discretion of which Capt. Lernoult is very capable. I hope you have not forgotten what I told you about Commodore Grant. The thing will perhaps be very serious. He has drawn on me for X~700 New York currency for the expenses of the marine entirely against the reg lations which I have made on this head this is why I have refused the payment of his bill & I have given orders to Capt. Schanks to,examine his account with care & all the vouchers & send me a report. I ask you to help him in executing this commission & if Mr. Grant cannot arrange the accounts according to the prescribed regulations you will order him, on my behalf, to come here immediately with all his papers, that they may be examined. The enormous expenses of the department oblige me to establish the order there, my reputation depends on the conduct of an officer, & in this case I hope that you will allow nothing that can endanger it. I am so overwhelmed with work that I am obliged to ask that you will not delay in your Journey when the good of the service requires it. I wait your return to be able to finally take all precautions possi55



Page 434


434

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

ble for the security of the posts. I am surprised that Colonel Bolton knowing (as I had written to him) my trouble about provisions has not sent to Canada all useless people, prisoners, Loyalists, women, children invalids &c &c. The consumption which they occasion prevent my sending the troops &c which might occasion the loss of our posts. Endorsed: To Capt Brehm [B 99, p 82] CAPT. JOHN SCHANK TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. CARLETON ISLAND SIR 13h June 1779. I beg leave to acquaint Your Excellency that the Naval Stores is not yet arrived as also the ammunition & other necessaries belonging to the Howitzers and Grasshoppers for which reason I have not sent them to Niagara or Detroit wishing to carry everything belonging to them on with themselves of the three Gun Boats which I Brought as far as Montreal I every day see more and more that such Boats is wanted, as the reports from Carleton Island respecting Ship Timber being cut was more than double what has really been cut and a great part of what is here come from Niagara putting the whole together is not near enough to build the new ship there, being situated and having got the better of the Transport on this Lake I would build some few Gun Boats here & finish the vessel by the Fall of the Year, at the same time I wish for the three Gun Batteaux now at Lachine, Capt. McDougal writes your Excellency of the Enemy's Scouts and of the last Prisoners taken, notwithstanding the Row-galley and row Gunboats was out the whole night and in the day time they went off the Island in the presence of an armed Battea.u coming irom Cataraqui, I beg leave to assure your Excellency that without men the Publick works in general will not be finished this summer for men is wanted to guard those that are to work or more seamen to man the Boats and keep them constantly going round the Island at present everything is done that can possibly be done and I must say everything is going on. with great expedition considering the few men we have, I am now waiting the arrival of Capt. Brehm, or Mr. Twiss before I leave this and the moment I receive more gun Boats I shall fit the Row-Galley for a Vessel of Transport and expedition which will forward boath greatly if found necessary. I am &c Genl. Haldimand JOHN SCHANK [B 141, p 119]



Page 435


LETTER FROM GEN. HALDIMAND.

435

LETTER FROM GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. [Translation.] QUEBEC June 17 1779 I take the first opportunity my dear General to write to you to ask if the letters which I wrote to you by Halifax had arrived. I hope you will learn with pleasure that I have entirely recovered from my rheumatism & that I am astonishingly well. The death of Captain Foy my secretary will save as an excuse. I find myself, by this loss overwhelmed with work, it increases every day & the least neglect throws all the affairs into a confusion from which I find it almost impossible to extricate myself. I have asked Capt. Mathews of the 8th RegtL to succeed Capt Foy. People speak well of him & I hope he will accede to my wishes as it is necessary to put him at once auz fait with a service so complicated & if you could see the labrynth into which I am plunged you would have pity on me. Nearlywa year has passed since my arrival here without properly knowing what was happening on your continent. I am surrounded with enemies & can hope for little help for the Province since France has made an alliance with the Rebels & are not ashamed to make public by the Court d' Estaing a declaration to incite these people to revolt by the most engaging promises for the French. In addition to thie the unhappy expedition of Lt. Govr Hamilton to the Illinois, an undertaking without my orders, which would perhaps have been useful had he had the prudence to retire in time. This is between ourselves. The second journey of Bourgoin which appeared to follow as unfortunately. It would appear as if a fatality accompanied all our undertakings. If they had kept the two companies of the 14th Regiment wlich I had left at the Illinois when I commanded at New York, we would have assured the possession of that country & prevented all the misfortunes which appeared to be the consequence &c. J&tc. I wrote to you the 30th of May by Halifax to inform you that I had written to My Lord North to ask him to give me a situation which is vacant in this Province & which they tell me is in his gift, I send you a copy of the letter which I wrote to him in order that if necessary you can serve me. The nephew I recommended is as old as my aide de camp & also a Lieutenant but he had the misfortune to fall from a horse which causes him to spit blood, he is often indisposed & is not allowed any violent exercise. The employment which I ask for him is not of consequence, he could perhaps have a deputy, it would make a little retreat for him when he quits the service for which he



Page 436


436

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

is not fit & I could by this means establish him in this Province which has need of honest men. There are two situations vacant by the death of Capt Foy. I have given the one to Capt. Brehm & the other to Major Holland two officers who by their knowledge & activity can be very useful to the King's service, which shall always determine me in my choice & from which I shall never depart. The best of Princes are often surprised & I think it is necessary to lose no time. Good by my dear General. Give my compliments to my friends & be assured that I am for life Yours F. H. My servant Louys has turned out very badly, his temper has got the better of him & has caused me much expence & annoyance. I will send him back as soon as I have accommodation. There is a Mr. Montrose in the regiment of Erlack in France, brother of the one we know, who asks for one of my nieces in marriage, if you could let me know his character and conduct you would infinitely oblige me. Perhaps he can be brought to this country & I repeat to you that it is necessary to bring those subjects on which the Government can rely. Good-bye again remember me to Salzas & your family. F, H. [B 66, p 137] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. Lieut Colo. Bolton. QUEBEC SIR 18 June 1779. Inclosed I send for your Information a letter to Capt. Lernoult which nothing but my extreme anxiety for the preservation of Detroit could have induced me to write, and I trust that officer's zeal will make a proper use of such authority. I particularly desire the contents may not be known to any person and should the conduct of any of the inhabitants make it necessary to have them to Niagara, you have full authority either to keep them there or forward them to Carleton Island but you must not send them lower down without particular orders from me for that purpose. Having formed certain regulations relative to the payment of Expences in the Naval Department I have ordered Capt. Schank to examine minutely into the several articles of Capt. Grant's last account amounting to upwards of ~7000 and in case either Capt. Brehm or Schanks find any irregularity in the Vouchers they are immediately to



Page 437


LT. COL. JAMES BRUCE TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

437

send Capt. Grant with all his accounts to Quebec to have them finally arranged here. Major Nairne going to Carleton Island has my orders to carry for you 3 or 400 Dollars in silver or at least as many as he can procure at Montreal I am &c To [signed] F. H. Lieut Col. Bolton Commanding at Niagara. [B 104, p 32] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT. Extract of a Letter from Major De Peyster to Capt. Lernoult dated at Michilimackinac the 20h June 1779. "Mr. Chevallier writes me that Fifteen hundred Rebels (as a Savage related to him) are to assemble at Post Vincent to make a fiovement to Detroit. Accounts of this sort I suppose you have daily Reports one also spread here of a different nature, "that the Mascoutins & Quicapous have surprised the Rebels at Post Vincent, have taken their arms ammunition & Provisions and sent them about their Business. The men I believe to be as true as the other. "The enclosed speeches I heve not time to copy, I must therefore beg of you to read them to the Lieut. Col. You will think with me that it would not be prudent that they took Wind. I wish as Capt. Schanks has not arrived that you had sent back the "Wellcome" the sooner she is sent back the better. As I want to make a stroke upon some very bad subjects and to collect a quantity of corn the Rebels have in their View. [B 100, p 197] LT. OOL. JAMES BRUCE TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. SIR HALIFAX 20h June 1779. I had the honor of your letter of the 26h Ult. last night, Brigadier Maclean left this the third of this month on an Expedition, for the particulars of w"o I refer you to Lieut Governor Hughes Letter. I am sorry to observe the misfortune of Lieut Governor Hamilton, Ho.w could he think of going on an Expedition without your leave, cannot conceive. I am glad to find by your* postscript of 31st May that a reinforcement had reached Detroit, which I hope will enable it to hold out



Page 438


438

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

against any force they can bring, & that you have received such succour from Britain as will enable you to render every attempt they may make against Canada fruitless. We have had no vessel from New York since the Romulous, so that we are intirely ignorant what is doing there, Colonel Guy Johnston with Lt. Col. Speth of the Brunswick Troops, will sail this day if the wind is fair on Board of the Ship Eagle who fortunately came in here, from the West Indies, she is a Transport with Cloathing & Medecines for your Army & some Recruits, was blown off this Coast last year, had she not arrived there was not a ship to have carried them from this, she mounts eighteen six and four Pounders. Lieut Governor Hughes has done every -thing he could to expediate her and Colonel Johnston has had every thing he asked, powder excepted, of which I think she has enough, and to put her into the strongest state of defence, I have gone greater lengths in ordering things from the Magazine than I ought, or had a right to do, but as I think it for the good of the service, it was my duty. Brigadier McLean took the Frigate and every ship of war with him, the Fauleen Sloop excepted who cannot be ready for sea for some weeks, there only remained a small schooner of 10-2 Pounders and a Sloop of Eight belongifng to 'the Army which I am obliged to send -Convoy with a vessel loaded with Provisions up the Bay of Fundy for the out Posts and for fear of their being too weak, I have hired a Privateer to go with them which was lately sent in here, on board of which must send a Detachment of Soldiers for want of men by this you will observe it was not possible to send any of them, with Colonel Johnston whose ship I think so strong and well mann'd that there is little risque if they do their duty. Every thing is quiet in this Province. By a Rebel Paper from Boston we learn that Sir George Ccllier from N. York had gone with some Troops on an Expedition up James's River, and had taken 17 ships loaded with Tobacco, two of which old French 74 gun men of war arme' en flute it is said the likewise burnt the Towns of Portsmouth and Hampton. The loss of the Tobacco must be severely felt by the french who no doubt depended on that to pay for the advance they have been at. We long to have a confirmation of this. The people we hear about Boston are very tired of the War, & do not seem to like their allies the french. A few days ago a Brig from Glasgow was taken almost within reach of our Battery, on seeing this I order'd out the armed Schooner &c. made the Privateer runaway but she run the Prize first on shore, but mnost of her cargo, and even the ship it is thought will be saved, she is worth about ~12000, by a news



Page 439


CAPT. LERNOULT TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

439

paper which Governor Hughes sends you will see the Capitulation of Pondischerry taken Oct last by General Munro. this must hurt them very much my letters further say that the Town of Liverpool has made by Prizes ~7000000, Glasgow ~1000000 the other ports in the Kingdom above ~2000000, the nation in very great spirits. By a schooner lately from St. Kitts the french fleet were blocked up at Martinico, both they and the Island in great want of Provisions, can we but reduce their W. I. Islands, they would soon sue for peace. I have taken the liberty of writing you all the news I have heard. You may depend on the earliest Intelligence should I hear any thing that can be of the least use to you. I have the honor to be with great regard Sir Your most obedient humble Servant JAMES BRUCE Lt. Col. 70h Regt. Endorsed: 1779. From Lieut Col. Brace of the 70h Regt at Halifax. of the 20h June Reed 15h July at 9 o'clock. [B 149, p 52] CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT TO LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON. Extract of a Letter from Capt. Lernoult dated at Detroit June 23rd 1779 to Lieut Col. Bolton. "On Capt. Brehm's return from the Miamis River, he delivered to me the explanation of the Belt, which is a very spirited one-I read it yesterday to the Hurons in Council it awaken'd them-Two Parties, one of 34, the other of 15, promised to set off for war, and assist their Brother's at St Dusk4. I expect the Ottawas, Chippewas, & Pottawatamies in four days to Council, when I will repeat it to them & encourage them all I can to set off for War. "I was very sorry Joseph's attention was necessary another way persuaded he and his Warriors would have spirited up our Indians greatly they always rely more on what is said to them by one of their own color than anything coming from one of us. "As you mentioned to Capt. Brehm your wanting a small vessel to forward things between Fort Schlosser & Fort Erie, I send off the Faith, that you may appoint whichever of the small vessels you think



Page 440


440

RALDIMAND PAPERS.

best for that service-The Hope & the new Packet will be ready to sail in a few days-We must take Sailors out of the Vessels of War to man them, which cannot be help'd. "The demands for Indians will be very large, if they enter heartily in the cause, which I have some hopes they will. I believe the Rebels intend pushing them hard this campaign, which urges the Chiefs apply strongly for help from the Troops. I hope the General will send up strong reinforcements as the Indians alone cannot attempt anything of consequence, & will either abandon their Villages or make peace, either of which will be fatal to our Interest. I enclose copies of the last letters from Captain Bird, which show how precarious his situation is,,and what a triffle has made, all his sanguine hopes vanish. Two of his *Party (Cook & Davison both grenadiers) arrived here yesterday ill of Ague, and I expect Bird will soon return as he despairs of raising;any numbers sufficient to repulse them at Tuscarawa, I will urge all I;can to go and join him & perhaps will be under the necessity of -urging some Rangers with them, yet I could wish to learn Joseph's.mind before I undertake anything of consequence, possibly we may see him here. I will make him & his warriors very welcome. "The weather is so very sultry & our sick encreasing has induced me to have the Works carried on early & late, so as to let the men rest the heat of the day. We try'd the Faith with Twenty Oars against Tide this morning & went at the rate of four Knots an hour. JB 100, p 204] Calculation of Rum necessary p' day for Detroit, taken from the Issues between 25th December 1778 and 24th June 1779 -Gallons Issued Seamen & Carpenters from 25th Dec to 24th Mar 500-5 Issued Indians Labourers at the Works & other extras do 2995-1j Loss by Leakage do 279-5 Issues to Seamen & Carpenters from 25th March to 24th June 534-7 Issues to Indians and Extras do 4071-5 Loss by Leakage do 368-4 182 daysJ 8750-3 [ 48



Page 441


GEN. HALDIMAND TO. LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL.

441

728 1470 1456 14 8 To 112 Captain Dederick Brehm. SAML. FLEMING Deputy Commissary - Endorsed Calculation of the Dayly Expenditure of rum From 25th Deer 1778 to 24th June 1779. [B 192, p 411 GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC 28h June 1779. 6SIR, I have received your letter of the 24h Instant. As Mr. La Mothe is so usefull in the Field, it were certainly better to employ him at Carleton Island where he might occasionally act in conducting a Scout -or as an Interpreter. However if you cannot find any of the Department so well qualified to act as a general Interpreter, he may, for the present, remain at Montreal. Your Letter by Express enclosing a copy of Major De Peysters to you, is Just received. By letters I have from him, I am induced to give permission to about forty canoes to proceed with the Trade to the Upper Country. You will please to send by this opportunity, the articles for the Indians required by Major De Peyster. The Express will return from Montreal with the Merchants passes for me to sign. I shall by that occasion forward eight Indian Commissions to Major De Peyster, with one as a form for him to fill them up by. The following is an Extract from Major De Peyster's Letter to me, in 6onsequence of which you may appoint him to the Indian Department, at one Dollar and one Ration per Day and employ him as recommended by Major De Peyster. "I believe the Sieur Calv6 to be a very honest, inoffensive man it "would not be amiss to give him a dollar and a Ration per day, and "'send him into the Sach and Reinard Country, where he has some 66j



Page 442


442

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

".Influence, otherwise, I have too many useless people about me, not "but the Interpreter who can give me any real assistance." I am Sir &c. Lt. Col. Campbell [signed] FRED HALDIMAND [B 113, p 37] ______ INTELLIGENCE FROM MIAMIS. [Translation.] Copy of Intelligence from Miamis June 28th 1779 inclosed in a letter to Mr. Colin Andrews. News from the Illinois. A man named Jean Baptiste Constant arrived from the Illinois with Ouiatenous on the 9th of June & assured us that Colonel Clark had left Kaskaskias the 3d or 4th of the present month at the head of 90G men, being Virginians, French & Spanish to go to Post Vincennes. That Colonel Montgomerie (who left last spring on an expedition to the Chickasaws & Cherokees where he entirely destroyed 17 villages), had arrived at a place called the Burnt Wood (le Bois Brul6) with 600 men, fifty miles from Kaskaskias must (after some days rest for his troops) rejoin Le Gras at the posts & continue their routes together as far as Detroit. That the artillery left Kaskaskias escorted by a small detachment, they have 300 horse, and many horned cattle following the detachment. The news appears so much more certain as Capt. Helm has sent tofortify the Ouias & a place called la Chaumiere, it is a man called Brossard who is to build. All the hunters of the Illinois have been engaged to follow the detachment. CELONON. Intelligence by Mr. Gonin. SIR Three Frenchmen arrived here yesterday who report that it is true that "the Bostonians are going to Detroit. They have three hundred. horses which they have bought & which they have shut into a Park. & many horned cattle, they have engaged many hunters to hunt on the journey so that they will not require the horned cattle on their route. They say that they left the post with some Peroques to carry



Page 443


INTELLIGENCE FROM MIAMIS.

443

their artillery. Mr. Mongomerie arrived at the Illinois & reports that, they have defeated eighteen Cherokee & Choye villages. Colonel Clark will make a diversion by going to Detroit as the French report. I do not doubt that it is true after their enterprise this Winter. This morning le Gris sent to tell me that you are at a loss how to send this news to our father. I send off secretly to morrow morning two young men to carry the letter to the Glaize; they will make all diligence to give it to our father. There is a pipe which I have smoked within, I send the pipe to our brothers the men of Detroit with a carrot of tobacco to smoke, who will take courage.: We are very small here to oppose their passage. I hope my father that.you will give us troops. I had the news a short time ago from the Ouias & do my best to inform you of it. I have the honor &c NICHOLAS LORRAIN. To Capt. Lernoult. enclosed in this letter was the following speech from the Miamis Indians. My father, we chiefs & all the young men & war chiefs have decided that we will pass no goods nor ammunition in the portage but by thy order. We had thought that we would be strong & we are miserable this Autumn, we pray you to supply our needs, all our neighbours are obliged to come here to look for their subsistence. My father I assure you that no one shall give help to the enemy the portage is blocked. As for me I press thy hand & all the nations on the way to Detroit. I am 'as a soldier (en faetium) in action. I have eyes & ears open. The first news which comes from that way I will let you know. My father My heart makes one with thine & all the nations on the way to Detroit, all thy children press your hand & wish you good day. rThe Grey & the ] signed LE GRIS I Large Wolf & LE Gnoss Loup Endorsed: Intelligence from the Miamis 1779. [B 182, p 97]



Page 444


444

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

SPEECH TO THE INDIANS BY GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. QUEBEC 2 July 1779. His Excellency General Haldimand's speech to the Indians resorting to Michilimakinac and in its vicinity. After going thro' the usual ceremony of Condoleance with three strings of Wampum to wipe their eyes to see, clear the Throat to speak, & open their ears to hear: go on as follows. Childeren the Ottawas, Chipeways, Misisageys and other Indian Nations at Michilizn Being persuaded that there are among you as many other Nations mischiefeous Birds that whisper into your Ears all manner of bad news and Falsehoods to disturb your well being and unanimity in order to bring you into strife & trouble. I therefore by this String of Wampum earnestly advise you not to give ear to such Birds but give due attention to what I am going to tell you it being meant for your Welfare, and what you may depend upon as Fact and real Truth. A String of Wampum. ChilderenI dare say you are acquainted that the King your Father has at last been oblidged to chastize & correct his undutiful & rebellious children the Bostonians for attempting to disown and rise against him who has allways been a tender & affectionate Father rearing them from their Infancy with a great deal of care & Expence, untill they grew strong & able to support themselves. No sooner did they arrive to that state of maturity & ease, but they most shamefully & ungratefully forgot their filial Duty & affection & even when they thought themselves formidable enough they rose against him in order to dis possess him of a country he legally owned near Two hundred years, and become Possessors & Masters both of that and the Indian Country, for which reason you must be sensible that they first began with the Indians upon the Ohio endeavouring to drive them off & settle that Country by Force of Arms and were they to obtain their end they would soon drive all the Indians from their Lands & become their masters. But their efforts have hitherto proved ineffectual by means of the King your Father's superior Force both by Sea & Land and they loosing ground and growing weaker every day and confused in their Councils they were inconsiderate enough to send a party of their People once more into the Indian Country by way of the Illinois, and I am sorry to say the Indians were so blind to their interest as to



Page 445


SPEECH TO THE INDIANS BY GEN. HALDIMAND.

445

suffer them to penetrate as far as St. Vincents and Tuscarrawas whereby they not only run the risque of losing their country but the supplies of every necessary of Life they want which they must get from this country, the Rebels being destitute of everything themselves as the King your Father's ships stop up all their ports that no goods can get in; and as the Bostonians know that the River St. Lawrence is open whereby all the Indns Nations in Canada are plentifully supplied with every article in Trade they made an attempt to get possession in their country in order to seize upon the Traders & their goods which is the Reason that I have stopd my People who are trading among you from setting out as early as usual for fear of running the risque of their Lives & Property & your being deprived of your necessaries. And let me tell you children that if you dont endeavour to keep your country clear of these People for the future you must expect tb. be entirely without trade as I wont expose my people's lives & property if they cant go into your country with safety. I think it is the least thing for so numerous a body of People as you are to keep a handfull of Bostonians out of it. I for my part have not been idle for these 4 years passt to keep this River open that. you may have your supplies and defend this country from the Incursions of the Rebels, who make frequent attempts to attack it in order to cut off the communication with you which point if they should gain would deprive you of every kind of cloathing & ammunitiou for the King your Father's Ships would immediately block up this River that not a single ship of the Rebels or their allies with merchandize could get in, sothat you must be convinced that it is for your essential welfare and Interest to do your part & keep your country clear of the Bostonians. A large Belt. Children, As to the stories these evil birds carry about and whisper into your ears with regard to your former fathers the French coming among you again. I shall tell you the Truth of the matter and you may depend upon it as a Fact for I never told an untruth yet in my Life. The Bostonians seeing themselves not able enough to stand up against their Father the King, sent some of their most cunning men, to your former father the King of France telling him many false stories how rich and able they were to fight against their father the King of England, but that they had no large ships like his. If therefore the French King would only hire them some of his big Ships to fight for them they would pay him well & trade with him. The french would not for a long while agree to their request till they beg'd and. promised him so much that at last they prevailed on him to send out



Page 446


446

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

15 large ships to help the Bostonians which was last summer & accordingly they Joined the Bostonian Army at Rhode Island. As soon as the King of England's Ships at New York heard of it they went in search of them and when they came in sight of the french ships they immediately left the Bostonians and went to sea & the English ships pursuing them could not stop them to fight but had some shot at them now and then, since that the French ships went to the West Indias where the English followed them & taking a french Island the french General wanted to take it from them again with his Fleet & army but was beat off with the Loss of 3000 men & run away to an other Island where he is now shut up by the English Fleet & dare not come to fight them & your Father the King of England has now such a numerous fleet which within the 12 months has been so successful in the East Indias & everywhere that the French Fleet wont show itself. Now the King of France is so angry with the Bostonians that they brought them into this Quarrel that he wont send them a ship or a man more, and you wont see him so soon for which reason I have called some of your People that wintered at Montreal to come to this place where I convinced them that there was no French ship here or in y~ mouth of this River this Spring. I can assure you Children that whenever I find that the french will get the better of this Country I shall act the same part which your late father Vaudreuil as to acquaint you of it myself, till then I beg you will keep yourselves quiet follow your hunting & trade & keep the Bostonians out of your country in order to enjoy peace & plenty. A Belt. Endorsed: Speech to the Indians at Michilimakinac copy of which sent to Major De Peyster the 3d July 79. [B 119, p 52] CAPT ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC July 3rd 1779. SIR, I am commanded by His Excellency Genl. Haldimand to transmit to you the enclosed letters and Commissions for Indians, which he desires you will forward to Major De Peyster, together with the Medals and other Articles before mentioned by the first Canoe. I am Sir &c. To [signed] ROBT. MATHEWS. Lieutenant Colonel Campbell Secry. at Montreal 3d July [B 113, p 39]



Page 447


GEN. HALDIMAND TO COL. JOHN CAMPBELL.

447

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC the 5h July 1779. LIEUT COL. CAMPBELL Sir I have received your letter of the 1st July and am glad you have sent off the Scout. Capt. Fraser from his vicinity to the Country it is destined to, may no doubt be provided with some Intelligence or Hints necessary to impart to Mr. Lorimier which I am persuaded he will cheerfully 'communicate to him but knowing the misunderstanding that has subsisted between those gentlemen, I wish it had occur to you that it might have been more conduced to His Majesty's Service to have given orders yourself to Mr. Lorimer, than to admit the Probability of differing in opinions, from which, if bad consequences to the service do not result, a slackness & luke-warm execution of Duty is too,often produced. I should have hoped that the Information of Mr. Houghton and the gentlemen employed with him would have enabled you to give Mr. Lorimier some final Instructions, without refusing him to any other Person, but as circumstances on his Route, might require your observations upon the expediency of stating Captn. Fraser at -Carleton Island are very Just, I may be able to effect it some time hence, but at present I do not wish to remove Captain Fraser to such.a distance, nor is it possible untill the arrival of Provisions to increase the consumption of that article at any of the upper Posts, which would -necessarily happen by sending with Capt. Fraser those people he would have occasion for. I read with great concern your account of Pere Gordon's death, we have lost in him a faithfull and usefull subject, to prevent as much as possible the advantages that may be taken of this event at the village -where he presided, I would have Mr. Johnson return immediately to it, taking with him if you think it necessary some of the Department.as an Interpreter or usefull Person to him. I am sorry that the offer I made to the Lieut Calv6 is inconsistent with his Commercial views any service he may occasionally render to Government, I.shall always be glad to reward. The Michilimackinac Indians are arrived and those of the Six Nations shall be taken care of when they come. I must endeavour to amuse them untill the arrival of the Fleet, which I impatiently wait for. I am Sir &c. &c. To Lieut Colonel Campbell July 5h [B 113, p 40] -



Page 448


448

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM TO LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON.. Extract of a Letter from Captain Brehm to Lieut. Col. Bolton datedl at Detroit the 5th of July 1779. "The General was very desirous to hear of Michilimackinac, the state of Defence it was in & if merchandise could be ventured to be sent: up with safety. I have encloced him Major De Peyster's letter, who does not appre-- hend the least Danger from the Rebels, but has made Demands of four Pieces of Brass six-Pounders, 100 Shells of 4- Inch 100 Fuzces for do,. ready for service, 4 sets of mens Harness 9 Aprons of Lead 4. doz. Port Fires-200 Tin Tubes-2 Tanned Hides-Copper Powder Measure of 1 lb 1 oz & J an ounce-3 doz" Spades- 2 doz" Shovels-4 Hand Saws-- 4 Broad Axes-90 lbs Steel-500 lbs Iron-6 Barrels of Powder-10 Reams of Musket Cartridge Paper-2 long Planes-2 Jack do-Any of the above. articles that you can send with 50 more Pick Axes for this Post, I'll take it as a particular favor to forward them by the first vessel. I have enclosed the Major's Demands to the General who will order. up the demands to be forwarded, out of which you will please to take, any article you have furnished" [B 100, p 196] MAJOR ARENT S. DE* PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. MICHILIMACKINAC 6th July SIR 1779. On the 3d Inst I received Intelligence that the Rebels were forming an Expedition against Detroit, from the Illinois, composed of 700 men, by the Wabash & Miamis & 200 Horses to pass by St. Joseph's-One Linctot a Canadian Trader commands the Horse. On receiving these accounts I immediately detachfd Lieut Bennet with 1 Serjeant, 2 Corporals, 1 Drummer, & 14 Privates, with about 60 Traders & Canoe men and 200 Indians. to take Post at St. Joseph's, to watch Mr. Linctot's motions, and intercept him, if already passed. I have purchas'di the Sloop Wellcome & sent her with some goods & Provisions.. I flatter myself that this movement will greatly disconcert their scheme, as in all probability according to the Plan concerted (If tleIndians do their part as they promise) Linctot must he auxprised. You. see, Sir, that my command is daily decreasing.



Page 449


CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO COL. CAMPBELL.

449

I bope we shall soon be reinforced, as yet not a vessel from Detroit I am Sir Your most Humble and Lt. Col. obedient Servant Mason Bolton. [signed]. AT. S. DE PEYSTER [B 100, p 218] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC 12h July 1779. Sla I am commanded by His Excellency General Haldimand to acquaint you that he, this morning received your Letter accompanying Major De Peyster's dispatch, which brings accounts of all being quiet and well at Michilimackinac. His Excellency wishes that all the Letters had been committed to the care of Mr. Huisse only, as Mr. de Coagne having delivered some of them, considers himself express and will expect to have his expenses back allowed. Mr. Calv6 will set out for Montreal to morrow with some of the Upper Country Indians, by him, you will hear from His Excellency upon the subject of their return home and the presents they are to receive.

[signed]

I am Sir &c ROBT. MATHEWS Secy.

Lieut Col Campbell '{B 113, p 43]

CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO EDWARD GRAY MR. GRAY QUEBEC 13th July 1779. SIR, I am commanded by His Excellency General Haldimand to acquaint you that in consequence of the services rendered to Government by Mr. Calv6; he has granted him a Pass for one Canoe to convey his family & some Effects to Michillimakinac, the Pass is sent Blank, you will please to see that it is filled up, & transmit to His Excellency a copy of the Articles.

I am &ca ROBERT MATHEWS.

[signed]

Endorsed Copy 1779. From Captain Mathews to Edward Gray Eeq r 13h July, [B 61, p 7] 57



Page 450


450

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

EDWARD M. GRAY TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. MONTREAL 15h July 1779 SIR In consequence of your Excellency's directions in your Letter of the 12h Instant I waited upon Mrs Howard & acquainted her that you had authorized me to accept the security offered by Mess Stenhouse & McNeall for Mr. Howard's effects seized by virtue of the Ordinance of the Province, but she said that she had received a Letter from him informing her that security was given for them at Michilimakinac and therefore it was unnecessary to give any here. I shall forward your Excellency's Letter to Major de Peyster, by the first opportunity and acquaint him with Mrs. Howard's answer. I have the honor to be Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servant EDWARD M. GRAY His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Governor & Commander in Chief. Endorsed:-From Edward M. Gray Esq r of 15h July receiv d 17h 1779. [B 184-2, p 653] CAPT. JOHN SCHANK TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA 16h July 1779. SIR I have the Honour to acquaint your Excellency I arrived here on the llh with all the guns, those sent from this from Detroit having gone off a few days before, a Vessel is arrived at Fort Erie, and in three or four days shall sail for Detroit taking with me all the other guns and stores. I have received another Letter from Capt Brehm dated July 8h who seems not to be certain of his time of returning and he very politely refers all regulations from your Excelly. for the Naval Dept. to be decided by me, and the same time desires me to suspend my opinion of the reports of Capt. Grant untill my arrival at Detroit. Your Excellency may rest assured no circumstance will deter me from obeying your orders and putting up with everything let it be ever so disagreeable while it is for the good of the service of which you have been pleased to entrust me with and I make no doubt with



Page 451


GEN. HALDIMAND TO CAPT. BREHM.

451

the advice of Capt. Brehm I shall be able to give satisfaction while I have the Honour to be with the greatest respect Yours &c. &c. Genl. Haldimand. JOHN SCHANK [B 141, p 153] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO CAPT. DEDERICK BREHM [Translation] QUEBEC 23d July 79 -SIR, I received yesterday your two letters dated Detroit the 5th Instant & as I hope you would have been able to leave a few days afterwards to come to the Cedars, as I propose to build there this Autumn a store which can contain 1000 barrels of provisions & to leave there 100 batteaux, I ask you to carefully examine the best place where all could be protected by two log houses, capable of lodging a company, the rest of the detachment necessary for the security of the post could be put in quarters among the nearest inhabitants. Circumstances are very inconvenient seeing that we have to establish there a ship yard for the construction of batteaux, all the materials were already collected at Montreal where the workmen & their families but in sending the carpenters early, as soon as the navigation will be open we might gain time. I have allowed 40 canoes to leave for the Grand Portage & 20 others for Michillimakinak. I do not think it would be prudent to allow more to go up this year, thus being careful in consequence of the merchants of Montreal who would persecute me for passports. I wish you a prompt arrival here & remain Very faithfully Sir your humble & obedient Servant FRED HALDIMAND Endorsed: Copy to Capt. Brehm of the 23d July.: [B 99, p 97] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC SIR 23 July 1779. The Expence and the Expenditure of Rum at Detroit is beyond



Page 452


452

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

comprehension, I wish some means could be fallen upon to prevent the merchants from carrying up such quantities for while the Indians or even the soldiers know it is there, they will continually importune those who have the power of supplying them, and such a quantity of Rum must be hurtful to the men's health independent to the loss to Government. The Rum I have sent up will for the future ease this Expenditure. I hope you have issued orders to the different posts that no rum is to be bought from Traders while any remains in the King's stores from whence Rum for Indians, and all extraordinaries is to be supplied. From the absolute necessity of forwarding provisions it will be totally impossible to supply Detroit and Michilimackinac with the Artillery required, the former may be supplied for the present, with the few guns wanted, from the ships, there being little probability that they will be wanted the Rebels having no vessels upon the Lakes-and as they cannot convey cannon to the latter-the supply to that place can be better dispensed with. Lieut Col. Bolton. I am &c [B 104, p 34] LETTER FROM N. LAFORCE. [Translation] SIR Captain Schank having left this post on the 9h Inst. on his Journey to Detroit has ordered me to stay here in his place and take the Command of all which concerns the Marine and building. Consequently I do all in my power to fulfil his views and I hope that he will be satisfied with our vigilance on his return. I have the honor to inform you that since his departure we have put a new vessel on the stocks and that if we had all our timber cut it would have been promptly finished but we have actually thirty men in a neighbouring Island to fell the rest of the timber necessary besides a guard by sea and land to protect them; all here with the transport of the said timber will take long & after that we will get forward. Capt. Schank led me to hope he would be here about the end of August. I shall be charmed to think that the works have not been neglected in his absence I hope that His Excellency will honor me with his orders while waiting. The Transport of Provisions is going on with vigilance. The King's



Page 453


GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

453

Magazines are for those concerned in the Upper Posts & I have reason to hope that the Buildings will be done in good time so as not to be exposed to the worst seasons. I have the honor to be &c N. LAFORCE Carleton Island 24h July 1779 [B 141, p 154] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO CAPT. HARRIS. Capt Harris 34h Regt [Copy] QUEBEC the 6h Augt SIR, 1779. Having some Reason to think that there is not so pressing a necessity, as I first imagined, to Reinforce Niagara, or Detroit at present. I am unwilling that you should pursue your Route thither untill further Intelligence is received from Lieut. Col. Bolton but to provide for what may happen, I have to desire that you will proceed to Carleton Island, and if you should receive orders from Col. Bolton to join him, you are to do it, with all possible expedition, in the mean time, you will put yourself under command of Major Nairn giving him, with your company, every assistance in your Power, both in forwarding the works and in sending out such Scouts as he may from time to time think necessary during your stay at that Post. I am Sir Your most obedient & most humble Servant [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Endorsed:-Copy 1779 To Capt. Harris 04h Regt of the 5h August. [B 128, p 31] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COeI MASON BOLTON. Lieut Colonel Bolton QUEBEC SIR, 9th August 1779. In consequence of a Representation from Major De Peyster of the utility that would arise to the service from having a small vessel passing from time to time between Detroit and Michilimakinac for the purpose of communicating with Capt Lernoult and supporting the spirit of the Indians by frequent Intelligence of what is going forward, I must desire that you will give the necessary orders thereupon, it so



Page 454


454

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

happens that the Welcome is often detained at either of the above places so long that the Indians lose their patience from their natural anxiety for news. In an extract of a letter from Major Butler to you I observe the following paragraph viz. "I have discovered the reason which has "made it so difficult for me to get Cattle from the Indians. Some "persons at Niagara, either out of Jealousy or some other motive, " have endeavoured to persuade the Indians that they were imposed "upon, that they were paid too small a price for their cattle, that for "the future they ought to demand twelve pounds a Head & that in " ready money which they could always get for them at Niagara " and have succeeded so well that scarce the smallest article is to be got without immediate payment which obliges me to send Lieut Willm Johnson to Niagara to fetch me a quantity of cash, as well to pay what I have borrowed, as to enable me to purchase me more cattle. I must desire that you will make every possible research into this affair in order to discover the authors of so pernicious a Doctrine to the Indians, who should be taught to expect every benefit immediately from the hand of government, & to place their sole dependance on it. Let me know your success, and if the discoveries you may make are such as you think can depend on, I shall immediately order the Delinquents down to this place & if Traders their goods likewise.' In another extract you send me I find a Tousaint Pothier is mentioned as a retailer of very important news & tending to disaffect the Inhabitants & Savages in the neighbourhood of Detroit. Please to desire Capt. Lernoult that if that gentleman should from his conduct be of the smallest Prejudice to the service to send him down Prisoner to this Place, without hesitation, furnishing me with his reasons for so doing. If the Inhabitants of Michilimackinac are likely to experience Distress from a want of Corn, owing to the necessary Embargo laid upon that article at Detroit, when the arrival of supplys from below was uncertain. That doubt being now removed, Capt. Lernoult will of course allow whatever quantity can be spared, to be sent before the season for navigating the Lake is over. I have in the mean time permitted twenty five Canoes to be sent up the Grand River loaded. with Provisions only & to return with Peltry. I am &ca To [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Lieut Col. Bolton [B 104, p 41]



Page 455


LIEUT. THOMAS BENNET TO CAPT. LERNOULT.

455

MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO THOMAS BENTLEY. MICHILIMACINAC SIR 9 Augt. 1779. I received your letter of the 14h July yesterday. I am sorry it is not in my power (with propriety) to comply with your request, in writing to the General giving him my opinion & transmitting His Excellency copies of my letters to Lt. Gov. Hamilton, unasked. Mr. Hamilton assured me that he sent copies of my letters to General Carleton; For my part I must acknowledge I never could learn any thing to your disadvantage. I arrested you in consequence of repeated letters from Mr. Hamilton whlo I assured at the time I sent you to Detroit that if Beanner was your accuser he bore a very bad Character and was much in debt to you. I remember your telling me that you had not the necessary papers with you or you would soon prove your innocency to Mr. Hamilton which I most sincerely wish had been in your power. I am Sir Your most obedt. & hble Servt. AT S. DE PEYSTER Mr. Thos. Bentley Endorsed ' 1779 - Letter from Major De Peyster to Mr. Bentley 9 Augt Mr. Thomas Bentley Smercht. Montreal [B 185-1, p 41] LIEUT. THOMAS BENNET TO CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT. ST. JOSEPH'S Augt 15h 1779. SIR Mr. Baubin's zeal for the service induced him to join us at this place to offer us his assistance. I am sorry our present situation obliges us to return to Michilimackinac ancd he to go to Detroit. Eighteen days ago I sent Mons' La Rue and Pierre Chevallier to Detroit with a letter to you informing you of my arrival here, and as I saw no probability of an Enemy coming this way, to ask you if I could be of any service at or near Detroit, either with the Detachment under my command, or in conjunction with any other Party you might send to join us, Since that time the Pottawatamies have behaved in the manner you will see by their different speeches (a copy of which Mr. Baubin will



Page 456


456

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

shew you) which has caused all our Indians to leave us. I am now determined to return, not having sufficient Provisions to carry us back, occasioned by the arrival of Mr. Langlade, two days ago with 21 Canadians & 60 Indians (they remain of 200 who left him on the road hearing of a French war & the unsteady conduct of the Pottawatamies (and these 60 are come without Fuzees in the hope of receiving Presents to return) I have collected a few Horses to be in readiness to carry our Provisions should you want as. I am really sorry I cannot wait your orders any longer & so is every soldier & Canadian in the camp our Parties are all returned without being able to bring us any Intelligence, which gives me reason to imagine, that the Rebels are only amusing the Indians with promises they are not able to perform. I hope soon to have the pleasure of seeing you by the way of Michilimackinac. I have sent a strong Black Horse, by Mr. Baubin, which you and Capt. Parke are to have an offer of if you like him, the Price is 100 Dollars. I am Sir Your most Humble Servant [signed] THOMAS BENNET Captain Lernoult Lieut of the King's Regnt [ B 100, p 242] JOHN TODD TO GOV. OF VIRGINIA. KASKASKIA May it please Your Excellency. 18h Augt. 1779. By Letters which I had the honour of writing to you by Colonel Slaughter dated early in July, I gave your Excellency a full account of the situations of their country, since which nothing important has happened here. Col. Clark I suppose is by this time at the Falls of Ohio and as the expedition against Detroit is declined he will probably wait upon you in person. Col. Rogers has arrived from Orleans and will be the Bearer hereof or send it by the earliest opportunity. I am uneasy in knowing that the accounts he will render concerning the quantity as well as the bad condition of the goods cannot be satisfactory. Who is to blame in it? The Batteaux masters who brought it up? The Person in whose care it was left at St. Louis-or the conductor of our stores-or all of them, I cannot determine. The taking and disposing of them was (perhaps necessarily) planned, and in part executed, before my arrival. The Conductors Powers and



Page 457


JOHN TODD TO GOV. OF VIRGINIA.

457

Instructions were in no part derived from me, nor was he answerable to me for any malfeazance in office. Col. Clark will, I doubt not satisfy you in this matter. I wish the opportunity by Col. Rogers were safer. I have 15 or 20 thousand dollars to send down on public account. I have required that all the money of the called-in omissions be sealed up, & stopped from circulating of which I expect we have in the country 20 or 30 thousand Dollars more. I have recommended that the People wait some future opportunity more safe for sending it down. The Resolve of Congress'bears hard upon Illinois, where the risque is so great. If Congress have not yet made provision for the reception of the money, I hope Your Excellency will apply to Congress. I shall be cautious that none of the called-in emissions be brought into this country or certified which may come from any part of the States where the owners had an opportunity of exchanging it. The visiting the different Districts of my charge has so engag'd me that I have not had time to prepare answers to the Queries delivered me by some gentl"' of your Honl. Board. As to the Indian Grants it may be necessary immediately to inform you, that they are almost numberless, only four of them are very Considerable, the smallest of which will be near a 1,000,000 acres, and the whole between 7 & 8 millions of acres. The Grantees all reside in Philadelphia, London, Pensylvania & Virginia and are between 40 & 50, merchants chiefly. How far it may be proper to make such contracts binding upon the Indians I cannot say. I submit it to your Excellency-Whether it is not necessary to prevent Indian Grants, by other methods than making void the purchase; I mean by fines, and at the same time to prevent undue fines &c. the making any settlement within the charter bounds of this State, except under certain Provisions & Regulations: This I apprehend to be necessary immediately as some Land Jobbers from the South side of Ohio have been making Improvements (as they call them) upon the unpurchas'd Lands on this side the River; and are beyond the reach of punishment from me. with the arrival of new adventurers this summer, the same spirit of land Jobbing begins to breathe here. I expected to have been prepared to present to your Excellency some amendments upon the form of government for Illinois, but the present will be attended with no great inconveniences till the Spring Session, when I beg your Permission to attend and get a Discharge from an office, which An unwholesome air, a distance from my connexions, a language not familiar to me, and an impossibility of procuring many 58



Page 458


458

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

of the conveniences of life suitable, all tend to render uncomfortable. As to Military affairs Col. Clark will offer your Excellency observations on that Head, which I wish to defer being more his Province. Perhaps an additional agent for supplying the Indians with goods may be necessary--Mr. Lindsay's commission was for no more than 10,000 Dollars, which he will soon dispose of to the Indians & our Soldiers, who I suppose will expect their cloathing from him. I have given a Letter of Recommendation as an agent to a gentleman lately from New Orleans, who set off with Col. Rogers, Mons. Perrault. If an expedition should be ordered against the Natchez, There cannot be any great dependance placed on the Illinois furnishing more than 100,000 lbs of flour,.& supporting the Troops now here and scarcely any Beef. I have not heard from Williamsburg since January. I am with ye His Excelly. greatest respect &c. &c. The Governor of Virginia JNO TODD Endorsed:-Copy of a Letter from Jno Todd to the governor of Virginia Dated Kaskaskias 18h Augt 1779. [B 184-1 p 124] GEN FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO CAPT. HARRIS. QUEBEC the 26h August 1779. CAPT. HARRIS SIR, Notwithstanding my late orders to you to remain at Carleton Island, I have now to desire that you will proceed, without loss of time, with the Company under your Command to Niagara, and from thence to Detroit, if Lieut. Col. Bolton should think it necessary, to reinforce that Place. I am Sir &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Endorsed Copy 1779 To Capt Harris 34h Regt at Carleton Island 26th August [B 128, p 32] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL MASON BOLTON. COLONEL BOLTON. QUEBEC 26h August 1779. SIR From the information' that has been lately collected it appears tha~



Page 459


p

GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. BOLTON. 4559 the Rebels have serious intentions against Detroit. I have therefore sent the Light Infantry Company of the 34h Regt Commanded by Capt Harris to Niagara, in order that they may proceed immediately to reinforce that place if you should find it necessary, which by Capt Brehm's report of the situation of affairs in that Quarter I imagine you will. All the men belonging to the 32nd Regiment that are recovered are ordered to Detroit. This reinforcement and the advanced state of their works will I hope prevent the success of any attempts that can be made by all the Force Mr. Clark can collect. I have likewise ordered to Niagara a Detachment of the British Artillery tW relieve the Gentl. of that Detachment with you. The commanding officer of Artillery in the Province has sent orders -concerning the circumstances of this Relief; to the officers of.- Artillery at Niagara, which you will allow him to arrange accordingly. I am & FRED HALDIMAIND [B 104, p 48] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. Lieut Col. Bolton QUEBEC SIR 26th August 1779. I have received your letters of the 10th and 11th Instant, with the accounts Vband Bills of the Engineer & Qr Mr General's Departments, and the different enclosures. The impossibility of my taking post at Oswego this season I have already f ully acquainted you of the same reason must prevent my sending Reinforcements to the Posts, which, after the Company I now send, arrives at Detroit will I hope be unnecessary. The improbability of the Rebels penetrating so far into the country as Detroit or Niagara with a Force that may prove fatal to the safety, of either, in their present state, is I think very obvious. I have at the same time my fears that notwithstanding every effort in my power to make in forwarding Provisions to you, the frequent and great drains made from your store may subject you to distress. I would th~erefore recommend to you, both for your Post & Detroit that if you find towards the conclusion of the Campaign, you have nothiing ton apprePhend from the Ene~my, that you do senld down to Canada



Page 460


460

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

prevent your being in want of Provisions in the Spring, before it may be in my power to forward it to you. I send you three maps, one for Niagara, one for Detroit and one for Michilimackinac which are to be transferred to the succeeding commanding officers. I am &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND. [B 104, p 45ige GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO SIR. HENRY CLINTON. QUEBEC 29h August 1779. SIR I enclose to Your Excellency a Letter I have written to General Washington, respecting the Treatment of Lieutenant Governor Hamilton, & his officers, who I should be much pleased to have exchanged, but as many circumstances may have happened to render any such Letter ineffectual, or improper, I intirely leave it at your Excellency's disposal either to suppress, or forward it, as you think best for the Public Service. I have the Honor to be &c To His Excellency [signed] FRED HALDIMAND General Sir Henry Clinton. Since writing the above I have received a Letter from Major Butler of which the enclosed is an Extract. I have.not taken notice of it in my letter to General Washington, being apprehensive that it might in some measure counteract the Purpose of it-but I leave to your Excellency to make what use you may think proper of it-The Indians are so exasperated by this last act of Barbarity that I fear it will not be in the Power of those who have the direction of them to restrain them from retaliating severely whenever they can have an opportunity. F. H. Endorsed Copy 1779 To Sir Henry Clinton 29h Angt. [B 147, p 71] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMIAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON. QUEBEC 29h Aug 7 SIR By His Majesty's Ship Defiance, I have the Honor to enclose herewith, duplicates of my Letters to Your Excellency dated the 19th of;



Page 461


GEN. HALDIMAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON.

461

last month, which I sent by a Matross of the Royal Artillery, on board a merchant ship. I now transmit to you Extracts of every thing the least interesting that has happened since I last wrote-from some of which, I am happy in, being able to persuade myself that you have effected something considerable upon the North River-but much concerned that it has been so little in my Power to make any Diversion in your Favour, which a want of Provisions has rendered totally impossible, as well as taking Post at Oswego, which I fully intended, had the supplies arrived in time to make it at all practicable. Having in the Spring pushed up as much Provisions for the Relief of the Posts, as I could spare from the Lower Part of the Province, to enable me to do which I was under the necessity to continue the Troops in Quarters, dispersed all over the Province, that they might be more easily supplied with Fresh Provisions, to save what little remained of the Salt, having been reduced to a few Days Provisions when the Victuallers arrived-Out of 13 destined for Quebec, there are but 10 arrived, one large one having been cast away upon Newfoundland, & the other two I fear, are fallen into the Enemies Hands, as I find by a late Rebel Paper that vessels of their description have been takenthis misfortune will affect me much, if another supply should not arrive in the fall--The Demands from all the Posts in the Upper Country are so enormous, owing, to the necessity of feeding, not only the Indians collected in different Places, but the old men, women, & children of the Mohawk, Onondago & Cayuga Nations (whose villages have been destroyed at Niagara & those of the Shawanese & Delaware Nations in the same predicament at Detroit. From the attempts meditated by the accounts, against this Province, and actually carrying into Execution in the Upper country, together with Your Excellency's knowledge of the little assistance I have to expect from the Canadians you will perceive how very necessary the succours I have requested will be. I have as much as possible reinforced Detroit, and the forwardness of a work now constructing there, will I hope ensure the safety of the Place, unless the Rebels should be able to make their way to it in great Force which, the growing slackness of the Western Nations from the impossibility of marching into the Field with them may perhaps enable them to effect. Every means in my power to encourage the Five Nations to defend their Country and annoy the Enemy, have been employed, and I hope Your Excellency's operations have been, in some measure facilitated by their Vigilance & activityThey likewise heavily complain that the Burden of the war in that



Page 462


462

HALDIMAND PAPEIRS.

country is left upon their Shoulders-Without Provisions & men particularly the former, it is impossible to assist them materially. The English Fleet arrived ten days ago-a new raised company of Yagers are the only Troops it has brought. I expect in the Fall some German Recruits, picked up upon the High Ways, & probably worse than those already here, who are entirely useless for this kind of war, and rather a Burden than an Increase of Strength. By a late Letter from Lord George Germain I have received Extracts of His Lordship's Letters to you of the 23d January 3d March & 1st April 1779, The contents of which I shall pay particular attention to, and I shall as much as I am able (and it will be in my Power) increase the number of Parties I have upon the Frontiers to alarm them and destroy their Crops, which will be more easily effected when gathered in the Barns--*this, I am sorry to say it, is all the assistance it will be in my power to give you, as by advice I have received, an Expedition by the French, is intended up this river in order to effect a Revolt amongst the Canadians, which perhaps may take a place in the Fall, and oblige to keep a part of the Troops in the lower part of the Province I have the honor &c Endorsed:-To 1779 Sir Henry Clinton 29h Auguet [B 147, p 73J LETTER TO MAJOR NAIRNE. QUEBEC 30h August SIR 1779. Lieut" Gleny and Bunbury are ordered to repair to Detroit, where a General Court Martial is to assemble, as soon after their arrival as possible; as some Evidences requisite for this Trial, are under your commands, the general desires you will permit them to go up to Detroit for that purpose. These two gentlemen have been desired to take as few as possible, that no detriment may arise to the service. I am Major Nairne F. L. M. D. A. G. [B 80, p 164] LETTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC 30h August SIR 1779. Lieuts Gleny and Bunbury have received orders to repair to Detroit,



Page 463


GEN. HALDIMAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON.

46.3

where His Excellency thinks fit, the General Court Martial on these two gentlemen should be held as-soon after their arrival as possible, A Warrant is herewith enclosed appointing Major De Peyster President, and a Blank one is likewise sent for you to fill up, in the name of the person you-may deem fittest to act as Judge Advocate, should there not be a sufficient number of officers at Detroit to compose this Court, His Excellency desires you will order from your Garrison, what may be wanted if the situation of affairs in your parts admits of your doing it. Major Nairne is wrote to, to allow the Evidences these two gentlemen may require from Carleton Island to go up, several papers are also enclosed by His Excellency's orders, relative to the differences in Question, which you will please transmit to Detroit for the information of the Court, if they think it necessary. Iam Lt. Col. Bolton F. L. M. D.-A. G. [B 80, p 163] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO CAPT. FRASER. QUEBEC 21st Sept 1780 SIR This Letter will be delivered to you by Captain Baker, who being charged with my Dispatches for Niagara and Detroit, you will please to forward with the utmost expedition in a light Boat by the North Shore, if no vessel is at Carleton Island or the wind should be contrary. Iam &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Capt Fraser or Officer Commanding at Carleton Island + Endorsed:- Copy 1780 To Capt. Fraser commanding at Carleton Island of the 1st September [B 128, p 74] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON. QUEBEC 4h Sept 1779. SIR HENRY CLINTON SIR Since my letter to your Excellency by His Majesty's ship Defiance, dated the 29h August (of which the inclosed is a duplicate) very dis, agreeable accounts have been transmitted to me from the Upper Country. I inclose to you Extracts of Letters from Lieut Colonel



Page 464


464

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Bolton and Major Butler, from which your Excellency will perceive that we are in great danger of loseing the Alliance of the five Nations, not from any diminution of their Fidelity but really from the Regular Advances of the Enemy into that Country & their seeming determination to reduce them by force. The five nations have long Requested our assistance, and indeed it has very long been promised to them, but it has never been in my power to afford them any, tho' so much the object of my wishes. Having no doubt that they are determined to make peace with the Rebels if their present demand should be refused, upon a conviction that we have not the Power to assist them. I have determined to send off a Detachment of about 340 men & a Large Body of Indians under the Command of Sir John Johnson whose natural Influence with the five Nations, Joined to his zeal and activity,. will I hope produce a happy result. The inconveniences attending this necessity are very great. The uncertainty of being able to transport provisions for so large a Detachment to Niagara, where they must winter, the disappointment that Transport will occasion to the Trade in forwarding the necessary merchandise to the upper Country-and lastly, drawing from this part of the Promise, already so weak, so great a Force-by which, I shall likewise have the mortification of contracting my views in my Intended Excursions to the frontiers, the loss of the Indians must render them less Extensive and of less Effect. I shall however attempt as much as my situation can possibly admit of. I am &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND 14 SEPR. Since the above was written I have received an Express from Carleton Island, with the enclosed copy of a Letter, from Lt. Col. Bolton, by which your Excellency will perceive the very alarming situation of affairs in the upper Countryx. Letters from Detroit likewise advise that the Indians in that neighbourhood, are become very luke warm, & that very little dependance can be had on them. The French have contrived to circulate printed copies signed by Mons. Jerard, of the Count D' estaign's declaration, all through the Illinois and Miamis Countries, which have had a very bad effect with the French and Indians. (Sic) X Sir John Johnsons Detachment is in motion unless it should give them a happy turn-it is to be feared they will terminate very fatally. The Day after the Guadaloup sailed from this place, I received Intelligence that B. General McLean was blocked up by a Rebel Fleet, I immediately dispatched an Express after Her, requesting that Capt.



Page 465


COL. CLARK TO THOMAS JEFFERSON.

465

Robinson would touch at Halifax for such Information as might direct his conduct for the assistance of B, G. McLean & I this day received the enclosed satisfactory answer. Endorsed:-Addition to Sir H. Clinton's Letter of the 4h Sepr. 79 14h Sepr. by Eagle Warrant to Pay Capt George Lawe Pay as Barrack Master of Montreal and Chambly from 25h Decemb'r 1778 to 24h June 1779 inclusive being 182 days at the rate of 5s. Ster. per day Endorsed To Genl. Sir Henry Clinton of the 4h Sep by Return of Halifax Express [B 147, p 77] JEAN DODGE TO MR. LA BRON. [Translation.] FORT DUQUESNE MY DEAR FRIEND, Sept 15h 1779. SIt is with pleasure I inform you that being sent prisoner to Quebec I found means to escape from my enemies. After great difficulties I arrived here to day & had the pleasure of seeing the Governor, Dejean, Linote and the great Mr. Hay, who had gone to the Castle till peace would be made. Spain has made war against England also France has Joined the Americans. I send you the Proclamation of the King of France made at Boston. I pray you to deliver the letter which I send you to Messr" Graverat & Fisher, give the letter yourself & buy all the provisions you need. I hope when you see them you will give my compliments to my dear mother & all the pretty girls which are at Detroit. I am in good. health with good wine. I have the honour to be Your very humble Servt. M '. le Bron JEAN DODGE. [B 184-1, p 128] COL. G. CLARK TO THOMAS JEFFERSON. LOUISVILLE SIR Sep' 23d 1779. I am happy to find your sentiments respecting a fortification at or near the mouth of the Ohio is so agreeable to the Ideas of every man of any Judgement in the Department it is the spot that ought to be strongly fortified and all other Garrisons in the Western Country Depend on it, if the ground would admit of it, but the misfortune is, 59

i



Page 466


466

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

there is not an acre of ground near the point than four mile up the Ohio but what is often ten feet under water about twelve miles below the point there is a beautiful situation as if by nature designed for a fortification (by every observation that has been taken lay a quarter of a degree within the state of Virginia) its elevation is such that a small expence would render it very strong & of greater advantage than one four miles up the Ohio in case you have one built a few years will prove the propriety of it would amediately become the Key of the whole Trade of the Western Country and well situated for the Indian Department in General Besides many salutary effects it would render during the war by awing our Enemies the Chickasaws and the English posts up the Mississippie, the strength of the Garrison ought not to be less than two hundred men, after built a hundred Families that might easily be got to settle in a Town would be of great advantage in promoting the place. I am sensible that the Spaniards would be found to settle a post of correspondance opposite to it if the ground would admit, but the country on their side is so subject to inundation that its impossible, for the want of such a post I find it absolutely necessary to station an armed Boat at the point so as to command the navigation of both rivers to defend our Trading Boats and stop the great concourse of Forces and deserters that pass down the River to our Enemies. The Illinois under its present circumstances is by no means able to supply the Troops that you expect in this department with provisions, as the crops at St. Vincennes was so exceedingly bad that upwards of five hundred souls will have to depend on their neighbours for bread. I should be exceedingly glad that you would commission some person to furnish the Troops in this quarter with Provisions as the greatest part must come from the Frontiers for the ensuing year as I cant depend on the Illinois for supplys than will be sufficient for two hundred and fifty men. there is an easy conveyance down the Tennessee River and provisions more plenty or holston than the neighborhood of Pittsburgh. Col. Jno. Campbell who promises to deliver this Letter to your Excellency I believe would undertake the task at a moderate sallery and a gent of undoubted veracity but pray order as much provisions down as will serve the Troops you intend sending out at least six months. I am His Excellency with the greatest respect Ths. Jefferson G. CLARK N. B. By my letters of the 24h of August youl be made acquainted with my late disappointment in my intended excursion up the Ouabash.



Page 467


CAPT. LERNOULT TO COL. BOLTON.

467

I have now a Detachment of about two hundred and fifty of French Volunteer Indians and a few Regulars on their march to attack a British Post at St. Josephs near Lake Michigan commanded by a Lieutenant and party where there is very considerable stores deposited for the purpose of employing Savages, the party is commanded by Capt. James Shelby there is no doubt of his success as their route is such that there is but little probability of the Enemy being apprised of them untill its too late, his order is to demolish the fortification and return with the stores &c. I am with respect &c G. C. N. B. Sergeant Chapman reports that when Mr Shelby endeavoured to raise his volunteers they said they had no shoes and therefore would not go to St. Joseph's. A. S. DE PEYSTER. Endorsed: Letter from Col. Clark 1779, 23 Sept. Copied Reed 24 Nov. [B 184-1, p 131] _ CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT Sept 25th 1779. DEAR COLONEL I send off the Angelica with 100 Bushels of Indian Corn and what Grease I could get, which with the 80 Bushels I send in the Gage, is pretty near one half I have in store. I enclose a letter I received yesterday from the Miamis. The person who sends me this is to be credited. As I cannot spare a Soldier now our numbers are reduced, I intend to send one James Girty to the Shawanese Towns to endeavour to raise a Party to reconoitre towards the Onias, and to communicate this news to all the Indians in our Interest-to harrass the Enemy should they advance farther. The Felicity sailed yesterday for Michilimackinac loaded with Provisions & Rum. I have communicated all news & Intelligence to the Major. I hope the Rangers (Capt Parke's Detach) and the Warriors from this place have reached you in time to be useful, as I have lost no time in sending them as soon as I learned the situation you were in. I will use my utmost endeavour to collect Corn & Grease in the Settlement & send you all can be spared. I have fill'd the Magazines in the new Fort, that we may not be taken unawares, should the Enemy advance this way, which they probably may, to burn & destroy the grain belonging to the Nations.



Page 468


468

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

I am in hopes some Troops will be sent up from below, or the Indians cannot hold out, those here often upbraid us for sitting still when they want assistance. I am informed by a Shawanese Indian that 30 Warriors are on their way here with Prisoners & Scalps. if they bring any news I will acquaint you by the Wyandot. I will not trouble you more at present, as you have much to attend to, but to wish you health & strength to get through. I am Dear Colonel with great Esteem Your faithful Servant [signed] R. B. LERNOULT P. 5. I Just received a Line from a Trader at St. Duski as follows. ST. DUSKI SIR Sept 10h 1779. I am informed (by Indians) that the Rebels have left Tuscarawa Fort & has given it up intirely. The reason of their doing so was that the Wyandots & Delawares desired them. likewise there were great bodies of the Rebels gone down the Ohio, and up the Alleghany River & that a body of 3000 had marched against the Shawanese. Sir If any news should happen here I expect in twenty days to deliver to you by word of mouth. I am Sir &c [signed] A Mc CORMICK Capt. Lernoult. [B 100, p 289] INDIAN SPEECH TO CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT. [Translation] Speech of the Chavenous to Capt. Lernoult Commandant of Detroit &c. &c. &c. 26th Sept. 1779. Acouestchichika by four branches. Warriors & my brothers listen to what I have to say in this place. My father, give attention if you please, to what I say to you the chiefs & warriors. It is now nearly two years since our nation was first called your children being told, I will render you happy, abandon the chase & do not hesitate to carry out the King's orders. Here is a hatchet on his behalf against the Virginians serve with courage & your happiness & that of your children will follow your obedience.



Page 469


INDIAN SPEECH TO CAPT. LERNOULT.

469

Whenever we chiefs knew your intentions we put our warriors in the field who have not ceased to strike the enemies, informing them however of the danger to which we were exposed by his (the enemies) nearness, reminding you that you had reassured us saying I know that the nearness of the Virginians will annoy you; but reassure yourselves only observe their march & if they attempt to cross the Ohio let me know, & I will immediately come to your help with the nations which surround me-These are your own words-I am deputed to come & take you by the hand & lead you to the enemies who threaten us we have seen that they have a good fort and in consequence you ought to be ready to march with us, make your intrenchments & assemble some children (enfants) & when we are all together we will go to meet them, we would let you see the bravery of our young men & the good will which we all have to fight for you and with you. We do not prescribe to you what you should say to the other nations our brothers you know better than we, the reasons which would engage them to Join you for our succorer. All the warriors who accompany me wait your answer to go quickly & carry it to our villages; as for me I wait the end of your preparations to follow you where ever you are called. With four strings My father, in giving you this token of the fidelity of your children in executing your orders deign to promise us abundance for. all our needs we need all things & you have no regard for what we ask; we would like to be well clothed & to use the same food as you do & above all drink that liquor has been first drunk with our ancestors by the whites & which we ask to drink at discretion. With a bunch of Tobacco. When God gave us this land as our share, he gave us at the same time this happy plant, which is called tobacco, it furnishes man with good ideas. That is why my father I ask you to use it so that your thoughts will be conformable to ours. 29h Sept. 1779. Answer to the Chauvrons. My children, Chauvrons, I have heard your words & used your tobacco now I will tell you my ideas & my resolutions. Chiefs and warriors, I know what zeal you have shown as your fathers children, I congratulate you on your good will to the advice & counsels of your brothers the Five Nations. You say that Governor Hamilton has promised to go to your assistance he can & will go where the need exists, as for me I look to the



Page 470


470

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

safety as much as necessary, that is why I continue to build the fort which I have begun. We will also work to keep the communication free. For this purpose I have sent troops to which your brothers, my children, are Joined; they know as well as I do that the source of their wants being closed they would find themselves without help & exposed to the vengence of the enemy. You think the nations here in idleness, you deceive yourselves, they never cease to be in the field & actually as you speak there is nothing but women in the village. Your father the general busy with the care of his children, great expenses of the fort, vessels & troops supplies your wants. You should feel that in going away you have nothing to fear from the Virginians & you may rest assured that in case of their invasions we will defend you. So my children believe that I will do all in my power and that I & the troops will help you. I will go where you call me & will not cease to watch and provide for your wants & those of your families, I will furnish as much as I can for your necessities & a little of that drink you desire so much. [B 100, p 276] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON. QUEBEC 28th September SIR 1779. As your Excellency may not have had an opportunity of being informed of all the circumstances relative to the affair at the Cedars in 1776, so falsely represented by the Congress, in their resolves upon it, I take this occasion to transmit to you a Pamphlet containing a circumstant'al, and attested account of the whole transaction, it is so strong a testimony of the perfidy of the Enemy we have to deal with, that they have no doubt suppressed it. It may be serviceable in negotiating the Exchange of Prisoners. Your Excellency will observe in the Pamphlet an order of Sir Guy Carleton's, prohibiting all intercourse whether by Flags of Truce, or otherwise, with the Rebels. I have hitherto declined exchanging Prisoners, but I believe necessity will oblige me to it, having been pressed by Major Butler to effect an exchange of his Wife & Family for Prisoners at Niagara, and in the hands of the Indians, but have otherwise



Page 471


LT. COL. BOLTON TO GEN. HALDIMAND. i

471

deviated from the above mentioned order, not finding that conduct adopted by the Southern army.

Sir Henry Clinton Endorsed: Copy. 1779 To Sir Henry Clinton at [B 147, p 103 or 111]

I have the honor to be &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND.

28th Sept.

LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO SIR JOHN JOHNSON. NIAGARA Oct. 3rd 1779

SIR

It will not admit of a doubt but the Upper Posts must be reinforced, particularly Niagara and Detroit. I have the Honor to be with great Esteem. Sir Your most obedient most Humble Servant' MASON BOLTON Sir John Johnson Bart. [B 100, p 294]

LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA May 31st 1779.

SIR

Captain Brehm sailed from Fort Erie the first fair wind that offered after the arrival of the Angelica, with the Detachment of the 47h & must have had a fine passage to Detroit. I send you a plan of Detroit & also copies of Letters I received from Capt Lernoult & Major Butler with answers to the remarks on the Naval accounts & a return of the Merchandize transported over the Lakes.

Believe me &c. &c. &c. MASON BOLTON

His Excellency General Haldimand [B 100, p 16Q]

%



Page 472


472

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAMD TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC SIR 6th Oct 1779. It will be necessary to compleat the Garrison at Michilimackinac to two companies, it will this year be too late, but the number of men for that purpose will assist in Garrisoning Detroit until they can conveniently be forwarded, at which time a Captain must be sent to commnand at Michilimackinac. I am with great regard &c. Lieut Col. Bolton. [signed] FRED HALDIMAND [B 104, p 73] THOMAS BENTLEY TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. SIR When I had the honor to wait on Your Excellency last winter you were pleased to inform me that you had no objection to my returning to my family provided I could get Lt. Gov. Hamilton's consent. News of that gentleman's misfortune soon after rendering my application to him out of the question I wrote to Major De Peyster on the subject whose answer Mr Charles Grant would communicate to you I which I should hope wou'd be sufficient to obtain your permission. I since did myself the honor to write you by the Hon'b Edward Harrison Esq. to which I would request your attention for a moment& that you would reflect on the cruelty of my situation and the distresses it is attended with which would affect the most obdurate heart. Untried and unconvicted to be detained upwards of two years is hard beyond all description. For God's sake, Sir, listen to what I wrote you by Mr. Harrison and permit me (on some footing or other) to return to my family and affairs which are tearing to pieces by pretended friends to government who were my principal accusers to Lt. Gov. Hamilton and having changed sides are become my Judges in favor of the Americans I mean Mr. Cerr6 in particular for one who now acts at the Illinois as Judge and has issued out most unheard of and unjust sentences against those concerned for me there, by which means my property has already been considerably affected. This, Sir permit me to tell you, is a fact and no hearsay.



Page 473


GEN. HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. MACLEAN.

473

Let me beg that you will suffer your breast to be touched with Humanity at my misfortunes and that you will permit me to return by the speediest method possible if you do not wish to entail misery with all its horrors upon me all the rest of my life. Permit me to hope for an answer by return of the Post which will ever be acknowledged as an obligation conferr'd on your Excellency's most obedient & very hble Servt. Montreal Oct 14, 1779 T. BENTLEY Endorsed: From Mr. Bentley 14h Oct 1779. Reed 16h. Montreal His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Esq. Governor of the province of Quebec General and Commander in Chief of His Majesty's Forces in the said Province &c. &c &c. Quebec [B 185-1, p 42J GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. ALLEN MACLEAN. QUEBEC 18h October 1779. SIR I cannot resist the opportunity of a Return Express to Halifax to express to you the Pleasure conveyed to me by the account of the signal defeat given to the Rebel Armament by which you were invested at Penobscot, and to offer you my most sincere congratulations upon that happy event. The judgment & activity you must have exercised in strengthening yourself in so short a time, with so small a number of men, & by so long opposing the attempts of so very superior a Force until the arrival of the succours, which from the measures you took could not fail of appearing proofs of those abilities the Military World allow you to possess, and of the great merit you are in this particular instance so Justly entitled to. It would have given me infinite pleasure to have been able to have afforded you assistance by making a diversion in your favour; but the necessary attention to the advances of the Rebels toward Niagara & Detroit, the scarcity of Provisions & the great distance and almost unsurmountable difficulties in the way to you thro' the woods, rendered it impossible for me to undertake anything. I however some time ago sent a scout of white men & Indians out by the Chaudiere & Kenebec Rivers. I have not heard how far they have penetrated, their return being prevented by the lowness of the waters. I am Sir &c B. Genl. Maclean [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Endorsed Copy 79 To B. G. Maclean at 18h Oct [B 150, p 32] 60



Page 474


474

I HALDIM.AND PAPERS.

LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA Oct 21st 1779. SIR I enclose Your Excellency some Letters & Papers which I have lately received from Captain Lernoult, they will inform you of the disagreeable situation that 'Govr Hamilton & his Friends are in at Williamsbourg, however I still hope the Enemy will not carry matters so far as to put their threats into execution, the 11th Instant Sir John Johnson with the Troops he brought here, the Light Company of the 34h Regt. Rangers & the principal Indian Chiefs embarked on board the Haldimand Seneca & Caldwell and sail'd in the evening for Oswego. I am with the greatest respect Sir Your Excellency's His Excelly most obedt Hum Seryt. Genl. Haldimand MASON BOLTON [B 100, p 298] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN. QUEBEC 26h May 79. BRIGADR GENERAL MACLEAN SIR, I am sorry to open our correspondence by water for the season, with the disagreeable account that Lt. Gov. Hamilton of Detroit, who set out in October last (without any orders or Instructions from me, or any knowledge of his intentions till it was too late to stop him) to recover the Post of St. Vincennes. In less than two months after his arrival there was with all his Party taken prisoner by a Colonel Clarke at the head of some Virginians, who had before taken possession of the Illinois; This is the more unfortunate that a Party of Virginians & Pennsylvanians, under the Command of a Brigadier MacIntosh, penetrated last fall within three days march of Sandusky, where they fortified themselves, having brought Artillery for that purpose, it is reported they mean this spring to take Post upon Riviere au Beuf, which if true would look as if they intended to cut off Detroit, above and below & to deprive great Britain of all trade with the Upper Country. In this situation I find it extremely difficult from the scarcity pre

Page 475


GEN. HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. MACLEtAN.

475

vailing here, two victuallers having missed their passage, to forward such a quantity of salt Provisions as may enable me to push on Reinforcements, tho' we can ill spare them, to repel the attacks of the Rebels upon that Quarter. Repeated advices during the winter, inform'd me of great preparations carrying on at Albany & Stillwater to attack this Province in force during the summer, but I have discovered from more authentick intelligence, that accounts were much exagerated, however, when I consider the great importance of Canada in the present contest, the disposition of the Inhabitants & the composition of the Troops I have for its defence for the Summer, unless a considerable reinforcement arrives soon, or the army to the Southward is enabled to act with vigor, so as to operate a Powerfull Diversion on that side. The treaty of the Colonies in Rebellion with France & the appearance of one of its fleets upon the American Coast have operated a very powerful change upon the weak & ignorant people of this country where the many adherents to the cause of Rebellion have spread amongst us D'Estaing's Proclamation dated Boston October 28: 1778 & also a Letter from the Marquis de la Fayette of the 18h Decemr to the Canadian Savages, adds lo our difficulties. I hope you have been able to push on the people of the Nancy that took refuge in your province last Fall, & that you will persuade the Commander of His Majesty's Navy in your Post to grant them a convoy, and look after what comes into the Gulph, untill they are pleased to send some Naval force from Britain, of which at present we are very bare. You will please to convey to me, with all possible Diligence every Intelligence you Judge useful to our present situation, which you will however keep within your own Breast, as far as it can be done con, sistent with the Public Service. I am &c [signed] F. H. P. S. May 29h I have Just received account from Niagara of the 15h May, where all is well, but no Intelligence from Detroit, since 26h March, this gives me some uneasiness, altho' the commanding officer at Niagara seems not to think Detroit in any immediate danger. Michilimackinac is rather more exposed to an attack from the party who surprised St. Vincennes, as I am apprehensive they have taken provisions & Presents which will very much assist them'in such an enterprize. May 31st. Yesterday I received an Express from Michilimackinac dated 13h Inst. the post was then all well, but the Rebels were trying



Page 476


476

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

every means by inventing Lies, making great Promises &c to-debauch the Indian Nations from their allegiance to the King, but I hope they are not likely to succeed in any Dangerous Degree. 8 o'clock P. M. I have this afternoon received an Express from Detroit dated llh May, where a Reinforcement of 100 men with provisions &c were arrived, which had already had a very good effect, this express passed by Niagara, on the 20h when the Troops were in good health & high spirits, but the Virginians assisted by the Canadians, continued indefatigible in exerting their endeavours to Debauch the Savages. F.H. Endorsed: 1779. To Brigadier General Mac Lean at Halifax sent by Mr. Louis Foy the 31st May. [B 150, p 6] REGULATIONS FOR SURGEONS AT DETROIT. QUEBEC Nov' 1st 1779. Regulations respecting Surgeons for the Upper Posts, particularly the Naval Departments Detroit. Mr. Anthony as Hospital Mate will take care of the Garrison and Army Artificers. Mr. Menzies will take care of every part of the Naval Dept. and report to the Senior Officer on the Spot, who must make such report to the Commanding officer as the service requires. The Commanding Officer to appoint a proper Hospital, or give up a part of the garrison one for the Navy. Mr. Menzies must when ordered go on board any of the vessels on the Lake, and during his absence the Commanding officer may appoint a Surgeon to do his duty who shall be paid for this extra duty. [B 197, p 60] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO MAJOR DUNBAR. QUEBEC 8th Nov. 1779. SIR I have the favor of your letter of the 4th Inst. covering a letter from a French Prisoner to Brigadier General Maclean, & expressing the Brigadier's request to know his Excellency the Commander in 4Chief's determination relative to the Disposal of the Five Prisoners



Page 477


GEN. HALDIMAND TO COL. BOLTON.

477

from Detroit. In answer to which I am commanded to signify His Excellency's approbation of Brig. Maclean's having allowed the said Prisoners a separate room, where they are to remain until such time as another be provided for them, for which orders will soon be given. The Frenchman will likewise be removed. His Excellency does not think proper to release him upon Parole, but if conveniency will admit of it, He has no objection that he should have liberty of walking about in the Barrack yard, Provisions he is of course supplied with, & if he is in want of clothes, such as are necessary to comfort shall be provided for him. I am Sir &ca Major Dunbar [signed] ROBERT MATHEWS Endorsed: To Major Dunbar at Montreal 8h Nov. 79. [B 61, p 16] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC 11th November 1779. SIR By Mr. Glemire I have received your letters of the 21st & 24th past covering Letters & Papers from Capt Lernoult. I am much concerned to find by them that Mr. Hamilton & the gentleman with him are so unhappily circumstanced. Yet I cannot think the Rebels will take their Lives whilst so many of their people are in our power. Sir John Johnson arrived with the remainder of his Detachment at Carleton Island the 28th past, that part of it which I returned to Niagara would have informed you of Sir John's disappointment in his purpose of cutting off the Oneidas. I fear it will not be in the power of the few Indians who are so inclined to effect any thing of themselves against them, and that they will continue to poison the minds of the five nations as long as they are suffered to exhist. I would by all means have the three Oneidas who were sent Prisoners to Niagara by Sir John Johnson kept in secure confinement as Hostages for the conduct of their Nation and to answer with their Lives for any that may be taken of the Five Nations by their means and Colonel Johnson would do well to make this,declaration as public as possible. I hope you have succeeded in your endeavours to send down a good many of the Indian women & children. The convallescent men of the 8h Regiment & Rangers shall be taken care of & sent back in the Spring. The Distribution of Provisions you have before this time received. Your observation that there are resources at Detroit which



Page 478


478

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

you have not, is very just & I hope has induced you to detain as much of the supply for that Post as you thought could be spared. I shall wait with anxiety io hear how you have passed the winter and on this account am pleased that your garrison is no stronger convinced that it is sufficient against any attempt that can be made in the course of the winter and from the means that have been taken to forward provisions as soon as the River becomes navigable I shall be enabled to send you a reinforcement early in the Spring in every exigency I have already acquainted you that I should reinforce you, but I find it more necessary to extend my views in this particular to Detroit and that accordingly it will be requisite to strengthen that Post with as many men as you can possibly spare from Niagara, after your reinforcement is arrived, as I have informed Mr. Hamilton should be done & I must therefore request you will observe & I leave it to you to draw for your own assistance if your occasion becomes pressing from the detachment under Captain Aubrey, all above what will be absolutely necessary for the defence of the new work erecting on the Island now called Carleton Island, a copy of the order to Capt. Aubrey upon that occasion is herewith enclosed. There are complaints that the contractor at your carrying place does not provide sufficient means of transporting the goods which arrive there, one principal reason which induced me to make 'the contract was to give satisfaction to the merchants, he must therefore at any rate provide everything requisite for that purpose, and to prevent their murmers on that subject in future. I am informed that a great quantity of goods lie at the carrying places at Niagara guarded only by a small party & observing the eagerness of the merchants to send such quantities up, I am apprehensive of this becoming a Bait to tempt the Rebels, and to draw them upon your Post, for which reason I must desire, that you detach a company to each of these places, with the most particular orders, and if possible that a Block House with some enclosures of Picketting or other easier effected work, be erected to cover the ground whereon the goods lye, and to serve the party as a defence in case of sudden attempts, & it will be necessary that you have Indians employed constantly on scouts to give you early intelligence of the approach of the Enemy in order the better to enable you to make these Detachments Capt. Aubrey is now directed to send you your Light Infantry com-,pany immediately. I am &c [signed] F. H.



Page 479


LT. COL. BOLTON TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

479

P. S. A Fleet is just arrived from England with a reinforcement of two thousand men, and I expect to be still further strengthened before the end of the year. [B 96-2, p 134] __ LIEUT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. S INIAGARA Novr. 15h 1779 SIR I have very little news from Detroit more than every thing seems to be in a state of Tranquility. Many of the Rangers are sick & the Corps in general are in great distress for want of cloathing (owing to their repeated losses in the Indian Expedition) This disagreeable circumstance and your Excellency's final orders in regard to the distribution of the Troops, not being as yet arrived, has induced me to postpone sending fifty of them to Detroit untill the Spring, when that number shall be ready to embark on board the first vessel that arrives. Except four Batteaux Loads all the Merchandize for Detroit and Michilimackinac has been forwarded. Joseph has Just returned from the Three Rivers & has brought me a letter that an Indian gave him, a copy of which I have enclosed.

I am Sir, with great respect Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servant MASON BOLTON

His Excellency Genl. Haldimand, [B 100, p 313J

DISTRIBUTION OF TROOPS IN THE UPPER COUNTRY Detroit Kings Regmt 3 Companies Complete 168 ) Part of do. to be sent in Spring to Compleat 2 Companies at Michilimakinac 50 47h Regmt. 125 Major Butler's Rangers 50 "393

Kings Regmt 2 [B 100, p 316]

Michilimackinac Companies complete

62



Page 480


480

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

ALEX GRANT TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT Nov. 22nd SIR, 1779. I acknowledge the honour of receiving your letter, regarding the laying up of the two armed Vessels, which shall be done agreeable" to Capt. Schank's directions. The 8h Instant the gage ran on shore at Point au Pine, on the north side of Lake Erie, by mere good luck having favourable weather with the assistance of the Troops on Board, she got off with little or no damage except the loss of six guns. This accident I believe was owing to the badness of her compasses, of which this Department is destitute of good ones, though often remonstrated in the strongest manner to Captain Shanks-No Stores, Seamen Carpenters or Tools is arrived this year, except what men was sent in the Spring from Lake Ontario, & a few ill assorted Stores Capt Shanks sent up then, with a miserable assortment of Slops, principally consisting of Blankets & common Canadian Mockisons, the Seamen without Pay or Credit, till Capt Shanks of his Deputy arrives next June. I have orders from Capt Shanks to carry on no work with the Artificers here without his positive Instructions, of which there is no appearance yet-But I shall take care nothing shall be delay'd for the good of His Majesty's Service with the concurrence of Major De Peyster. I have t/he honor to be &c. Lieut Colonel [signed] ALEX GRANT Bolton [B 100, p 324] R. MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. ALLEN MACLEAN. QUEBEC 22 November 1779. SIR I have the honor of your letter enclosing one from Mr. Bentley to His Excellency Genl. Haldimand, both which I have laid before him and have His Excellency's commands to signify to you his desire that you make every possible inquiry to discover if any other than St. Martin and whom were privy to Mr. Bentley's escape, where St Martin resides & what employment he has under government His Excellency concludes that you have sent to Yamaska in order to learn something of him and is surprised that he should have been so long gone without



Page 481


COI. JOHN CAMPBELL TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

481

being reported by you, having yourself proposed that he should be narrowly watched which was approv'd by His Excellency and you mentioned in a late letter your having employed a trusty person to fulfil that charge. The inconveniences attending people who are indiscriminately called Loyalists being dispersed about the country are very obvious, but the difficulty of accommodating them with quarters and provisions collectively are unfortunately fully as much so. I am Sir &c [signed] R. MATHEWS Endorsed; Brigadier General Maclean-Montreal 22 Nov. 1779.. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. MONTREAL 23rd Dec 1779. SIR I have to inform your Excellency that the Indian who conducted Mr.'Bentley out of the Province is returned he is the same who went to the Oneida Castle last summer with the Indian of that nation who escaped being killed at Caughniwage, though he has always been a very bad man, yet in this affair, I cannot help thinking that he did no more than most Indians would have done. He was the tool to others as will appear to you Sir in the declarations which will be transmitted to you this day by Brigadier Mac Lean. The decampment of the Frere Recollet from Caughniwage makes a great noise in that village as you will see by the enclosed Letter which I recd last night though I give no credit to certain accusations therein contained yet I will to obviate all doubts forward Lieut Houghton with some Chiefs to Quebec whenever the service he is now employed upon shall be over which I think will be to-morrow night. I have the honor to be with due Respect Sir Your Excellency's most obt. & hble Servt JOHN CAMPBELL Endorsed:-From Lt. Col. Campbell 23rd Dec 1779 reed 25th. [B 185-1,,p 49] 61



Page 482


482

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

ROBERT MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN. BRIGADR. MACLEAN QUEBEC SIR 29h November 1779. I have the honor of your letter of the 25h Instant respecting Mr. Bentley's escape, I have laid it before His Excellency General Haldimand, and have it in Command to signify his desire that you will continue your endeavours to make further Discoveries in regard to Mr. Bentley's connections, and if it would appear that they have been privy to his going off. In answer to that Paragraph of your letter concerning furnishing the families of the officers belonging to the Loyalists who remain at Montreal, with Firewood and Provisions, His Excellency desires I would acquaint you that he has given directions that all those families may be collected at, & in the neighbourhood of St. Ours, except such as must from unavoidable circumstances remain at Montreal, the names of whom and the allowances of the above articles to be granted them, will be communicated to you. In the mean time, His Excellency does not disapprove of your relieving their necessities, but recommends to you the greatest Economy that can be observed, Consistently with their wants. You are perfectly right in your observations of my mistake concerning Mr. Bentley, it was entirely my own, having referred to Capt. Robinsons Letter upon that subject as if from you. I am &c [signed] ROBERT MATHEWS Endorsed:-1779. To B. G. Maclean of the 29h November [B 185-1, p 45]



Page 483


REMAIN OF ORDNANCE AND STORES AT UPPER POSTS. 483 GENERAL REMAIN OF ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE STORES AT THE UPPER POSTS. Last Dates Sept. Octo. & Nov. 1779 Detroit Mich. 24 Sept 1779 30 Sep 1779 S. R. U. S. R. U. ron Traveig Carriages ~---------------------------- ------ --- ------ ------ with elevating screws -- -- -- -- -- ----- ------ - --- -- - --- -- 12 Prs L.ight ------[---------- 1 --- ------------ Brass 6" Light j---------------------- 3------ ------ 2------- Ordn nce on tanith gTr cksa2rrigs. -------------- 1 --- ------ ------ Moudnaned on standingcar2riaes-------------t - - - - Amu~setts------------------------------------ ------ ------ ------ 4------- 3 Prs on grass hop. carrg.------------------------- 2 --- ------------ tL4 2-5 Inch -------------------------------------- 4 --------- 1------- Iron Ordnance (18 Pr---- -------------------------------------------- 1 --- ------------ Mounted on 9 Long-------------------------------- T-------- 2 --- ------------ Standing car-.]6 Long-------------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ 2------- riages wt 1eOShort ---------------------------------------- 5---- 1 --- ------ Trucksebeds 4----------------------------------------------- 5--------2....... & Coins L4 2-5 Inch Mortar --------------------------1---- ---------- ------ Iron Ordnance I Pr-------------------------------------------------- 4------------ ------ ------ --- Not mounted I%------------------------------------------- 1 --- ------------ 1r2 Pr Light -------------------------------- 4 --- ------------ I~I iaide Ammunition 0.j6 Lightj -------------------------------o6 ------ ------4 LFitted to Pack Saddles ------------------------ 8--- ------ ------ [Ch at -------------------------------- 5 ------------ ------ ------ --- Aprons ofLead--------------------------- -------------------- 21------ ------- 18 ---- g Arms & [Wall Pieces---------------------------------- ------ ------ ------2.........--- Accoutre- - Musquets English------------------------------ 37 83 --- ------ ments I Bayonets Mnequet ------------------------- 18--- s --------- ------ Barrels Budge Copper Hooped ---------------------------------- 2......................------ do Hazel do -------------------------ft--------1- ------------------...--- --- -Blocks with ~ Treble -------------------------------- t ------ 1.................... Brass Shearsi Double -------------------------------ft---------- 1.......................- ---- Bucket Loather----------ft------------ ------------- 4-------4 ----- ------ ------ ------ Brushes paint---------------------------------------ft-----------6............ Beam Iron large with scale. ------------------------------------ 1 ----- 1 --- Bottle stone for oil-_----------------------ft-_------------------- 1------- Buck Shot lbs--------------------------------- -_------------ 25.......................-- ----.Ball Miusqt. Eng. Tons Cwt. Qrs lbs----------------------------- 0:9:0:0-------- 0.9:2:91........---





Page 484


484 HA-LDIMAND PAPERS. GENERAL REMAIN OF ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE STORES AT THE UPPER POSTS. Last dates Sept. Octo. & Nov.-Continued.

Detroit Mich. 24 Sept 1779 30 Sep 1779 S. It. U. S. R. U.

Ball Cartridges Musquet ----------------------- 11,000 ----I---.--- ---- -- do Carbine ------------------------------------------------ 100 ----------- ----------------- Boxes for Musquet cartridges ------ --- ------ ------------------------- 9 to hold 1000 each------------- Chalk lbs------------------------------------------------- I------ ---1--- ------ ------ ------- Cart sling compleat---------------------------------------- I------ ---1--- ------ ------ ------- Engines Fire---------------------------------------- I------ ------ --------1---- ------ SMusquet,----------------------------------- ------ ------ ---*--- 5,156 ----------- Flints Carbine -------------------------------------- 1700------ ------ 780 ----------- Formeras 5Mtisqnet------------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ 4----------- Carbine Carbine ------------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ 2----------- Funnels For filling Mnaqt. cartridges ----------------- 8......................--- ---- Flasks Tin for priming with powder ----------------------------- 1----------- ----------------- Flags Union -------------------------------------------------- 1------ ------ 1------- 61 St. George ----------------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ --1---- ------ Glua lbs-------------------------------------------------- 8------ ---3--- ------ ------ ------- Grease Firkins lbs--------------------------------------------- 7:0------ ------ 0:2 ----- ------ Gs Large ----------------------------------------- 1------------ ------ ------ --- Gins ~Small-------------------------------------------1...................... ----- rTraversing------&--------------------------------6 2------ ------..... ICommon ---------------.------------------ 24 ------ ------ 10 ----------- Hand Spikes- Gin ------------------------------------------- 4------------ ------ ------ --- iCrow Levers ------------------------------------ 5-------------; Hand screws -------------------------------------------------- 1------------ ------ ------ --- HidesTatnad----------------------------------------------6---------- 1----- ------ 11 Horne Powder-------------------------------------------4------------4------ ------ 42 Hammers claw ------------------------------------------------ 6------------ ------ ------ --- Mens12 to asett sets---------------------------- 2------ ------ ------ 2.--- Harness 4 Thlll 0-rse ---- ----------------------------------8 ---------- ------ I----1 -- -Trace --------------s--------------- 3 ------ ------------ 2 - Iron~ Barr )l 8---------------------------------- 790 ------------ ------ ------ --- I.Bushel )---------------200......................-- ---- Wihok--------------------------6-------- 7----4---------6 Linstock-- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - Lis (cs Without do--------------------------5----------------------5 rmuscovey ----------------------------------- z-----2- ------- I------ --------- Lanthorns J~Tin--------------------------------------- I------ ---1--- ------ ------ ------- '.Dark-------------------------------1-----------------------I





Page 485


REMAINi OF ORDNANCE AND STORES AT UPPER POSTS. 485 G~ENERAL REMAIN OF ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE STORES AT THE UPPER POSTS. Last dates Sept. Octo. & Novr. 1779. -Continued. Detroit Mich. 24 Sep 1779 30 Sep 1779 S. R. U: S. R. U. (Stock.----------------------------------------- 3------------------------- Looks~ Pad ------------------------------------------ 15 --- ------ ------ Ladders step ------------------------------------------------ 4 --- ------ ------ '18Pr ------------------------------------------ 1------------------ S I12 - -2-- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -----------------------------------------------1 ------ ------ ----------------- 1 C 0 6 ---------------------------------------------- ----S-------- ------ ------ ------ 1. 4---------------------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ I LS Pr grasshopper -------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 2 ------ ------ --2 f I4 ---------------------------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ 2 ------------------------------------------- 2------ --------- ------ Match Slow C. Qr. lb------------------------------------------ 0:1:0.---------0:0:20 Marline Tand Skeins ------------------------------------------- 4 --- ------------ Moulds for casting Mnusqt Ball -------------------;-----1------1 --- --- ------ Poles for carrying gunts----------------------------------------- 4------------ ------ ------ --- Pounches for vents----------------------------------------------- 9-------- ------2 ---- ---- Paper Musqt. Cast. Reams. Qrs-------------------------------- 1:10 ----- ------ 5:10 Prickers------------------ L---------------------; ---------1------------11--- - ------- Drag Ropes {6 Pr Light---------------------------------------- 6----------- 2------2........ 13 Grasshopper' ---------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ Rope ~Slings for Guns.---------------------------S----------3----------------- LIGin Tackle-fals ------------------------------- 1--------------w--- Searchers with reliefs 8 Prongs ----------------------------------1 -- - -- ------ ------ do 4 Prongs---------------------------------- ------ ------ ------1 - --- Saddles pack for Grasshoppers---------------------------------- 4------------ --------- ------ ris8Pr ---------------------------------------- 1------------ ------ ------ --- Spunges with 12--------------------------------------------- 2------------ ------ ------ --- Staves Ramr 9 --------------------*------------------------- 2 --- ------------ Heads 6---------1-------------------- 9......................-- ---- Bags 4------------------------------------------------- 10 --- --------- L3SPr Grasshoppers.------------------------------ 2 --- ------------ Sponges WithF Staves RamrI l4 2-5 Inch -------------------------------------- 6 --- ------------ Heads&





Page 486


486 HALDIMAND PAPERS. GENERAL REMAIN OIF ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE STORES AT THE UPPER POSTS,. Last dates Sept. Octo. & Nomr 1779.-Continued. Detroit Mich 24 Sep 1779 30 Sep 1779 S. R. U. S. R. U. Steel Spikes for nailing up vents -------------------------------- 9------ ------ 10------- Spikes Marline ------------------------------------------------ 2------------------ Sheep Skins doz odd.------------------------------------------ 0:10 ----- ------ 0:5------- St~eel C. Qr.lb------------------------------------------------- 1-.0.% ------ 4-------- Saws whip----------------------------------------------------- 2----------- ----------------- Saws Tennant ------------------------------------------------- 1 --- ------------- Scythes Mounted----------------------------------------------- 2 --- -----------Ido not Mounted------------------------------------- ------- ------ I------1------ ------- Scythe Stones ------------------------------------------------- 1 --- ------------ r12 Pr Lt. Traveig, Carriage----------------------- 1 --- ------ ----, IIron work for 3 Pr Grasshop----------------------2 -- --------- --- ------ Spr Iron Trucks for 3 Pr Standg Carrg--------1-------------------- 1 Linch Pins --------------------- ----------------- 5 ----------------- Washers --------------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ ~Spunge & Round Heads 6 Pr ------------------- -6.0 ------------ ------ ------ --- Tarpaulins 6 Pr.------------------------------------------------ 2----- ---------- ------ ------~ Tonpeons fild.2 Pr Light------------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ wit cllrs 6 Light-------------- ----- ---- 3--------3 ---- ------ ------ ------ t Grasshoppr ---------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ Tacks Sponge ---------------------------------------------- 50------ ------ 530------- Thread lbs for M. & (C. Cartridge--------------------------------- 3------ ------ 4------- r18 Pr------------------------------------------- 1------------ ----------------- Wad Hooks 12 --------------------------------------------- 2----------- ------ ------ --- with staves 9---------------------------------------------- 1------------ ------ ------ --- & Ramer 6------------------------------------- 5------ ------ ------- ------ ------ Heads 4------------------------------------------------- 1 --- ------------.3 Pr Grasshoppers ------------------------------ 2 --- ------------ Wires Priming ------------------------------------------------ 24 ------ ------4.........--- Weights cast Iron of 56 lbs each --------------------------------- 4 ------------------ La~boratory Stcores. Allum lbs.--------------------------------------------1--------- I--- --- ------ --- Brass Quadrants with cases -----------------------------.------ 1 I-- - --......--- --- --- do Scales with Beams pairs----------------------------------- 2------------ ------ ------ --- do Kettles-------------------------------------------------- L





Page 487


REMAIN OF ORDNANCE AND STORES AT UPPER POSTS. 487 GENERAL REMAIN OF ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE STORES AT THE UPPER POSTS. Last dates Sept. Octo. & Nomr 1779.-Continued. Detroit Mich 24 Sep 17 79 30 Sep 1779 S. R. U. S. R. U. 3Prs -~--------------------- 50 ---------- ------------- 425Inch Mortars.1 mt ------------------------ 200 --- ------ ------ Cartridges J 18) ------------------------------------------- 30 ------------ ------ ------ --- Flannel 121------ ------ ------ ------ ---------0----------- 1 --- ------------------- 7- --- -------- 9 -------J-------------------------------- 70-------24 ----- ------ ------ ------ Cartridge f9 Prs --------------------- 120 ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Paper B J----------------------------------------40 -------30 ------ Cartouches of Leather 6 Prs ------------------------------------------ 7------ ------ 4 --- --- Chepts Laboratory------------------------------------------ I------1- ---- ------ ------ ------ F'Spare Hoops--------------------------------- ------ 1-------------- Copper - Funnels---------------------------------------- 3------------ --- ------ LEalimg Boxes ---------------------------------- 1 --- ------------ 12-o-------- 1 ------------------ ---- ------- Copr - Ioz--------------------------------------1I--- ------ ------ ----------------------------------------1 -Powder Mesrs 2oz -----------------------------------1------------- -- ------ ------ 1loz ------------------------------------------ 1------------ ------ ------ --- % oz -----------------------------------1------- I--- ------ ------ C36oz---------------------------------- 1 ------------ ------ ------ --- Copper'Pow- [4 lbs to Y4 oz 1 set --------------------------1----- I--- ------ ------ der Measures Odd measures------------------------------- 3------------- ------ ------ ------ Fuses fixd 42-5 Inch------------------------------------------- 350------ ------ 210 --- - Flax lbs------------------------------------:------------------- 8 --- Flanilel yards ------------------------------------------------- 60----------- ------ ------ --- 'F Pr ---------------------------------------- 1---- ------ ------ Fumers 6------------------------------------- 1 ------ --- ------ Cartridges 14---------------------------------------------- 1 ---- -------------- [.Swevils ---------------------------------------- 2------------ ------ ------ --- r9Pr" ---------------------------------------------- --- ------ ------ Grape Shot j6 }Iron-------------------------------- ------ --------- - 6------- ------ ------ KnvsLbrtory--------------------------------w -------$------------ ------ ------ --- ------ KnitesLabs rtoy----------------------------------------------6-- ---- ----- ------ Kett les --Tin --------large-------k--------------------- --6------ ------ ------1--- --- dottl smTn alle------- ----&------------ M----------------------1 -----



Page 488


488 HALDTMAND PAPERS. GENERAL REMAIN OF ORDANCE & ORDANCE STORES AT THE UPPER POSTS. La~st dates Sept. Octo. & Nomr 1779.-Continued. Detroit Mich 24 Sep 1779 80 Sep 1779 S.- R. U. S. R. U. Mallets &BSetters 4 2-5 Inch ------------------------------------ -4:4......................- * ---- Match Quick lbs----------------------------------------------- 4------------------ ------ --- Powdor whole Barrels------------------------------------------- 25---- 2% 16%, --------- do half do ----------------------------------------- 3 --- ------------ Paper cannon Rms Qm ----------------------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ 2:0 ------- Portfires doz odd---------------------------------------------- 12:0 ---- --- ----------- Portfire Sticks -----------------I-------------------------------- 6------ ------ 5------- Pincers pairs -----------------------------------------1-------- ---------- ------ R~asps half round----------------------------------------------- 2-:----------------- F18Pr)----------------------------------------- 182 --- ------ ------ 112 ------------------------------------------ 400 --- ------ ------ 19 ----------------------------------- 207 --- ------ ------ Shot - -Round 6 ------------------------------------------ 420......................-- ---- L -------------J-------------- 400......................-- ---- rLead loose for Amusette ---------- ----------- --- 41 ---- --- 6 Pr Round fixt to wood --------------------------- ------ ------ ------8--- --- 1 O Pr Case do do ------------------------- 83 --------- ------- ------ 122 6 PrRound do do - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - -- - - - --- - - with flan~l cartridges &c -------------------------8320 ----- 88......... Shot - 3 Prs do do ---------------------------- 247......................--- 6 Pr Case do do --------------------------- 460 --------- 60 ------- 3 Pr do do do-------------------------- 100 ------------ ------ - ------- I9 Pr P- -------------------------------------- 34 --- ------ ------ t6PrJ ----------------------------------------- 84 --- ------ ------ -8 Inch Hawitzer ---------------------------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ 24 Baling boxes Tin------------------------------------1--------------------I F4 2-5 Inch Empty ------------------------------- 419 ----- ------- 129------- Shells ~4 2-5 Inch fixed---------------------------------84..............................--- LHand~grenades do ----------------------------- 184 ----........- ---- --- Scrapers for Shells 4 2-5 In -------------------------------------- 2 2 ------ --------- ------ Scissors pairs-------------------------------------------------- 6---- 9 --- ------ Shears large pairs.------------------------------- -------------- 2......................-- ---- Sieves Laron-------------------------------------------------- ------ 1.................. ---- f 6Pr } ------------------------------- ------ ---470 --- - Tubes Tin Iof sortsi -------------------------------------- 800 r----------------.



Page 489


THOMAS BENTLEY TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

49

GENERAL REMAIN OF ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE STORES AT THE UPPER POSTS. Last dates Sept. Octo. & Novr. 1779.-Continued. Detroit Mich. 24 Sept 1779 30 Sep 1779 S. R. U. S. R. U. Tables with Rubber for Mealing powder ----........................ 1....... Wood bottoms for grape shot-..-......--......--..--.....------------ 10............ Wine spirits of Quarts...-------.........................--.......-- - 1...... r28 Ib -----........................ -........ 4............ 14-----....---- --.... ----.......------------------------................-. 1.. 12 -----------------------------.------- 1 --- ------ ------ Weights Lead....................................... 3...- ----------------------------..---------------- 1..... -...-.. 2----.............................................. 1 1 ------------------------ - ----- --- --- - ------ -------........................-........................................... 1........ [B 151, p 198] THOMAS BENTLEY TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. SIR The many applications I have made to Your Excellency as well as your Predecessor with proposals to you both to give security in whatever manner you would require it in case you would permit me to return to my family and your repeated refusals to accede to my request left me no alternative what to do and will acquit me in the eyes of the world and I should even hope in your own Breast for absconding from the province. Ties of the dearest nature call loudly for my presence and oblige me if there is a possibility of doing it to Join my family let the event be what it will I beg leave to assure your Excellency that I do not go with any hostile intention against government but that on the contrary I will never bear arms against it, but will serve as far as lies in my power the friends of Great Britain in distress wheresoever I meet them and endeavour as far as can lay in my power to abate instead of increasing the horrors of war, as I scorn to be the means of retaliation upon the innocent. At the same time all who have been the cause of my misfortunes I am determined to pursue to the very utmost in order to obtain satisfaction. I beg you will think so favourably as possible of my leaving this, which nothing but the most absolute necessity could have compell'd me to; for it was not possible for me to remain here any longer without being supported which notwithstanding my 62



Page 490


490

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

repeated applications you refused I have been long a burthen to my friends who are but very few in this country where I am in a manner a stranger and 'tis not to be wonder'd at that I should find myself every day still more and more neglected, bereft as I am of making them the least recompence whatever. I am unhappy that I should be drove to this extremity, but necessity has no law and let the consequence be what it will it is a Justice I owe to myself and all my connections. I have the honour to be Your Excellency's most obedient & very hble Servt. T. BENTLEY Endorsed: Montreal November 1779 from Mr. Bentley Nov. 1779 Reed 20 To His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Esq. Governor of the province of Quebec General and Commander in Chief of His Majesty's forces in Canada at Quebec [B 185-1, p 47] BRIG. GEN. ALLEN MACLEAN TO CAPT. MATHEWS. SIR In consequence of the Commander in Chiefs orders to me- to be at every pains possible to discover such persons as might be concerned in the escape of Mr. Bently I have at last been able to get information that Joseph Howard, merchant at Montreal not only was privy to his going away but that he assisted him with the means of his escape, as you will clearly see by the enclosed declarations which I transmit for His Excellency's information. Colonel Campbell was the person who had undertaken to find out this affair if possible, He employ'd Lieut Houghton to whom the whole mint of the discovery is due Mr. Houghton could not come to town himself as he is employ' in making some progress in another plott of a much more interesting nature concerning the going off of the Recollet & I cannot help being of opinion that the Jesuits at the Sault St Louis knew of the Recollet going off I believe Colonel Campbell will write the General on this subject. The first sure intelligence I had of Mr. Howard being concerned in Mr. Bentley's escape was the evening of the 21st I immediately sent for Mr. Howard and told him I should immediately put him into the hands of the provost martial, if he did (sic) find bail for X~1500 for his appearance whenever the Commander in Chief should require it this request he complied with and has found two very sufficient sureties for the ~1500 Mr. Gray the Sherriff wrote the Bond. Mr. Howard wanted to know what he was acused of after the bond was executed I told him it was on account of his knowing of Mr.



Page 491


ROBERT MATHEWS TO GEN. MACLEAN.

491

Bentley's escape he told me if that was all he was perfectly at his ease for he was innocent I said no more but let the affair remain there untill I should receive His Excellency's commands which I hope you will transmit me soon. I should at any rate be under the necessity of taking Bail for Mr. Howard the kind of prison we have beeing already too full so that I hope to have His Excellency approbation on this part of my conduct; the two actors employed by Mr. Howard I have in custody for I did not think it by any means safe to have them at liberty least they might be tamper'd with and by the force of money bribed to contradict what they have said in the declarations now sent; the two men I am perfectly satisfied have declared truth and concealed nothing & I really do believe that Piere Amelote the Militia Officer did engage in the affair to gain the good graces of Mr. Howard to whom he owes 2600 Livres; I shall also hope that His Excellency will let me know what is to be done with him I am told he behaved very well in the 1775. I shall also request the favor that you will let me know how Capt. Betty is to be paid the c11 he expected in pay etc for the men now given over to Colonel Claus, for Joseph Brant or if anything will be allowed for his trouble the man is naked for want of clothes & otherwise in distress. I am with regard Sir Your most obedient & humble Servant Capt. Mathews ALLAN MACLEAN Endorsed: 1779 From B. G. Maclean 23d Dec. Reed 25. Concerning Mr. Bentley. [B 185-1, p 50] ROBERT MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN. Brig. General Maclean QUEBEC 27 Dec. 1779 SIR I am commanded by His Excellency General Haldimand to acquaint you that he has received your letter upon the subjects of Pere Berr6e and the memorial laid before him by Capt. John McDonald. The length of the latter makes it impossible for His Excellency to say anything upon it at present, but he desires I would acquaint you that proper attention shall be paid to its contents. His Excellency is much pleased by the assiduity you and Col. Campbell have shewn and your success in discovering those who were aiding in the escape of Mr. Bentley; and approves of the steps you have hitherto taken in the affair; He waits the arrival of Lieut Houghton to determine upon what shall be further done in it. With regard to the man who came into



Page 492


492

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

the Province with Mr. Bettie His Excellency does not wish that the least restraint should be laid upon the inclinations of any who leave the Colonies in the like Predicament. Those therefore who are desirous of remaining with Mr. Bettie may join Capt. McAlpin who will have directions to pay him the Expences attending the conducting the above men to the Province. I have the Honor etc copy [signed] ROBERT MATHEWS. Endorsed: To Brig. Genl. Maclean of the 27th Dec. 1779. [B 185-1, p 53] PETITION OF THE MERCHANTS OF DETROIT. To His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Captain General and Governor in Chief of the Province of Quebec General & Commander in Chief of His Majesty's Forces in said Province & the Frontiers thereof,&c. &c. &c. DETROIT 5h January 1780. The Petition of the Merchants of Detroit Humbly Sheweth. That Your Petitioners are desirous to represent to your Excellency the heavy losses which they have sustained since the Commencement of the present disturbances, in the transportation of Merchandize Liquors & peltries, on the communication and over the Lakes; and those Losses are really alarming, occasioned by delays, whereby the effects of your Petitioners have been exposed in such a manner, as to suffer very considerable and uncommon damage, and frequent robberies have been committed to the great detriment of trade and of your petitioners in particular. That the Particular occasion of the Losses which your Petitioners suffer, arises, in their opinion, from the prohibition of the Merchants having vessels of their own on the Lakes, and from the only'transportation permitted being in those belonging to Government, in which the preference being always given to King's 'Stores, the effects of the Merchants have always suffered from the necessity of th'eir being left behind exposed to a variety of accidents. That notes payable on demand having been always given for the Freight of Merchandize Liquors & Peltries in His Majesty's Vessels over the Lakes; before the payment of them should be demanded, your Petitioners thought proper to expose to your Excellency the uncommon Losses which they have suffered from. the causes express'd in this Petition, which losses almost to every Individual, but in general for certain, far exceed the amount of the Freight, supposing it should be



Page 493


PETITION OF THE MERCHANTS OF DETROIT.

493

rated as formerly: And praying Your Excellency's attention to their sufferings, they rely upon your Justice for an abatement therein as shall be esteemed adequate. That when your Excellency shall have attended to the foregoing prayer, your Petitioners farther request that while merchants are prohibited to have Vessels on the Lakes it may be ordered, for the security of Trade that the Commanders of His Majesty's Vessels shall give receipts, a practice hitherto not prevalent, for what they shall take on board of Merchantile property your petitioners esteeming it hard to be obliged to give vouchers for the payment of the Freight to the Commanders of the King's Vessels as they demanded, without any regular calculation of Barrel Bulk being either observed or established. And your Petitioners shall ever pray., ALEX MALCOMB ANDREWS & MELDRUM GEORGE McGREGOR F. WILLIAMS

JAMES RINKETT MAC LOVET & MACNAMARA THOMPSON & WILLIAMS RILDEY & BENNETT GREVERAT & VISGAR JAS: THOMPSON JNO. MACPHERSON ABBOT & FINCHLEY *CPGMON ALEXAM McWILLIAMS & CO. FORSYTH & DYCE JAMES COCHRAN WM. GRAETHESKY FOR JAMES STIRLING W. PARK ADHEMAR ST. MARTIN DAVID RANKEN THOMAS SMITH GEORGE LYONS. RICHD WRIGHT WILLIAM EDGAR F. PORTIERBENAN ISAAC WILLIAMS THOS: Fox

Endorsed No 1. Petition of the Merchants detroit 1780 5 January [B 217, p 112] * Name Illegible





Page 494


494

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

PETITION OF AGNES LA FORCE. To His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Esqr Captain General & Commander in Chief of His Majesties Forces of the same, and the Frontiers therof Vice Admiral &c. &c. &c. The humble Petition of Agness La Force, Widow of Ren6 La Force, late of Virginia, now a prisoner in Montreal. Your Petitioner most humbly shewethThat your Petitioner about three years past had the affliction Qf losing her said husband and was left a widow with five children: That her late husband together with his Family; and thirteen negro slaves had been obliged to remove two hundred milles into the inner uninhabited part of the country; to be out of the way of all Troubles; That her said husband allways had been a very loyal subject of His Majesty, on which account he was at different tim4s greatly distressed by havy fines, which were Layed on him, and at last obliged him to remove from his habitation where he and his Family lived at their ease. That on the 25th of June last past your Petitioner together with her five children and said thirteen negro slaves belonging to her the Petitioner were disturbed in their (as they thought) safe retirement by a party of Soldiers and Indians of His Majesty, and were by them taken Prisoners and carried to detroit where on their arrival said negro slaves were sold & disposed of without your Petitioners consent or receiving any Benefit thereby to her very great Detriment said slaves being her only resource she had and only property left in this country, and now your Petitioner and Family being in the utmost distress and considered her Farr advanced age not being able to do anything towards the support of her Fatherless children in a strange country destitute of everything she the Petitioner most humbly has resource to Your Excellency, and prays that your Excellency with a paternal eye will look on her very great affliction and take her case into consideration and give her said Petitioner Liberty to reclame the above mentioned her negro slaves or to order the purchasers of them to pay unto her your Petitioner whatever sum or sums of money as your Excellency will think in Justice and equity to be due to her the Petitioner as being the sole proprietor of said slaves: And your Petitioner as in Duty bound will ever pray AGNES LAFORCE Endorsed No. 1. Memorial delivered by Capt. Laforce the 6h of January -80 praying her slaves may be restored upon her being the sole proprietor. [B 217, p 116]



Page 495


ALEX. GRANT TO COL. BOLTON.

495

MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT 6th Jany. 1780. SIR The inclosed Intelligence received from Captain McKee I think necessary to forward without loss of time. All I have to say upon the subject is, that I wish it may be thought necessary & found convenient to order at least Two Companies of Light Troops here, to act in consort with the Indians who begin to be very importunate upon that Head and I fear will be disheartened should the Rebels act with the Coshocking Indians against them. I was favoured with your letter of the 22nd Nov by the Angelica, the weather setting in very severe on her arrival, obliged me to order the vessel to be laid up. Capt. Grant has communicated the several orders & Regulations to the Naval department. There was some difficulty to make them accept of the Ration as regulated at Niagara, but thro' the vigilance of that officer the matter was soon settled. Captain Grant is making up the accounts for Freight and waits your orders for the collecting it. He is doing every thing to the shipping that can be done to make the vessels last some years longer, I can assure nothing is wanting on his part. As I take it for granted that you will forward all material Intelligence to His Excellency, I shall not write to him upon the present occasion, I must therefore beg of you to urge the necessity of Light Troops to act with the Indians. Lieut Caldwell is not yet return'd from the Shawanese Towns, I dare say he will bring me certain accts of the Enemys motions. I am &c. &c. [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER. Lt. Col. Bolton [B 100, p 340] ALEX. GRANT TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT Jany 6h 1780. SIR I am sorry to find in the General's letter to you on the llh of October last, that there is many particulars in the management of the Naval Department on Lake Erie that is far from meeting his Excelly's approbation. My being the senior officer, must think my conduct to be in question. To make that matter clearer to the General and the World, I have solicited His Excellency for an Enquiry into it, which I



Page 496


496

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

request of you as commanding the whole to push as such, it will be as pleasing to you as to me, that these misrepresentations to the General be refuted. I am in hopes from what is done already, and in the course of the winter, our vessels will have such Repairs, that they will not want much more for three or four years at least. I have also the pleasure to inform you that the Field-ration is received by our Department since the 6th of December (the orders only arriving the night before) with as little murmur as could be expected. Lieut. Harrow with 11 men is at the Pinery, cutting Pine Timber 60 miles from hence. Lieut Graham with 30 men is at the River Rouge cutting Oak Timber & Plank 8 miles from thence. The rest of the Department over hauling rigging, Sails & guarding the Vessels here. The Sloops Felicity & Wyandot remain this winter at Michilimackinac so that everything goes on in the Naval Dept here as well as can be expected. The Naval Stores not arriving puts us still under the necessity of buying many articles here for present use. Unfortunately the beginning of last month, John McDonald a sailor was drowned, supposed to be in liquor, by falling off the Pier Head. I am Sir with due respect Lieut Col, Your most obedient Bolton humble Servant [signed] ALEX GRANT [B 100, p 339] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON. QUEBEC January 31st SIR, 1780. By Lieut Col Rogers who arrived here from Penobscot the 18th Inst, I have the Honor to Receive your Excellency's Letter of the 28th of July, with a duplicate of one dated the 9th September, and one of the same date in cypher, and I take the opportunity of an Express returning to Halifax (which I have detained a long time in hope of hearing from you) to return your Excellency my thanks for the Detail of Affairs in your interesting Quarter, which you have so obligingly given rhe. It is with the most sensible concern that I observe by your Letter, the unfortunate result of your endeavours to assist me, by your obliging complyance with my Request of a Reinforcement, & I beg leave to assure your Excellency that great as the



Page 497


GEN. HALDIMAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON.

497

disappointment must be to me, in my present situation, what I feel from it is much increased by the knowledge I now have of the inconveniency with which it was attended to you at that time, far from my Ideas, having been told by the Minister that you were to be considerably reinforced from Europe & that the Troops from the Islands were to return to you, but if that had not been the case, my conduct must inevitably have been the same, consistently with my Ideas of my duty, and the exigency of the Times, which are in no shape altered since my last Letter to you of the 1st Nov.-an extract of which I send you in cypher, least it should not have reached you-I am sorry to find the difficulty of communicating with you is so great, the original of your duplicate inclosing extracts of General Philips Letters, & those from the Rebel Papers I have not received and it is much o be feared that " the several messengers" said in your letter to have been sent to me mentioning a very interesting subject, have fallen into the Enemy's Hands--every Track & Channel of conveyance is now so watched that it is next to impossible for a messenger to get through, this makes correspondence by cypher the more necessary, & I shall answer one part of Your Excellency's Letter in that manner. I shall wait with the utmost anxiety to hear the event of the very important operation you were going to undertake when you last wrote. Should it prove successful, it will give a happy Turn to affairs thro' out the Continent, and this Province will materially feel the effect. I am sorry to acquaint your Excellency that very little is to be expected, in co-operation, from the Indians upon the Frontiers of Virginia, at least from those with whom we have any Intercourse. I mean the Western Nations who resort to Detroit and that neighbourhood. Indefatigible pains have been taken, & immense sums lavished to secure their affections, yet they are every day declining, particularly since the American Alliance with the french, to whom they have an old & very firm attachment, add to this, the misfortune of Mr. Hamilton, the disappointment of Reinforcements promised to them from year to year, the unwearied pains of the Spanish from the Mississippy to debauch them & the advances of the Enemy, on all sides, into their country which with all the pains that were taken last year, they never eould be brought vigorously to oppose & it is too plain that nothing but the example & continual Remonstrances of the Five Nations prevented their abandoning entirely. I have however the pleasure to acquaint your Excellency that since my last letter, I have had accounts from thence, informing me that a Scout conducted by White men, fell in with & totally defeated a Party of the Enemy on their way to fort Pit from New-Orleans 63



Page 498


498

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

where they had been sent to treat with & to sollicit supplies from the Spanish Governor--they succeeded & were returning with three Loaded Batteaux up the Ohio, when they were attacked. the Party consisted of about 60 men, commanded by a Colonel David Rogers who with about 40 men were killed upon the spot, and a Colonel Campbell with 5 more were taken Prisoners, some Letters & Papers were found upon them. I transmit for your Information copies of the most Interesting Upon hearing that the Enemy were collecting Troops, and calling together the Militia to Reinforce Mr. Washington, I sent out a strong Scout towards Albany to allarm that Frontier and Distress the country, it returned with some Scalps & 9 Prisoners & the officer who commanded reported that he had destroyed great quantities of Grain, Horses, Corws, & Stock of all kinds. Scouts are continually kept out for the same purposes, your Excellency will oblige me by informing if officers of corps raised by your authority as Commander in Chief, rank with those of Established Regiments or as Provincials, not having Received Instructions from Home, or found any here relative to these matters I am rather at a loss how to act--these gentlemen consider themselves intitled to rank with the Army, not having been * raised by an Act of this Province & their commissions not being signed by the Commander in Chief, as governor of a Province, but as the King's Representative, I have hitherto made them do duty as Provincials, as well for the good of the service as in justice to experienced Officers -but if the contrary has been found necessary in the Southern Army, I shall Readily adopt it, to avoid a possibility of the service suffering from jealousy or discontent, I likewise request to know if such Troops, Particularly Rangers on High Pay, are allowed contingence Men, Batt & Forage Money-& if any Promise has been made from which they are to expect half pay. Lieut Col. Rogers has been here some time but he has been so circumstanced as not to admit of my having much conversation with him-he says he has engaged 700 men for his Corps, but different Reports oblige me to fear that His is not a very faithful one. I have the Honor to be, with the greatest Esteem & Regard Your Excellency's most obedt & most humble servant (no signature) P. S. Since I closed my Letter a Scout which was sent for Intelligence is arrived & has brought News Papers wherein the Count



Page 499


LT. GOV. SINCLAIR TO SENIOR NAVAL OFFICER4

499

D'Estaing's miscarriage at Savannah seems sufficiently confirmed to admit of congratulating your Excellency on that event which, it is to be hoped, will not a little contribute to the success of your operations in Carolina-the result of which I shall wait with great anxiety to be informed of. Endorsed:-Copy of a Letter from His Excellency General Haldimand to Genl. Sir Henry Clinton. Quebec 31st January 1780 [B 147, p 136] LT. GOV. PATRICK SINCLAIR TO SENIOR NAVAL OFFICER. MIOHILIMACKINAC 15h Feb. SIR, 1780 I am to request your attention to the necessary Naval Stores, for repairs of vessels & Boats at this Place. It is also particularly incumbent upon me to prevent the absolute & indispensable necessity of having as a reserve against accidents-a sufficient quantity of materials for building & equipping a vessel of sixty Tons Burthen lodged at this Post. It remains with you to Judge how far the insular situation of the place where the Sloop Felicity wintered, with the advantage of excellent oak, Cedar & Mast Timber, and a good Harbour & wharf-may recommend it for the construction of all vessels upon this side of the Niagara carrying place-The Transportation of Materials would be over ballanced by the safety of this measure, and that & other difficulties would be removed by Industry. I beg that you will acknowledge the receipt of this letter as early as possible. I have the Honor &c [signed] PATT SINCLAIR Senior Naval Officer Lt. Gov. of Michilimackinac Detroit [B 100, p 342] LT. GOV. PATRICK SINCLAIR TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. MICHILIMACKINAC SIR, Feby 15th 1780 I had the honor to inform you in Nov' last with my intentions of securing for the winter the Sloop Felicity and the other small vessels in Haldimand Bay, Michilimackinac Island and for that purpose a



Page 500


500

RALDIMAND PAPERS.

wharf is carried out 150 feet in length giving 12 feet of water, the second & last angle frame will be finished in Ten Days hence and completed for answering the.end, as it will then have a straight projection of 120 feet with two frames of 60 feet placed at an angle of 120 Degrees. The further security which the Island may afford for the garrison King's Stores and commerce, has engaged me to employ part of the Troops & some Canadians in sawing Planks & Boards, making Shingles squaring Timber for a Provision Store, officers Barracks & Block Houses and in clearing ground to place them upon when it becomes necessary. As no particular requisition can be made with propriety in the present state of the Province either to the Commander in Chief or to the commanding officers of Posts I can only represent our present situation (well known to you) to be such that ought to give Place to the other as soon as assistance can be spared to effect it men & materials are the Deserata. If the wants expressed by Colonel Bolton are very urgent, our northern situation will give us the advantage of winds, in sending what probably you cannot spare, or the Colonel get from Carleton Island so early-If you are of this opinion an Express can come here early enough to do the needful-opening a communication between Niagara and this Place by Torronto would certainly benefit the King's Service. If a Reformation can be brought about at St. Joseph's where assistance from this will always be intercepted and impaired while it remains in its present state as it lays so much in the way of our Party's sent to cut off the supplies of any Rebel Force directed against Detroit or Niagara. The Sieur du Gay carries a Letter from me to Mons' Chevallier requesting that He will, with all His Majesty's Subjects remove this Post with convenient speed In this and all other matters evidently necessary I shall promise myself your assistance & that of all the commanding officers on the communication. In compliance with my Lord George Germain's Letter, I have sent a War Party from hence to join and act with the Scioux under Wabasha, their Chief. Monsr Roque the Interpreter for that nation (if he can go) with a Mr. McKey as English Interpreter & Commissary will join him and I hope that they will proceed sufficiently early and in Force to be of service. I shall prepare other small Bands and:, ^ -.



Page 501


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO COL. BOLTON.

501

send off as soon as I can, with safety, disclose the objects of their mission. I have the Honor to be Sir Your most obedient and most Humble Servant Major [signed] PATT SINCLAIR De Peyster Lt. gov. of Michilimackinac [B 100, p 345] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT, 10th March 1780. SIR I received a Letter from Mons. Louis Chevallier of St. Joseph's acquainting me that the Rebels have totally quitted the Illinois Country. Thirty Indians are also arrived from the Shawanese Country with Capt. McKee, Mr. Elliott, the Girtys & about 50 Indians, amongst them are the principal Chiefs of the Mingoes Shawanese & Delawares. They report that the Rebels failed in their attempt to build a Fort at Cooshocking, but that they have now surrounded the Indian Hunting Ground of Kentuck, having erected small Forts at about two days Journey from each other. The Indians further say that the Virginians intend to cross the Ohio this Spring & build a Fort on the Little Miamis. They therefore require of their Father to give them the assistance promised by former commandants in case the Enemy should approach their Villages. They produced Lt. Gov. Hamilton's Belt & Strings to the effect to prove their assertion-saying that it was now time to fulfil the promise, or they would soon be under the disagreeable necessity of falling back-and thereby become.a Burthen on their Father, or else that they must retire to the Southward. The principal Chiefs of the Hurons, Pottawatamies, Chippewas, Ottawas, Ouiattanons, Miamis, Ouiats, Peroias & Kickapous being present in Council declared that if I would send some soldiers till a greater Body could be spared, they would rise and assist their Elder Brothers, and for the future act in conjunction for the good of the King's Service. Seeing the necessity of complying with their requests I propose to send Capt Bird with a Lieut of the 47h & about Fifty Soldiers with two small pieces of Ordnance. The Indian Officer & some Volunteers from the Settlement. The Route they shall take is up the Glasie and down the Great Miamis to the Ohio. I flatter myself that this little



Page 502


502

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

movement will favor Lieut Gov. Sinclair's Party down the Mississippi, divert the attention of many from Niagara, and be of some service to Brig. Genl. Campbell in case he has not already taken New Orleans. The Wabash Indians & some from Michilmackinac have promised to divert Clarke at the Falls. So soon as the Ice is clear from the Miami Bay, I will send off this Party. The annexed proceedings of Lieut Caldwell, I send for your perusal, and which you will forward to the General if you think proper. I have enclosed a map of the Indian Country in my letter to the General. I am glad I have an opportunity of sending off Lieut Gov. Sinclair's Letters on receipt of them, as he is very anxious for their getting down before the Traders leave Montreal. I see he is moving the Fort over to the Island. He makes great requisitions from the Naval Department and to me for cannon and ammunition, none of which can be complied with. Capt. Grant sends down a copy of his letter. I fear the Sloop Wyandot is lost not having been heard of at Michilimackinac. There are some hopes yet that she may have wintered at Manitoulin, on the French River. Capt. Grant has delivered me the several Vouchers for Freights. I send you a copy of his account and only wait orders to have it collected. The Distresses of the Inhabitants here are very great for want of Bread, not an ounce of Flour, or a grain of corn to be purchased, many will be at a loss for grain to put in the ground-the fall wheat however has a good appearance from having had a quantity of Snow. I am sorry to inform you Sir that Lieut Banbury and Mr. Godfrey the Conductor are drowned by the overturning of a Canoe. The ducks flying in clouds past the Fort, the gentlemen forgetting they had been desired not to go in canoes, too eager of sport, have lost their lives, & Mr. Saumarez & DuVernet had a miraculous escape. I now shall put an effectual stop to all Canoeing. I have the honour to be Sir Your most obedient & most humble Servant Lieut Col. Bolton [signed] AT. S. DEPEYSTER [B 100, p 347] ALEX GRANT TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT March llh 1780 SIR I have the honor of informing you since my last that all the Publick



Page 503


COURT PROCEEDINGS AGAINST GEN. HOWARD.

503

works in this Department has been carried on as expeditious as the severity of the weather would permit. I am in hopes by this time the navigation is open for Fort Erie and Michilimackinac There will be such a quantity of Ship Timber, vizt, oak, Pine and Red Cedar laid into the Ship yard, that it will enable the Commissioner to execute the Comm' in Chiefs order (quick) relative to Building one or two vessels. With all the vessels we now have in good repair for three or four years-I am sorry by our last accounts from Michilimackinac there is no word of the Wyandot Sloop, that sailed for that place last Fall, but I am not without hopes of her wintering at one of the Islands on the North East side of Lake Huron I received a Letter from Lieut Governor Sinclair, a copy of which I shall have the pleasure of enclosing you, I referr'd him for an answer to the Commissioner. All the Lieut Governor's demands is out of my power, except Pitch and Oakum for Batteaux. Mr. Reynolds a latter Volunteer in this Department seemed to take a dislike to the service since last Fall and neglected it much since, but when press'd to act differently this Spring, delivered his Letter to Major De Peyster, and talks of trying his luck in the Army. I have the honor to be Sir Your most obedient and Humble Servant Lieut Col. Bolton ALEX GRANT P. S. I have delivered Major De Peyster two Abstracts of the Freights due to the Crown across the Lakes Erie & Huron for 77- 78 & 79 with almost all the Merchants Promissory Notes. One of the abstracts I have no doubt he will send you by this opportunity. [B 100, p 343] A. G. COURT PROCEEDINGS AGAINST GEN. JOSEPH HOWARD. DISTRICT OF MONTREAL O J Tuesday 21st March 1780 Weekly Sittings (James Southorne Esquires Present James McGill [.Pierre Fortier Comm" The King's Atty General vs Howard. The defendant summoned on an Information against him by the Plaintiff for having gone from Montreal and La Chine last year to



Page 504


501

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Michilimackinac with goods without a pass from the Governor of the Province contrary to the Ordinance of the Province in that case made & provided Information read dated the 18h March instant by the Plaintiff and signed James Monk Atty General. W. Powell appears for Defendant duly called and pleads to the Information, that he is not guilty of the offences laid in the Information. Paragraph of a Letter from Major Depeyster relative to Mr. Joseph Howard dated the 9th July 1779 produced to the Court & read. Invoice of 'Mr. Howard's Goods 30h June 1779, and certified the 9h of June by Major De Peyster Commanding Officer at Michillimackinac produced & read. Bond from Messrs. William Grant, John Kay, David McGray for Mr. Howard's appearance at Montreal of the 30th June 1779 produced and read. Petition of Mr. Joseph Howard dated the 12h June 1779 at Michilimakinac to Gov. Haldimand. Mr. Powell for the Defendant says that agreeable to the Ordinance of the Province in Prosecuting persons for going up to trade to the Upper Country without a pass, there must be on evidence a witness sworn to prove the fact other than the Informer's oath as required by the Statute respecting Informations. Mr. Ettien Campion sworn says he saw Mr. Joseph Howard at Michillimakinac last August that he does not know of his having traded there then but that he heard so. Edward William Gray sworn says that he is acquainted with the handwriting of Major Depeyster having several Letters from him and that he firmly believes that the name A. S. Depeyster signed & subscribed to an Invoice.dated at Michilimackinac the 9th July 1779 is the proper name & handwriting of Major Depeyster then commanding officer at Michilimackinac. Mr. Charles Calvin sworn says he was at Michilimackinac about the month of July last & that he saw Mr. Howard there that he was told by several persons he had a store of goods there. The Court having duly examined & considered the circumstances in this case, condemn the Def' Joseph Howard to pay a fine of fifty



Page 505


GEN. HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. MACLEAN.

505

pounds current money of the Province, conformable to the ordinance of the province, & that the same be' apply'd as thereby required. A copy of the minutes. J. Burke Clk of the Peace The Atty General Copy of Proceedings vs Howard, Endorsed: Proceedings of the weekly Court of Justices at Montreal 21st March 1780 [B 185-2, p 582] MEMORANDUM OF ARMS AT DETROIT. QUEBEC April 6h 1780. Memos. of Repairable and Unserviceable Arms &c at Niagara & Detroit proposed to be removed to Quebec. At Detroit S. R. U. English Musquets 37 - 83 Bayonets for Musquets 18 - Barrels of Powder 25 - F. MACBEAN N. B. The articles above mentioned 'that are serviceable are set down only to shew what are at these two posts serviceable the repairable & unserviceable articles of each denomination are proposed to be removed. [B 156, p 206] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN. QUEBEC Aprill 10th 1780. SIR I have received your Letter of the 6h Aprill and am pleased it was in my power' to afford any relief to the family of so worthy an officer as Captain Macdougall was. The moment the navigation of the Great River Ottawa becomes in any degree practicable, I desire you will send to the post of Carillon a Subaltern and fifteen men of the 84h Regnt, with the most explicit orders to prevent any merchandize or Canoes whatever from passing up that River without a proper Passport signed by me, and as this happened last year notwithstanding all precautions we took I desire you will now obtain every possible information to prevent a repetition 64



Page 506


506

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

of such illegal proceedings, and if necessary small parties of them might be sent from this detachment still higher up than Carillon in order effectually to perform this service. I propose sending to Lieut Govr. St. Clair at Michilimackinac a Detachment of the 84h Regiment, consisting of one serjeant one corporal and twelve privates and as he is in great want of artificers, I wish as much as possible they were all carpenters wheelers, Smiths or Masons. I intend that the Artificers already in the Engineers Dept. should form part of this detachment and if possible the remainder might be taken from Captain Sinclair's own Company, at all events the men should be warned and properly supplied with all necessaries for eighteen months and to be ready to move when called upon. I am Sir Your most obedt. Servt Brig Genl Maclean [signed] FRED HALDIMANI at Montreal. [B 131, p 51] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC April 16b 1780. SIR The enclosed Letter to Major De Peyster will instruct you with my intention of changing the situation of the Fort at Michilimackinac, which from many and evident reasons will be attended with great advantages. The weakness of that Post will make every assistance that can be given necessary, you therefore will please to direct that the detachment of the King's Regt. intended to reinforce it last Fall be sent there as early as the navigation will permit, which with the artificers I shall send from this place will afford a good assistance. I am Sir with great regard your most obedient and most humble Servant Lieut Col. Bolton at Niagara [B 104, p 112] LT. COL MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA April 19h 1780. SIR Since the'last letter which I had the honor to write to your Excell

Page 507


GOODS BELONGING TO FORSYTH & DYCE, DETROIT.

507

ency, we have received very little Intelligence of any consequence, and not the least concerning the Enemy to be depended upon. The 8h Inst an Express arrived from Detroit with letters from Major De Peyster, Captains Grant, Burnett, McKee &c. copies of all which I have enclosed with some Returns, which I hope will meet with your approbation These letters will inform your Excellency that the Seamen on Lake Erie are satisfied with the same Rations as the Seamen receive on Lake Ontario and I have settled with Lieut. Col. Butler how the corps of Rangers are to be paid for the future-which will commence the 25h of this month-enclosed you have a sketch of what we have agree'd on. The Colonel has had his men out this spring (or rather winter) frequently firing at marks &c. &V. agreeable to your Excelleency's orders-and I sent him two grass Hoppers with a Soldier of the Royal Artillery which they now seem to think may hereafter be extremely serviceable in the woods I intend to send a Company to Detroit as soon as the vessels arrive, and shall desire Major De Peyster to keep two Complete Battalion Companies at Michilimackinac, but before I order a Captain there I should be glad to know what powers the Lieut Govr has in order to prevent any disputes that may arise which always injures the Kings Service. I am sir with the greatest respect Your Excellency's most obedient and Humble Servant MASON BOLTON [B 100, p 361] GOODS BELONGING TO FORSYTH & DYCE, DETROIT. Goods belonging to Forsyth & Dyce Merch'" Detroit now laying at Carleton Island April 20h 1780. 12 Bales Blankets & Strouds 6, Bales Molton Peniston Serge &c. 4 Bales Cloths Ratteens &c 3 Trunks Linen 3 Cases Stationary 1 Trunk Calicoes 1 ditto Hosiery



Page 508


508

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

2 ditto Shoes 1 Cask Hardware 4 Casks Sugar & Coffee 2 Chests Cottons 1600 gallons Rum 400 gallons Wine Under Charge of R. HAMILTON Endorsed: Goods belonging to Forsyth & Dyce Detroit. [B 127, p 126] CHAS. GRANT TO GENE FREDERICK HALDIMAND. His Excellency General Frederick Haldimand Esq. &c. &c. SIR In conformity to Your Excellency's request I made every inquiry in my power concerning the Trade carried on between the Merchantile people of this Province, and the savages of the Upper Countries; but the time since you spoke to me on that head being short to collect all the intelligence I wanted I am not yet furnished with information sufficient to lay every branch 6f that Trade before Your Excellency so full & clear as I could wish, however such knowledge, as I have acquired of that business is as follows, and submitted to your Excellency's consideration to grant passes for carrying on the current year's Trade, as you may judge consistent with the welfare & the safety of the Province. SAt all times the trade to the Upper Countries has been,considered the staple Trade of this Province, but of late years it has been greatly augmented, in so much that it may be reckoned one year with another to have produced an annual Return to great Britain of Furrs to the amount of ~200,000 Sterg. which is an object deserving of all the encouragement and protection which government can with propriety give to that trade. The Indian Trade by every communication is carried on at great Expense, Labour & Risk of both men and goods by accident or otherwise, it is not therefore to be expected that the Traders in general are men of substance, indeed few of them are able to purchase with ready money such goods as they want for their Trade-they are consequently indebted from year to year untill a Return is made in Furrs to the Merchants of Quebec & Montreal who are importers of goods from England and furnish them on credit; in this manner the Upper Country Trade is chiefly carried on by men of low circumstance destitute of



Page 509


CHAS. GRANT TO GEN. HAjDIMAND. 509 every means to pay their debts when their Trade fails, and if it should be under great restraint or obstructed for a-'few years, the consequences would prove ruinous to the commercial dart of this Province and very hurtful to the Merchants of London, Shippers of goods to this country besides the loss, of so valuable a branch of Trade in Great Britain. In these troublesome times the least stop to the Indian Trade might be productive of very bad consequences, even among the Savages who are our Friends or neuter, who on seeing n supply of goods would immediately change sides and join the Enemies of Government under the pretence that the Rebels had got the,etr of us, and that we had it not in our power to supply them any longer all the property in the Upper Country in such a case would beconie an easy prey to their resentment, and the lives of all His Majesty's subjects doing business in those countries at the time of a rupture of that nature might probably fall a sacrifice to the fury and Rage of disappointed uncivilized Barbarians. I am informed that of late years from ninety to a hundred Canoes have annually been employed in the Indian Trade from Montreal by the communication of the great River to Michilimackinac Lakes Huron and Michigan, La Bay & the North West, but this particular may be better ascertained from the Register's office, where I imagine not only the number of canoes but the names of the men employed in that Trade, and the places of their destination is recorded.-without access to that office it is impossible to be exact in these points. From the different Posts above mentioned, comes at least one half the Furrs, annually exported from Canada, one fourth is supposed to come from Niagara Detrois and their environs and one fourth is said to be produced at the lower Posts, and inhabited parts of the Province. I do not know how many canoes may be wanted this year for the Trade of Michilimackinaw and its dependencies, but I imagine a greater number than usual is absolutely necessary, because they will have to carry from Montreal all the Provisions requisite for that Trade which was mostly furnished in former years from Detroit, and carried from thence to Michilimackinac in vessels of burthen, by which means a great deal of Expence was saved in carriage. As to the danger of goods sent up the Grand River, to the N6rth West, or La Bay falling into the hands of the Rebels, or being carried to them by disaffected persons, I am told it is hardly possible to be effected, the communication being so difficult of access and the'distance so great that the carriage of goods conveyed by that Route would cost much more than they canm by any means be worth. * To this I shall insert the average

Sf



Page 510


510

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

value of a canoe load of goods, at the time of departure from Montreal at Michilimackinac and at the Grand Portage, from that it may be judged how far it may be practicable to carry on any commerce with the Enemies to Great Britain by Le Bay, even by disaffected persons; from Lake Michigan goods may be carried to the Rebels, but at very great expence labour.& risk, the access through that channel being also difficult, and a great way to go; tho' not so far as the former; for my part I am not at present perfectly acquainted with the Routes or distances to give a distinct account of them, therefore I refer to the Maps of these countries from which that particular will be better ascertained. A Canoe load of goods is reckoned at Montreal, worth in dry goods to the amount of ~300 first sterling cost in England, with 50 p cent charges thereon makes ~450, besides that, every canoe carries about 200 gallons of Rum & Wine, which I suppose worth ~50 more, so that every canoe on departure from that place may be said worth ~500, currency of this Province; The charges of all sorts included together from Montreal to Michilimackinac ~160, and from thence to the Grand Portage ~90 so it appears, that each Canoe at Michilimackinac is worth ~660 and at the Grand Portage the cost is ~750 currency every canoe is navigated by eight men, for the purpose of transporting, the goods only & when men go up to winter they commonly carry tin. Considering the great number of people in this Province, immediately interested in the Indian Trade, it is hardly possible to suppose but there may be amongst them some disaffected men but the major Part of them I sincerely believe are sure friends to government and it would be hard the whole community should suffer for the sake of a few bad men, since Regulations and Laws are, or may be made sufficiently severe to protect in a great measure or altogether every effort that may be made to convey goods to the Enemy, and if any person whatever should attempt designedly to violate such regulations, as are made for the welfare and safety of the whole, the same ought to be put in execution against him, with the utmost vigor, on conviction of guilt, and the offender never should be forgiven offences committed against the Publick in general. This I know to be the wish of every honest man, within the circle of my own acquaintance and I dare say it is the same with every well meaning man throughout the Province, for it is evident that severe Laws never were made for the government of good men, but for the purpose of securing good conduct, and behaviour among such as require it, and however rigorous the Laws may be, in such times as the present, they can neither affect nor offend any person, but such as may have some view to transgress them.

0



Page 511


CHAS. GRANT TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

511

As to that part of the Trade carried on over Lake Ontario & Erie I am not well versed in it, therefore shall say nothing more on that head, than what I have heard from the best authority, that is,-that improper preferences have been given, in transporting goods, to Niagara, &, Detroit, by which means it is represented that the Trade of this Countries has fallen into a few hands, to the great detriment of many honest men, equally good subjects, and to the additional expence of Government being obliged to purchase what may be wanted for Public Service from a few Individuals probably for enormous prices whereas, if 'the Trade was more general every purchaser of goods would be less lyable to imposition. Last year the Passes for the Indian Trade were given out so late, that it was impossible to forward goods to the places' of destination, Especially in the. North West for that reason all those concerned in that quarter, joined their stock together and made one commcn interest of the whole, as it continues at present, in the hands of the different persons or companies, as mentioned at foot of this. The Canoes for the North West are commonly the first sent off and indeed the earlier all the canoes bound up the Grand River, goes off, the better because the most of the men, that navigate them, can be back in time to cut the Harvest, and do other needful services. I have the honor to be with great respect Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servant CHAS. GRANT. QUEBEO 24th April 1780. - rTodd & McGill 2 Shares " e Ben & Jos Frobisher 2 Do.. McGill & Paterson 2 Do. Sco j | McTavish & Co. 2 Do. 5 Holmes & Grant 2 Do. S" Wadden & Co. 2 Do., o | McBeath & Co. 2 Do. ~ H c.F -Ross & Co. 1 Do. r3 4 Oakes & Co. 1 Do.

[B 99, p 110]



Page 512


512

512 HALDIMAND PAPERS.

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GENERAL ALLAN MACLEAN. B. G. Maclean SIR I have received your letter by express reporting the dangerous state of Captain MciDougall's Health and strongly soliciting that he might have permission to sell his company for the benefit of his family to which the circumstances of his long service having a large family unprovided for and your earnest recommendation have induced me to consent. I have appointed Captain Sinclair formerly of the 15th regiment and still a Captain in the army to succeed him I flatter myself this appointment will be advantageous to you and cannot be deemed a hardship done the regiment. Mr. Sinclair being- an old and very experienced Officer, so that it is only exchanging one good officer for another Capt. Sinclair will appear this day in orders and his commission will bear the date of your letter the 1st April. Messrs. Phyn & Ellice will account with Cap tn McDougall for the purchase of the Company's money at the Regulated Price. [B 131, p 46]_____ BRIG. GEN. ALLEN MACLEAN TO CAPT ROBERT MATHEWS. MONTREAL 1st May 1780 SIR 'Youý will please acquaint His Excellency that five of the Prisoners we had in the Provost Brook out the night before last, one of them belonged to Sir John Johnson's Corps, one of Captain Leakes Corps, a Canadian likewise that has been 14 months confined by order of Brigadier *Powell and the other two were two V of the Prisoners lately taken at Skeensborough. Orders were immediately dispatched to all Captains of Militia, and as I had traced them to near Long Point where they cut away a canoe and that one man of those confined in the same Room remained behind (tho' he gave no information to the guard when the other five went away) has told that they intended to cross the Chambly River to the east side, and endeavour to get to Otter Creek; I have therefore sent seven Indians with an Interpreter to pursue them by that Route, and I thinks its scarcely possible they can escape. The Prison here is really so bad that its very difficult to secure Prisoners that have a mind to get away; However we have taken such measures as I hope will prevent the Like accident in future. In His Excellency's Letter of the 18h April he is pleased to say "that he intends that the artificers of the 84h Regt in the Engineers

0



Page 513


BRIG. GEN. MACLEAN TO CAPT. MATHEWS.

513

" Department should form part of the Detachment to be sent to Gov"'ernor Sinclair" let me entreat that he may be pleased to direct Major Carlton to order these artificers to Join the Regt as that Detachment for Michilimakinac, will soon march. His Excellency in your Letter of the 24h April directs you to acquaint me that Lieut Archibald Maclean has transmitted him a memorial, the contents of which I was acquainted with, its very true that Lieut Archibald Maclean sent me a coppy of a memorial, which he informed me he would by that Post, would transmit, and its a rule with me never to oppose any officer under my command to inform the Commander in Chief of what he may think a grievance, I therefore in the present case permitted Lieut Maclean to act as he thought most for his own Interest, tho' at the same time I was perfectly satisfied his complaint was groundless; I will not at present trouble His Excellency with a long unnecessary detail on that subject, especially as he is pleased to mention in the same Letter that "He hopes an opportunity may be " found ere long to Determine the Disputes subsisting upon the subject " of Rank in the 84h Regiment" Now Sir as I am really a perfect stranger to any Disputes subsisting about Rank in the 84th Regiment (excepting what is already mentioned in Lieut Archibald Maclean's memorial) I shall think myself greatly obliged to His Excellency if he will be so very good as let me know what those disputes are for I once more declare I am not acquainted with them and if His Excellency would be pleased to authorize Major Harris to take information of the complaint mentioned by Lieut Archibald McLean and to report upon it to him that dispute would be cleared up in the course of a few hours I also must beg leave to inform His Excellency that tho' Lieut Lauchlan Maclean is my nephew, that Lieut Archibald Maclean is my Near Relation, and that I was as ready to serve or promote the one as the other, and of this truth His Excellency will be satisfied from the following facts. Upon my arrival at Quebec last August Capt. Alex Fraser informed me that, he had obtained the Commander in Chief's Leave to sell, and that Lieut Lauchlan Maclean (as the oldest Lieut in the Regt that would purchase) had been in terms with him about the Purchase, I told Capt. Fraser that tho' my nephew was the second oldest Lieut in the Regiment, that I rather wished. Lieut Arch. Maclean to have the company. I sent for Lieut Lauchlan McLean and told him that I wished him to give up thoughts of the Purchase at this time as I should rather it went to his friend Lient Archibald McLean, which -proposal he acquiesced in. I then sent for Lieut Archibald McLean, directed him to see Captain Fraser, that I had 65



Page 514


514

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

spoke to him, & if he could satisfy Captain Fraser, I should then mention him to the Commander in Chief as the Purchaser, after several days taken up, they at last broke off as the money could not be got in any manner, that could please Capt. Fraser, (tho' he was very reasonable in the manner of payment) Lieut Archibald Maclean then spoke to Lieut L. Maclean, told him he had given up the purchase but if he could make it out, he would be very happy he should have it in preference to any; Lieut Lauchlan Maclean then went to Capt. Fraser and they settled the matter immediately, I then spoke to the Commander in Chief about the Purchase for Lieut L. Maclean but did not mention Lieut Archibald Maclean, as he told me himself that he had given up all thoughts of the Purchase, as Capt Fraser had refused to take the security he had offered him for the money. When I spoke to His Excellency *about the Purchase for Lieut L. Maclean I also asked leave for him to sell his Quarter Master's Commission which request he was so very good as grant immediately, and without which he would not have been able to purchase. And indeed could it be admitted that Iieut Archibald Maclean was even the oldest Lieut of the two, which is not the case, after what has passed I must think it rather inconsistent in him, eight months after to enter a complaint that he was prevented from a purchase, which he had actually given up, I will make no farther comment, on the conduct of so near a Relation, and what I have said is only to make it appear to His Excellency that if I had any partiality it was in favour of Lieut Archibald Maclean. Captain Alexander Fraser can bear testimony to all I have mentioned, and if the Commander in Chief will permit Major Harris to examine this dispute (and I do not know of any other subsisting) If any Part of my conduct shall appear to be Liable to censure, I am certain it will not be for having done any Injustice to Lieut Archibald Maclean. I beg pardol9 for this l1ng degression and have the Honor to be with Regard Sir Your most Humble and most obedient Servant Captain Mathew ALLAN MACLEAN Endorsed:- From A 1780 B. G. Maclean let May Rec d 3d [B 129, p 142]



Page 515


CAPT. MATHEWS TO LT. COL. CAMPBELL.

515

GOODS BELONGING TO ARCH'D THOMSON & CO., DETROIT. CARLETON ISLAND 3d May 1780 Return of Merchandise belonging to me and in my charge here vizt. For Arch' Thomson & Co Detroit 2000 Gallons Liquor 8 Pieces Stroud a 100 Pair Blankets assorted For consumption here for ditto 500 gallons Liquor 2 Pieces Stroud partly and about 25 Pair Blankets assorted For Alex' Maisonville Detroit 25 Barrels Liquor For White & Lyons Detroit 9 Barrels Liquor ARCH THOMSON [B 127, p 136] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC 4h May 1780 SIR, Having had the Honor to lay your Letter of the 1st Instant, before His Excellency General Haldimand, I have it in command to acquaint you that, His dispatch for Michilimakinac will leave this by the next Post on Monday the 8h Instant. as some of the men who are to compose the Detachment of the 84h Regiment destined for Michilimakinac are still at Sorel, it will be about the 12h Instant before the Canoes can set out. His Excellency desires that every thing may be ready for their departure by that time. His Excellency thinks Merchants will be very well paid, for goods taken up now, so as to make them Remittances by the Fall Fleet, unavoidable immense demands qre now coming in, which oblige the General to reserve money to answer them. "I am Sir &c Lieutenant Colonel Campbell [signed] R. MATHEWS. Montreal [B 113, p 86]



Page 516


516

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. ALLAN IMACLEAN. QUEBEC May 4h 1780. SIR I have had the honor to receive and lay before His Excellency General Haldimand your letter of the 1st instant reporting the escape of the prisoners. His Excellency approves and hopes the measures you,have taken to have them apprehended will succeed, and is pleased that means are now taken to prevent the like accident in future. Orders will be sent by this Post for the artificers, who are to compose the detachment of the 84h Regmt. for Michilimackinac to -repair to Montreal where they will arrive time enough, as His Excellency's dispatches will not leave this before the 8h instant. In regard to Lieut Archd Maclean's Memorial and Lieut. L. Mc Lean's claim of rank in preference to Capt Fletcher, which is the other subject of discontent intimated in a former letter, His Excellency is very far from laying any censure at your door, but when representations of grievances are so formally laid down before the Commander in Chief as have been done by these gentlemen His Excellency thinks it proper for the satisfaction of all parties that a public enquiry should be made into them, which he has likewise considered, must very much conduce to the Tranquility of the Corps in General and the Commanding officer in particular. I am Sir &c [signed] R. MATHEWS Brig. Genl. Maclean [B 131, p 60] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC 10h May - 80 SIR By this opportunity you will receive' His Excellency the Commander in Chief's dispatch for Michilimakinac, which he is pleased to direct you will send off by the Canoes which carry the Indian Presents as soon as possible. He hopes it has been in Your power to send a person, in whom you have undoubted confidence, to take charge of them. His Excellency desires that, with your Leisure, you will transmit to him a List of the Presents you sent, by the Canoes to Mackina. I am Sir &c [signed] R. MATHEWS. Lieut. Colonel Campbell Montreal. [B 113, p 87]



Page 517


INVOICE OF INDIAN PRESENTS.

517

INVOICE OF INDIAN PRESENTS. The following is a recapitulation of an invoice of Indian presents for NMichilimakinac: MONTREAL 13h May 1780 100 prs Blankets 3 pts 200 prs do 2j pts 15 prs do 2 pts 15 prs do 1 pts 17 prs do 1 pt 320 Callico Shirts 246 Linnen do 3 doz Laced Coats 3 doz Laced Hats 3 doz Feathers 215 lbs Vermillion 8 ps Callico 6 ps Flannel 2 ps Scarlet Cloth 82 ps Sorted Ribbon 100 Callimanco Mantalets 6 Colours 42 ps Blue Stroud 4 ps Red do 7 ps Blue Moulton.8 ps Red do 4 ps White do 46 gro: Gartering '24 ps Scarlet Binding 8 doz Looking Glasses 5 groce of Scalping Knives 3 groce Spring do %6 doz. Hadson Bay Spears 80 Brass Tomahawks 20 lb Sewing Thread 2000 Needles 96 Mt" de Ray 24 Cod Lines 120 lbs Thread for Mats 12 doz Fishing Lines 24 doz Large Fishing Hooks,



Page 518


518

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

1000 Smaller Fishing Hooks. 5 Groce Gun Worms 5 Groce Indian Awls 1 Groce Fire Steels 38 Couteaux Croches 6 doz Razors 6 doz Scissors 2 Groce Horn Combs 1 Groce Box do 160 Half Axes 240 Smaller do 104 pr Spears 80 Brass sorted Kettles 800 lb Gun Powder 1200 lb Balls 400 lb Sorted Shott 640 Gallons of Rum 720 lbs Brazil Tobacco In the care of Mr. Thiery a small Trunk containing A Silver Gorget (20) 9 Gold & Silver Spangled Stars 4 doz Large Silver Arm Bands with the King's arms upon them 4 doz do plain 12 doz small do plain 12 Couteaux de Chasse 5 Canoes furnished with the following articles 20 Setting poles 5 Sails 15 Oil Cloths 5 Large Awls 5 Large Sponge 5 Large Axes 5 Large Kettles 1 Smaller do 5 Kegs each containing 8 gallons of Rum; 78 Bags full of provisions for the men. JOHN CAMPBELL Supt. of Ind. Affrs. [B 109, p 57]; 1 i!,



Page 519


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO COL. BOLTON.

51)

MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT 16h May 1780. SIR After the most severe winter ever remembered at Detroit, this is the earliest we think prudent to venture a vessel for Fort Erie. Captain Bird left this on the 12h of April, I received letters from him yesterday, dated 9h of May when he expected to pass the Carrying Place in four or five days. Enclosed you have a Copy of a Letter from Capt McKee to Captain Bird. The Letters came by Ensign Hamilton of the 47h Regmt. who offered to go a Volunteer, which I granted upon receiving a Letter from Capt. Aubrey who seemed desirous Mr. Hamilton should go. I the more readily consented from the scarcity of officers in Garrison and from assurances from Lt. England that you wished the difference subsisting between those gentlemen might be accomodated. Mr. Hamilton returning from the Glaisse was owing to sickness. Capt. Bird is delighted with the activity of Mr. Clench upon all occasions, and says he supplies the want of an officer so well that it will not be felt. Lieut Caldwell will deliver you this Letter, who goes as far as Niagara, to solicit your further leave, agreeable to the promise I made him the last Fall. He will be able to give you, or His Excelly, a satisfactory account of the Shawanesse Country, having wintered with them. The Prisoners daily brought in here are part' of the Thousand Families who are flying from the oppression of Congress, in order to add to. the number already settled at Kentuck the finest.Country for new Settlers in America, but it happens unfortunately for them to be the Indians best Hunting Ground-which they will never give up, and in fact, it is our interest not to let the Virginians,. Marylanders & Pensylvanians get possession there, lest in a short time they become formidable to this Post. A Brother of Mons' De Quindre arrived here yesterday from St. Josephs, to which place all the Pottawatamies had returned, not daring to advance too near Post Vincennes, after having been told by a Canadian Trader that it was garrisoned by 4000 French Troops, & that Count D'Estaing had sent all the Cannon from Jamaica thither-which he had taken, and that the Governor of New Orleans had taken all the English Settlements on the Mississippi. It is cruel that a single lying Rascal, however improbable his story, should stop 300 Indians,



Page 520


520

iHALDIMAND PAPERS.

but this will ever be the case whilst Post Vincennes exists. A few of the Indians went on in order to see their old Friends the French, but they found the place garrisoned by Twenty Three Rebels. Capt. Grant has my leave to wait upon you at Niagara, he will give you a clear account of the state of the Navy. I must observe that he has been indefatigible the whole winter, whereby he has caused much work to be put out of hand, which will be a considerable saving to government. The new Fort will be constant employment for this Garrison for some time to come. The Ditches filling faster than we can Sod, owing to severe weather, and Springs breaking out in all parts which brings down the Earth in great clods. I am this instant agreeably surprized to hear that the Wyandot is hauled upon the East Shore of Lake Huron, with all her cargo safe. If what the Indians report be true-for there is no letter from the master. I have the honor to be Sir Your most Humble & obedient Servant [signed] AT. S. DE. PEYSTER P. S. Monsr Maisonville is a Captain of Militia at this Place-and the only man of the Canadians who is really serviceable to Government in that Line. I beg leave to recommend him to your notice. [B 100, p 370] ENSIGN ROBERT MO CAUSLAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. NIAGARA May 16h 1780 SIR I have been obliged to make an allowance for medicines to Mr. Anthon of Detroit for a considerable part of the King's Regt. stationed there. I am &c. &c [signed] ROBT. MCCAUSLAND Lieut Col. Bolton. Surgeon to the Kings or 8h Regt. [B 100, p 374]



Page 521


'LT. COL. BOLTON TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

521

LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA May 16th 1780 SIR, I beg leave to inform Your Excellency as no vessel has as yet arrived from Detroit that I found it necessary to send an Express to Major de Peyster and enclosed him Extracts of Letters, with such orders as I thought necessary for his Post, and at, the same time desired he would inform Lt. Governor St Clair of everything that might be of the least service for him. I have no doubt but the Major will take care to keep frequent scouts out to watch any operations the Spaniards may intend this campaign towards the Ohio and Wabash Rivers. I shall also desire Colonel Johnson to observe your commands in keeping vigilant scouts out towards the Susquehana, Presqu' Isle and the Road made last year by the Rebels. The Garrison since the arrival of the Detachment of the 34h Regt are constantly employed in carrying on such works as are absolutely necessary for the safety & convenience of this Post. r Whenever the Gage or Dunmore arrives I shall order a company of the Rangers to embark for Detroit, which will enable the Major to reinforce Michilimackinac. I have also desired he would send me an exact account of what merchandize remains at his Post, and whether the arrival of any more will be necessary to carry on the King's Service, but this Sir I think will be a very difficult matter, if not impossible for him, any officer commanding a Post to determine until such times as we are informed whether Government intends to send presents and rum up this Summer for the Indians, as was done last year. Your Excellency I am certain is well convinced that without the usual presents &c. we cannot hope for any assistance from our Indian Allies and that it has been with great difficulty, notwithstanding the immense expence they have been to Great Britain, that we have ever been able to keep them from observing a neutrality, and had a Sullivan acted with more prudence & less severity I am satisfied we should not have had one third of the Six Nations in our interests at this time. I have done everything in my power to serve the merchants & to forward their goods in rotation but that.some of the people they employ smuggled goods up I have scarce a doubt of, not that I in the least suppose they ever gave any orders or knew anything of the matter, nor is it scarce possible I believe for the commanding officer of a Post to guard against such abuses. I have wrote to the Major (as the General Court Martial will assemble at Montreal) to send down the parties concerned with all (66



Page 522


522

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

such evidences as will be necessary and by this opportunity I enclose the papers I received from your Excellency concerning the disputes which happened at Carleton Island. I have given orders for all repairable and unserviceable arms &c to be sent down as soon as possible to Montreal. Two Brass six Pounders were put on board the Caldwell when Sir John Johnson sailed in her to Oswego, which were absolutely necessary & on her return here they were lodged in the Fort, but we have no iron guns here fit for her or the Gun Boats, whenever there may be occasion to employ them. I very nearly lost one owing to an Iron 4 Pounder put on board her by Capt. Schank. There has been no consumption of Gun Powder by the Vessels saluting each other on this Lake, nor do I believe anything of the kind ever happened since I have commanded here, nor have I fired a morning or evening gun as some of the Posts do (as I am informed) in Canada would amount to much more than all the Powder made use of in this Garrison, Notwithstanding I am under the necessity of saluting every party that goes to war or returns with Prisoners, however I hope your Excellency for the future, will allow the commanding officer of the upper Posts, to be on the same footing with the officers commanding at Sorel, St Johns & Isle aux Moix, I mean in respect of firing a morning & evening gun which I think full as necessary as at any of the above mentioned posts. I should have sent down Mrs. Moore's & Mrs. Campbell's Families by this opportunity had there not been a daughter of Mrs. Moores still with the Indians, & notwithstanding I repeatedly requested, that Col" Butler & Johnson would try every method possible to get her in, and sent frequently officers of the Indian Dept out for that purpose, they have still detained her, however I have hopes she will be delivered up in a few days. I am glad your Excellency has given directions to prevent those families (who are coming from Albany) from paying us a visit, as we find it a difficult matter to supply those already here with provisions. I intend to send Mrs. Campbell's and the other families by the way of Montreal as it would be imloper to suffer them at this time to pass thro' the Indian Country. I have been obliged to fall upon a much more saving plan than that of Capt. Frasers, in regard to the provisions served out to the Indians otherwise this garrison must have been put on short allowance three months ago. I have the honor to be &c [signed] MASON BOLTON [B 96-2, p 23]



Page 523


MEMORIAL OF ALEX AND WILLIAM MACOMB.

523

LIEUT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. MONTREAL the 18h May 1780 SIR, Please to acquaint his Excellency the Commander in Chief that I saw the Canoes for Michilimakinac sett out from Lachine the 16h Inst I wish they may gett safe But fear the contrary the Soldiers being entirely unacquainted with that kind of carriage are of course verry awkward in them, they Broake one of the Canoes yesterday at Point Claire I'm not yett certain whither or not they can proceed with it farther than the Lake of the two mountains. I am with great Regard Sir Your most obdt humble Servant Capt. Mathews &c. JOHN CAMPBELL From A 1780-Lt. Col. Campbell 13h May Rec d 20h. [B 111, p 160] MEMORIAL OF ALEX AND WILLIAM MACOMB,- DETROIT MERCHANTS. To His Excellency General Haldimand Governor of the Province of Quebec and the Territories depending thereon &c. &c. &c. The Memorial of Alex and William Macomb of Detroit Merchants. That your Memorialists imported as usual last year a large quantity of merchandise suitable for the Upper Country Trade which now remain at Montreal and Lachine. Many of which goods may be wanted for the use of government at that Garrison as they do all the Merchantile Business for government there & their remaining at Montreal longer would subject them to a Loss they would be ill able to support much of them being perishable. They therefore pray Your Excellency will be pleased to grant them permission for Fifty Batteaux to transport the same to Carleton Island as, it will require that number of boats to contain them and your memorialists will ever pray For Alex & Wm Macomb QUEBEC 20h May 1780 JOHN MACOMB Endorsed:-6:. Memorial from Mr John Macomb of the 20h May 1780 [B 217, p 133] @



Page 524


524

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

CAPT. HENRY BIRD TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. Extract of a Letter from Capt. Bird to Major De Peyster dated at Mons'r Lorimier's. SIR May 21st 1780. "I have the pleasure to inform you that every thing is six Leagues below the Portage where the Perragues are making, they are not yet finished therefore nothing on our part retards. The Hurons of St. Dusky will give the Shawanese no answer about joining. They are ill disposed and not worthy your countenance. People from Detroit tamper with them. McCormie and Dawson mean to join me. Colonel Clarke is advertised of our coming, tho' ignorant of our numbers and Artillery. There are Ten or Fifteen Forts near each other. Houses put in the form of a square. I keep the little gun for quick Transportation from one to the other. I flatter myself you will not disapprove. I forgot to mention one of those Delawares who join neither' Party came from Col. Clarke. Col. Clarke says he will wait for us, instead of going to the Mississippi. His numbers do not exceed two Hundred. His Provisions & Ammunition short." Major De Peyster begs leave to observe upon the above extract, that he is since informed by a Message from the Indians of Sandusky that they are waiting the arrival of the Hurons of Detroit in order to strike with them towards Fort Pitt. [B 100, p 380] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO GEORGE POWNALL. QUEBEC 24th May 1780. SIn, I have had the Honor to lay before His Excellency General Haldimand your Letter of the 22nd Instant covering the distribution of canoes destined up the Grand River, and am commanded to acquaint you, that you intirely misconceived His Excellency upon that business. His wishes being to hurry off as fast as possible the Canoes for that Trade, for which purpose you went from this place provided with Passes. Those he desired you not to suffer to proceed untill a Return of them should be laid before Him for his approbation, were for the communication by Niagara & Detroit, who are not so.pressed for time. His Excellency therefore desires you will without loss of time, deliver the Passes for Michilimackinac and the North West, acquainting the Merchants of your Mistake. I forgot to acquaint you that His Excellency gave permission to a



Page 525


L. GENEVAY TO JAQUES PORTIER.

525

Mr. Sayer (in behalf of Mr. Howard) to proceed with a necessary quantity of Provision only, to collect his effects in that country, but he is not to be permitted on any account to carry up goods. His Excellency would not have objected to Mr. Le Roux (whose father bears a good character) carrying up goods upon his own account) but he learns since the arrival of the express, that he is Clerk to Mr. Howard, for whom it is probable he is employed to carry up goods, as his name does not appear among those who have made Requisitions for this, or former years, The general desires you will inform yourself who he is, & why he did not give his name sooner, untill this can be made plain-He is not to have a pass-His Excellency does not recol- lect his excluding any Person except Mr. Howard. I am Sir &ca George Pownall Esq.signed] R. MATHEWS. Endorsed: [Copy] To George Pownall Esq at Montreal 24th May 1 80 [B 61, p 34] L. GENEVAY TO JAQUES PORTIER. [Translation] QUEBEC 26 May 1780 SIR His Excellency General Haldimand has ordered me to acknowledge the receipt of the letter which you have written to him the 20h Inst. concerning a permit to send two batteaux loaded with liquor to detroit In consequence of which the general has sent orders to Mr Pownall (who is now at Montreal) to give you a pass for your two batteaux. Wishing you a safe voyage I have the honor to be Sir Your very humble and obidient servant Jacque Portier [signed] L. GENEVAY [B 61, p 41] OAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO CAPT. TWISS. QUEBEC 1st June 1780 SIn Having had the honor to lay before His Excellency General Haldi



Page 526


526

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

mand, your Letter of the 27h Ultimo, I am commanded to acquaint you that an order will be dispatched by this post, to send off the artificers mentioned in your Letter, belonging to the 84h Regiment, to Michilimackinac which it is hoped will arrive Time enough to avail of the opportunity of the Traders Canoes. That Regiment being separated and rather in want of officers His Excellency thinks it might be inconvenient to order one upon this Detachment and as officers will be sent there with the Reinforcement from the 8h Regiment, it will be less necessary. I am Sir &c Captain Twiss [signed] R. MATHEWS Endorsed Copy 80 To Captain Twiss at St. Johns 1st Jane [B 154, p 264] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO EDWARD GRAY. QUECEC 1st June 1780. SIR, I have to acknowledge the Favor of your Letter of the 29h Ult. the contents of which I have had the Honor to communicate to His Excellency General Haldimand and I am commanded to signify to you his approbation thereof, & I am further to acquaint you, that there are nine soldiers of the 84h Regt. ordered to repair immediately to Michilimackinac to whom His Excellency desires you will request the Merchants to give a Passage taking one man into a Canoe. His Excellency makes no doubt the Merchants will readily give this assistance to the service particularly as the men are artificers sent up for the purpose of being employed in works which will contribute as much to the safety of the Trade as that of the Garrison. Having procured a Passage for the Detachment you will please to acquaint Brigadier General Maclean when it will be necessary that the men should attend. I am Sir &ca [signed] R. MATHEWS. Mr. Gray. Endorsed (Copy) To Mr. Gray at Montreal let Jane 80. [B 61, p 43] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT June 1st 1780. SIR I received the Intelligence you was pleased to send by the Express, with copies of orders from the Commander in Chief, those concerning



Page 527


CAPT. BIRD TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

527

Capt. Aubrey, I show'd hitn on which he sets out immediately for Montreal. I wrote to you before that Lieut Bremburg was provided for, & that Captain Aubrey & Ensign Hamilton had settled their dispute & that the latter went on the Expedition with Captain Bird. It is so far lucky, this Garrison being rather weak in officers. It will not be in my power to send the Michilimackinac Division off till Capt. Bird returns the men being chiefly with him. Inclosed I send you two letters &c. taken on the Ohio, by a Michilimackinac young Messengrim and his band, they brought in four Scalps, two of which were officers, and one the Sheriff of the County, going express to Clark at the Rappids of the Ohio. Since my last the Pottawatamies of St. Joseph's Terre Coupie and Coeur de Cerf, came in & sharpened their Hatchet, determined to strike tho. Rebels at Post Vincennes and at the Rappids only thirty Virginians at the Post, commanded by one Dalton. I have directed the Pottawatamies to bring me in certain Canadians more troublesome than the Virginians. I send you the Return of Goods wanting by the Merchants at this Post, which seems to be moderate. Messrs Macomb & Edgar are not included. They will want a considerable quantity, on which subject I have already wrote, by Alex. Macomb to the Commander in Chief, as they supply the Troops with cash, pay all Government Bills and settle for the Garrison, but have no other Trade. I shall if you will however give a sanction to my application in their behalf as you know how necessary it is to have men in their way to answer our necessary demands. I have the honor to be with respect Your most Humble obedt. Servt. [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER. Lt. Col. Bolton P. S. I also wrote in favor of Mr. McBeath to get up some Batteaux he is down the country and not entered in the enclosed List. Young Mr. Clinch is a lad of great merit and will be sorry to hear that he is no longer attached to the King's Regmt. [B 100, p,384] CAPT. HENRY BIRD TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER June the 3d a days march from the Ohio SIR My conjectures respecting the Hurons being turn'd by the Wakata

Page 528


528

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

miki Indians are not true-so far from it they did all in their power to pursuade them to join us, which the Hurons refused-they then told them it was not proper they should go forward in small parties, and gave them Scalps, which is their fashion of telling them to wait. The Hurons glad of the opportunity returned, but have, tho' repeatedly invited refused to Join the Confederacy. Capt. McKee desires his Compliments, gives me the above information. The Prisoners who were sent off by the Hurons, or rather by Zeans with their silent consent, arrived some time ago at the Falls, with Intelligence of our approach, they went off to Col. Clarke to return immediately. He will not be able to join the Rebels assembling at the Falls-before the 15h of this month-He has certainly 200 Soldiers with him. By what we can learn they are gathering as many as possible at the Falls to meet us-but there is much division amongst them. I went to Capt. McKee and told him, I could wish he would attempt to biass the Indians as far as proper to proceed immediately to the Falls- I stated my reasons as followsIt is possible before Col. Clark's arrival, they may raise 800 men; probably they may raise 600 certain they can raise 400. It is also possible we may beat 800, probable we can beat 600, certain we can beat 400. Col. Clarke's arrival will add considerably to their numbers, and to thelr confidence. Therefore the Rebels should be attacked before his arrival, now it is possible he may return by the 14h probable by the 22nd certain by the 1st of July. Tho possible for us to get to the Falls by the 10h of this month, certain by the 14h. The Indians have their full spirits, the ammunition and every thing plenty, and in the state we could wish it. After taking the Falls the Country on our return, will be submissive & in a manner subdued, but if we attack the nearer Forts first, as we advance we shall have continual desertion of Indians, the ammunition wasted, or expended, and our People far from fresh, our Difficulties will increase as we advance & Col. Clarke will be at the Falls with all his People collected to fight us at the close. I have another reason for attacking the Falls, should he succeed, we can ambuscade Mr. Clarke as he returns. Captain McKee thinks my reasons just, if this plan is not followed, it will be owing to the Indians who may adopt others.



Page 529


LT. GOV. SINCLAIR TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

529

The2 next time I shall have the pleasure of writing to you, I hope will be to write you of some little successI am Sir with respect Your most obedt. Servant Major DePeyster [signed] HENRY BIRD Major De Peyster begs to remark that the Hurons have taken the Route towards Fort Pitt, will, in all probality answer a good end. [B 100, p 425] LT. GOV. PATRICK SINCLAIR TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. Extracts of Letters from Lieut Govr. Sinclair to Lieut. CoL BoltonJune 4h 1780. MICHILIMACKINAC June 4h 1780. "I have the Honor to enclose you Returns of the Garrison, which account for all casualties since Major De Peyster's Departure.. The Return of Ordnance Stores will show how much a supply is wanted here. Having collected all the Tools belonging to Individuals, the state of the Engineers store is a little recruited, but Naval Stores are very much wanted, particularly an armed vessel of some Forcealso Artificers and Materials. The Sloop Felicity with a small Vessel, private property, went into Lake Michigan on the 29h Ultimo to land a Party of Canadians and Indians, who go by the Illinois River to second the attack of a Thousand Traders, Servants and Indians, sent down the Mississippi in obedience to my Lord George Germain's Circular Letter. I am now in Treaty with the Ottawas to Join Thirty Warriors from Sagina and the Island Band to attack Post Vincent. If we can raise 200 men, it will be undertaken immediately, as I expect a little help from the Pottawatimies, who I have taken the liberty of menacing a little." July 4h 1780 - "The arrival of a Serjt. Corporal & 12 men of the 84h Regmt. & Sthe return of the Serjt. & two Privates of the 8h Regimeut, are the only casualties since my last Letter. The conveyance of all secret matters by the route this letter is sent will be preferable to that of Detroit, and I believe the bearer of it would undertake to serve as a Courier between Niagara and this Post, he receives permission to leave it now-future indulgence will depend upon your commands. ) The two Vessels are returned from Lake Michigan with a part of the Indians & Volunteers on the attack against the Illinois, scarcity of 67



Page 530


530

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Provisions obliged them to return by different Routes, some by the Mississippi, some through the Country between Lake Michigan and that River, and some as directed by Chicagoe. They have brought off Forty three Scalps, thirty four Prisoners, Black & whites & killed about 70 Persons. They destroyed several hundred cattle, but were beat off in their attacks on both sides the River, at Pencour and at Cahokias, owing to the treachery of Mons' Calve & the Sacks & Renards (for whom he is paid by the crown as Interpreter) His partner in commerce a Mons' Ducharme has kept pace with him, in preferring the little under" hand commerce of that country to the advantages I held out to them all, in promising them the Trade of the Missouri, providing they could gain & Garrison the Illinois. The success of the Spaniards from Orleans, perhaps no attack against that place from the state of the Southern Colonies, & the interference of French arms, are the causes of our disappointment in part, about the close of the Illinois Harvest They will receive another visit, & I now send some Volunteers & one hundred Indians to make a diversion in favor of Capt. Bird, probably it may cover his attack from annoyance from the Illinois at any event they will be able to intercept the Carriers of Provisions between that country & the Rebel Posts. That want of secrecy which is and must always be hurtful to the service, I cannot help lamenting upon this occasion. The Spaniards received their information of the meditated attack against the Illinois in the month of March last, and threw up in consequefice of it a Breast Work round a Stone House. The Winnipigoe Indians without exception, attempted to storm it, and lost a Chief & three men on the Spot. four are wounded & one of them (I fear) mortally. They are enraged against the backwardness of the Canadians, and the base conduct of the Sacks, who have been debauched by the Rebels on account of their lead mines, & by the Traders in their Country, who drew advantages from them. [B 100, p 430J CAPT. ALEXANDER MO KEE TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. SIR I had the Honor of receiving your favor of the 8h of May the 31st ultimo, at which time I Joined Capt. Bird near the Forks of the Miamis, being the place appointed by the Indians for this purpose, and the third day after his arrival there.



Page 531


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

531

The next day arrived about 300 Indians, which with those from the Lakes makes us near 400 strong. The Six Nations with a large Band of Shawanese upon the way to Join us-computed to 200 more-will make our Party about 600 Indians, besides Capt. Bird's Detachment, tho' we shall not be able to collect all our Force till after our arrival at the Ohio, which will be to-morrow, where it is thought most expedient to wait for those in our Rear-as we shall have then an opportunity to intercept any Boats that may be passing down the River. No satisfactory answer has been had from the Hurons notwithstanding three several messages has been sent to them, to expediate their Joining us. About the time we were on the way out, I am informed that a small Party was stop'd by ye. Wakitumik6e Indians from going to war, which those Indians declare was far from their design, having on the contrary called upon them three several times since, for their assistance in the present undertaking. We were overtaken the first Inst.'by messengers from a Deputation of Six Nations. Chiefs arrived at the Huron Villages whose business is to call me and the Chiefs of those Nations to Council proposed to be held at Detroit, in answer to which we have told 'them, that as we were now upon the way against the enemy, they must wait the Event of the present enterprise and a message at same time is sent to the Hurons to inform them if they, are disposed to Join in it, they had still time to overtake us: I am Sir, with great respect Your most obedient and very humble Servant June 4h 1780 [signed] A. McKEE Major De Peyster [B 100, p 428] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT June 8h 1780 SIR I am favoured with your Letter of the 17h of May and am sorry to hear you have been afflicted with a Pain in your Breast. I hope the warm weather will. remove so disagreeable a Companion. Whenever I have it in my power I will lose no time in sending the Detachment to Michilimackinac, the men are with Capt. Bird, until his return we have no more men than are indispensably necessary for 4



Page 532


532

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

the Duty & works of this garrison. Officers of course will be wanting to compleat the two companies-I have them not, should any be sent from your Posts they will be here in good time. I wish the Rangers I wrote to you for were arrived in order to send them to support Capt Bird in case of necessity and at all events to relieve his Detachment after he has seen the Enemy. I have taken the precautions to send a Body of Indians to Post Vincennes, and to the Rappids of the Ohio, a considerable Body with Capt. Bird towards Kentucky and all the Hurons more towards Fort Pitt. I am obliged to you for the Copies of Intelligence you have sent me, I hope matters will soon terminate to the Honour of Gt Britain. The several Orders & Regulations shall be strictly attended to, I wish however that a Baker may be found who will do it agreeable to Captn. Fraser's regulation, they are too much debauched in this country & it is necessary to observe that it will require English Flour to do it with. It is not possible for me to give you much satisfaction with regard to the quantity of goods sent to the out Posts, no account thereof having been kept before my time. When I have been here long enough I shall be able to be particular with regard to Imports & Exports. The Merchants being mostly absent puts it altogether out of my power now-In jhe mean time I send you an account of goods remaining in Detroit, and have already sent you a list of what the Merchants think "absolutely necessary & what I think by no means unreasonable. As the Angelica cannot get up the River, I have for Dispatch ordered Batteaux to fetch up her cargo-She with the Faith shall sail, wind & weather permitting, by tomorrow evening. The Dunmore & Gage are not yet finished and the latter has just broke her main mast in three on being hove down. The Wyandot not arrived as you will see by the Enclosed Letter, & the Welcome gone to assist her for some days past, so that I have only -(he Adventure, noways calculated for a Mackinac Voyage-She therefore goes to endeavour to get up the guns at Point au Pin. It is hoped in a day or two the Felicity will make her appearance from Michilimackinac, when I shall forward everything to that Post. I have the Honor to be Sir Your Humble & obedient Servant 5 Lieut Col. Bolton [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER [B 100, p 381]



Page 533


CAPT. BIRD TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

533

BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. MONTREAL 9th June 1780 SIR 10 o'clock at night. The Bearer of this Letter came Express from Michilimackinac, I had a Line from Governor Sinclair desiring to forward him with the Generals Dispatches with all expedition but he was so fatigued that he intreated a respite till three o'clock in the morning to-morrow at which time he is to sett out. There are about 40 men that over the Lakes with Sir John Johnson, that now refuse to Join him Sir John or any corps (as I am told) I do think it improper that such a number of Loose idle fellows should be permitted to run about the country, as they may leave the Province in twos and threes whenever they please, and it will be impossible for any one to know; if they are allowed to go where they please and as they have refused to enter with Sir John or any other corps of the Royalists, I do really confess that they appear to me to be rather suspicious persons, and if the Commander in Chief approves of it, I will have them taken up & put Prisoners among the Rebels here, where they can do no mischief. I shall be glad to have His Excellency's orders on this Point, for without they are secured, some of them may return to the Rebels, whenever they think Proper. I am Sir Your most obedient & most Humble Servant Capt. Mathews ALLAN MACLEAN Endorsed: From A 1780 Brig. Genl. Maclean the 9h June Reed by Express llh [B 129, p 152] CAPT. HENRY BIRD TO MAJOR ARENT -S. DE PEYSTER. OHIO RIVER June llh 1780 SIR, After two days councilling whether they would proceed immediately by the Falls, or attack the Forts on Licking Creek-The Indians have determined for licking Creek & to morrow by day break we move up the stream. I confess to you. my patience have received very severe shocks, and would have been long ago exhausted, had I not had so -excellent an example before me as the one Capt. McKee sets, indeed he manages Indians to a charm. I never saw his fellow. It is now sixteen days since I arrived at the Forks, appointed by



Page 534


534

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

the Indians to meet, and by one ridiculous delay & the other, they have prolonged or retarded to this day. Mons. Le Duc has behaved extremely well in every respect, and has been very serviceable in making shafts and repairing carriages, in which matters he offered his services. You seemed Sir, to have an inclination to serve him on our leaving Detroit. I dont doubt but you will on his return, find him worthy your notice. There has not a man in this Party proved of more Service than Mr. Reynolds, civil in every respect and attentive, an excellent woodsman, & no doubt a good soldier. He was before quite out of his element. Mr. Baby delivered me on setting out, three or four strouds, some worsted, three glasses, and some other little things for Logan, which by bringing in a blanket so far, got all broke & spoil'd. they would never have answered as a present, what was good of the Shirts, Strouds or Blankets, I gave to different Indians, & told Logan what you intended, but the inconvenience of carriage in our present situation made you defer it, till his return to Detroit. I hope Sir my next will inform you of success in our undertakings, tho' their attack on the little Forts, their number being so great is mean of them. The old Prisoner, the Bearer of this is given up by the Shawanese, He endeavoured to escape & give Intelligence of our approach to the Rebels, nothing but our presence saved his Life. After the treatment he got from us, he proved himself a deceitful old villain. Captain -McKee begs his compliments. I am Sir with respect Your most obedient and Major most Humble Servant De Peyster [signed] HENRY BIRD [B 100, p 407] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN. QUEBEC 12h June 1780. SIR I have had the Honor to lay your Letter of the 9h Instant before His Excellency General Haldimand and I am commanded to acquaint you that the General has received Lieutenant Gov. St. Clair's dispatch forwarded by you. In regard to the 40 men who came over the Lakes, with Sir John Johnson, and who decline entering with any corps, His Excellency



Page 535


GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

535

thinks that putting them into confinement leaving them no other alternative but that of serving contrary to their inclinations, would discover a hardness very discouraging to men who profess Loyalty, and altho' their going about the country in the manner you have mentioned is certainly improper atd perhaps unsafe, it were better to submit to that inconveniency than incur a greater expense by making prisoners of them. His Excellency will however find some means to employ them and waits Sir John Johnson's arrival to determiue upon them. I have &c B. Genl. Maclean. [signed] R. MATHEWS' [B 131, p 62] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO CAPT. BURNET. QUEBEC 18h June 1780 SIR I am commanded by His Excellency General Haldimand to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of the 5th January, covering Mr. McComb's certificate concerning the pay charged in account for Lieut "Carnagy and his servant, and' to acquaint you that your sending such certificate was very unnecessary, as His Excellency never conceived an Idea prejudicial to the character he has been informed you always have, and wish to support in your profession, from that circumstance which was fully explained by Captain Schank, and which the necessary Regulation upon that Head will hereafter prevent. I am Sir &c Capt Burnet R [signed] R. MATHEWS Endorsed: (Copy) To 80 Captain Burnet at Detroit 18h June [B 143, p 94] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC 18h June 1780 SIR You are before this time informed that Lieut. Governor Sinclair has purchased a company in the 84h Regim', a Detachment of which is in the way from Michilimackinac where he will of course command, this knowledge will have determined the choice of the Captain you seemed in doubt about sending. It is proper that I should here refer that Captain Sinclair has already discovered not only zeal for the service but an uncommon assiduity & attention to the various objects that



Page 536


536

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

concur in -making that Post of Infinite Consequence to the King's Interests & as prejudicial if neglected, added to these qualities Mr. Sinclair is possessed of good talents, and a perfect knowledge of that country, the kind of Traders that resort to it, and the Indians, I mention this to you that you may place the utmost confidence in him. Having for many reasons thought the management of the provision Store in that remote quarter better if more immediately under the view of the commanding officer, by its being in charge of an officer in the. Garrison, I have sent Lt. Governor Sinclair directions to appoint one, in the room of the present Commissary. I am &c Lieut Col. Bolton Commanding [signed] FRED HALDIMAND at Niagara [B 104, p 127] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT, June 27th 1780 SIR I take the first opportunity of forwarding some interesting papers just sent by the Ottawa Kissinguay, which he took near the Falls of the Ohio. You'see it will become absolutely necessary to support the Indians with Troops, when they may have occasion to call upon us. I have hitherto done all in my power by sending Capt. Bird's Detachment, follow'd by Capt Hare's Rangers whose success, however great may be expected, will not be sufficient to deter those People from settling that country-their Letters plainly show that they will use all means to repair any loss they may receive from so small a Detachment. The Indians perhaps may exceed my expectations, and act more in a Body than they have hitherto done, in which case success may almost be insured, but still it will only be temporary. I wish it may be in His Excellency's power to strengthen this Garrison with Troops before the winter sets in, so that whatever is to be done the next Spring may be concerted during the Winter & put early into execution, otherwise we are councilling when we should be in action. At a Council held yesterday the Chickesaws demanded our assistance, which is not in my power to give, more than by supplying them with Ammunition &c. which must'however be done at the request of the neighbouring Indians, who will be the best judges if they may be



Page 537


GORDIEN D. CUISY TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

537

trusted. They acknowledge themselves that 500 of their warriors have' joined the Spaniards, who they say are not only in possession of the Mississippi but of the greatest part of Florida they were certain of Mobile and had been assured also that Pensacola was reduced. The Wabash Indians sent in a Deputation to request forgiveness for their late bad conduct, assuring me that if I would send them ammunition &ca they would march against the Rebels, naming a Monsieur Bceaubin as their Leader. It is not prudent at present to make them our Enemies, I have therefore accepted of their offer, before the Spaniards get'hold of them, tho' I expect little good from them, whilst the Settlement of Post Vincent is suffered to exist. The Inhabitants of which do more mischief with their Tongues than a Spanish Army would do with their Swords, tho' every Blade were a Terrara. The Miamis in behalf of their Nation accused us of not fulfilling the promises made by Lieut Govr Hamilton who engaged them in the War. I agree the promises were more than it is in my power to fulfill, without more Troops & more goods to dispose of than I could wish to expend upon so worthless a Tribe, but they with the Wabasher's, hold the Key to the Settlement. The old Huron Chief spoke with great spirit, reprimanding the Chickesaws for speaking upon a small white Flag, which they excused by saying, it was the custom of their nation, & that tho King of Great Britain's Flag was flying in all their villages, and that it was in behalf of themselves & the King of England that they were sent here to speak. I have not wrote to the General upon this subject as I know you forward every Intelligence you think worth His Excellency's notice. I have the honor to be Sir Your humble & obedt. Servant [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER Lieut Colonel Bolton [B 100, p 404] GORDIEN D. CUISY TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. [Translation] Finding myself without pay from the King as lieutenant in Mr. Boucherville's company for f6ur years.in which I have taken the just part of the prince, I have only received about one hundred pounds Sterling since I have taken this employment, abandoning a small busi68



Page 538


538

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

ness for the support of my family, your Excellency leading us to hope that we would be paid, continued to the end of the war. Till now I have been obliged to borrow to supply my small wants. In this circumstance I have recourse to your goodness and pray you to give me a pass to go to Detroit & to carry about (livre tournois) 20000 (Tournois) of goods & to trade them thereabout. As the season is far advanced I ask Your Excellency if you please to send the pass by the first post. However, Sir, if my services would be useful to the colony and if your Excellency sees fit to employ me they shall always be at his service. I am with very profound respect Your Excellency's very humble & MONTREAL very obedient servant 1st July 1780 GORDIEN DAILLEBOUT CUISY [B 73, p 141] CAPT. HENRY BIRD TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. OHIO opposite Licking Creek SIR, July 1st 1780. After fatigues that only those present can entertain a proper Idea of we arrived before Fort Liberty the 24th of June. I had before that day entreated every Indian officer that appeared to have Influence among the Savages, to pursuade them not to engage with the Fort, untill the guns were up-fearing if any were killed it might exasperate the Indians & make them commit cruelties when the Rebels surrendered. Poor McCarty in every other respect an extreme, attentive, serviceable fellow, perished by disobeying this order. An Indian was shot through the arm. The Three Pounder was not sufficient, our People raised a Battery of Rails & Earth within 80 yards of the fort-taking some advantage of a very violent storm of rain which prevented them being seen clearly-They stood two discharges of the little gun, which only cut down a Spar & stuck the shot in the side of a House-When they saw the Six Pounder moving across. the Field, they immediately surrendered, they thought the three Pounder a Swivel the Indians and their Department had got with them-The conditions granted That



Page 539


CAPT. BIRD TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

539

their Lives should be saved, and themselves taken to Detroit, I forewarn'd them that the Savages would adopt some of their children. The Indians gave in Council the Cattle for Food for our People & the Prisoners and were not to enter till the next day-But whilst Capt. McKee and myself were in the Fort settling these matters with the poor People, they rush'd in, tore the poor children from their mothers Breasts, killed a wounded man and every one of the cattle, leaving the whole to stink. We had brought no Pork with us & were now reduced to great distress, & the poor Prisoners in danger of being starved. I talked hardly to them of their breach of Promise-But however we marched to the next Fort, which surrendered without firing a gun. The same Promises were made & broke in the same manner, not one pound of meat & near 300 Prisoners-Indians breaking into the Forts after the Treaties were concluded. The Rebels ran from the next Fort and the Indians burn'd it-They, then heard news of Col. Clark's coming against them & proposed returning-which indeed had they not proposed I must have insisted on, as I had then fasted some time & the Prisoners in danger of starving-incessant rains rotted our People's feet the Indians almost all left us within a days march of the Enemy. It was with difficulty I procured a guide thro' the woods-I marched the poor women & children 20 miles in one day over very high mountains, frightening them with frequent alarms to push them forward, in short, Sir, by water & land we came with all our cannon &c 90 miles in 4 days, one day out of which we lay by entirely, row-ing 50 miles the last day-we have no meat & must subsist on Flour if there is nothing for us at Lorimiers. I am out of hope of getting any Indians to hunt, or accompany us, however George Girty I detain to assist me-I could Sir, by all accounts have gone through the whole country without any opposition, had the Indians preserved the cattle. Everything is safe so far, but we are not yet out of reach of pursuit-As a very smart fellow escaped from me within 26 miles of the Enemy-Provisions and Perangues we shall want at the glaize & the vessel at the mouth of the Miamis. I refer you to the Bearer for particulars. I am Sir with respect Major Your most obed' Servant De Peyster [signed] HENRY BIRD [B 100, p 410]

/ *



Page 540


540

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

MAJOR ARENT S DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. Extracts of Letters from Lieut Governor Sinclair* to Lieut Colonel Bolton. DETROIT, July 6th 1780 SIR, The Wellcome arrived last night from Sagina, and I now send her off to Fort Erie in order to fetch a load of Provisions for the Post of Michilimackinac, so as to be able to proceed therewith without unloading here. This I think will be the best method of forwarding the Trans port of Provisions, as I see the Felicity is not like to come. The annex'd Letters are just delivered me by Express from St. Josephs, with the additional verbal news, that the Western Indians have attacked the Spanish Settlement of St. Louis, & after having killed & taken many Prisoners (after having gained ground through half the village) they were obliged to retire from the warm reception they met with. The Indians of St. Joseph's have been attacked near Post Vincennes by the Piankishaws & lost 4 men killed & 5 wounded. I greatly dread an Indian War on the Wabash, which will, I fear, much disconcert my plans -I am, however, determined not to enter into it, provided the Piankishaws are not aided by the Rebels, in which case I cannot avoid it I wish I had more Troops, so as to be able to keep an hundred men at the Miamis Town, the Indians have some time ago requested it, and I now would choose to do it, in order to give heart to the Pottawatimies whilst they revenge themselves, provided I cannot settle the matter otherwise. The reason given by the Piankishaws is, that the Ottawas of Michilimackinac carried off one of their Chiefs to speak to Lt. Gov..Sinclair, to answer his conduct to them when at war in their neighbourhood. Lt. Gov. Sinclair sent that Indian to me, & I sent him home but he arrived too late. The Pottawatimies also demand of me the 'reason why all their Traders are forced from them without leaving even their Smith, & that at a time when they most heartily entered into the cause of their Father the King of Great Britain. I have pacified them by.answering them that their Father at Michilimackinac will not withhold Traders from them, tho' he may not think proper to send the same back. I am so hurried with War Parties coming in from all Quarters that * Probably should read Major De Peyeter.



Page 541


CAPT. M'KEE TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

541

I do not know which way to turn myself, nor have I time to write the Indian news to Colonel Johnson. I have the Honor to be Sir Your Humble & obedt. Servt [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER Lieut Col. Bolton [B 100, p 433] CAPT. ALEXANDER MC KEE TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. SHAWANESE VILLAGE SIR July 8h 1780 The last letter I did myself the Honor of writing you was dated from the Plains of the Great Miamis containing an account of every thing material to that time, and that our Force was to be collected upon the Ohio, at th'e mouth of that River we arrived the 13th of June & waited some days for a few Chiefs of Chollicorthy who had fallen upon the River some miles above us, and upon their arrival at our camp the number of Indians exceeded seven hundred when it was proposed and strongly urged by us, to proceed down the River against the Enemies Forts at the Falls of the Ohio, where we could have arrived in four days by water with the current. besides this advantage we had previously received intelligence that Col Clarke was gone from that place some weeks before with all the Troops under his command to take post at the Iron Banks upon the Mississippi, below the mouth of the Ohio, and that the Inhabitants of the Falls, upon receiving advice of our approach (by two Prisoners who escaped from the Hurons) they had dispatched an Express to recall him to their assistance, but as he had a long distance, & against the current, it was not possible for him to return in time to interrupt us in the execution of our Design upon that Place-but notwithstanding this favourable prospect, which would have been a fatal stroke to the Enemies Settlement in that country, the Indians could not be prevailed upon to come into it, and in a full council of the Chiefs of their several Nations, determined to proceed to the nearest Forts by way of Licking Creek giving for their reason that it could not be prudent to leave their villages naked & defenceless in the neighbourhood of those Forts. Accordingly we advanced by the River as far up as the Forks, where we found it impracticable to get farther by water on account of its lowness, there

Page 542


542

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

fore were obliged to set out by Land and the 20h of June I accompanied about two hundred Indians and surrounded the Enemy's first Fort before day, this was done before they were in the least apprised of us. It was then advised to remain in this situation and by no means to alarm the Fort, if it could be avoided. untill the arrival of the main body with the cannon, unless Parties came out, in this case then to endeavour to take Prisoners in order to gain Intelligence of the Enemies Force and situation, but the eagerness of some Indians upon our left, fired upon a small Party, who came out after day Break to cut Grass-this commenced a firing, both from the Fort and our Indians, which lasted till about 12 o'clock, when Capt. Bird came up with the small gun, and a Battery being erected, after two discharges upon the Enemy's Fort, & the six pounder at the same time arriving in sight determined them to surrender the place. The Indian Chiefs agreed. to the Proposals, as well for the Preservation of the Prisoners as an equal Distribution of the Plunder amongst their' several nations, to prevent jealousies or dissatisfaction, but the violence of the Lake Indians in seizing the Prisoners, contrary to agreement, threw everything into confusion, however the other nations next morning returned all they had taken, back into Capt Bird's charge. The 27th I had dispatched some spies towards the Enemies second Fort, who returned in the afternoon with a Prisoner, having intercepted two'men going express to alarm the other Forts of our. approach. The Intelligence received from this Prisoner determined us to set out immediately for the second Fort, and reached it the next morning about 10 o' oclock, being the 28h. The Prisoner taken the day before was sent in to inform them of the situation-they agree'd to surrender and being removed under a guard of the Troops, the great propensity for Plunder again occasioned discontent amongst, them, and several parties set out towards the adjacent Forts to plunder Horses. The Prisoners now becoming numerous amounting to between three & four Hundred, with a scarcity of Provisions, added to many other insurmountable difficulties that must have attended going farther, determined the Chiefs to return from this Place, and the next day we were back at the first Fort-here we were overtaken by one of the small Parties with a Prisoner, who had left the Falls of the Ohio eight days before-he says that Col. Clarke was daily expected there and was to command an army against the Indians, who were to leave that place the 10h July. He also adds that an account was brought there from the Inhabitants, that Charles Town South Carolina was in actual possession of the British Troops. I accompanied Capt Bird back to the



Page 543


GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

543

Forks of Licking Creek, from whence he was to proceed by water & having a very high flood would be able to reach the big Miamis in a very short time, the scarcity of Provisions obliged the Indians to disperse. I engaged a few of the Chiefs to stay with Capt Bird, more would be useless & troublesome to him, as there could be no apprehension of danger immediately from the Enemy, however I have engaged the Chiefs of the lower Villages since my arrival, to send a party down upon the Ohio in his rear, and to send Spies towards the Falls. The Enemy abandoned two other Forts, which has been set on Fire by the Indians. These are the most material circumstances relative to this Expedition carried on by the Indians in conjunction with the King's Troops. I am with great respect &c. &c Major [signed] A. McKEE De Peyster [B 100, p 413] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON QUEBEC July 13th 1780 SIR, By your Letter of the 7th Inst which will be delivered to you by Lieut Col. Butler, you will be made acquainted with my intentions of settling Families at Niagara, for the purpose of reclaiming and cultivating Lands to be annexed to the Fort, the expediency of this measure is sufficiently evinced, not only by the injury the service has and must always suffer from a want of a sufficient supply of provisions as well as for the present unavoidable consumption of the Indians, as for the support of Troops it may be necessary occassionally to march into that country but likewise to diminish the immense expense and labour.attending so difficult and so distant Transport, I am therefore come to a resolution, to extend this scheme to the several Posts in the Upper Country, it already in some forwardness at Carleton Island & I here enclose Instructions for carrying it into Execution at Detroit which you will please to forward to the commanding officer after you have perused them. And you will give such orders & assistance as you will judge most expedient for promoting with the utmost dispatch & vigouir an undertaking so apparently Beneficial to government as well as to the ease and comfort of the Troops. The Publick Works carrying on at Michilimakinac will retard for



Page 544


544

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

some time any other pursuit, but Lieut Gov' St. Clair will nevertheless make his success more doubtful than at the other Post. My letter to Col. Johnson whom I refer to you for particulars, will inform you of the situation I have chosen at Niagara, which he is directed to purchase from the Mississagues Indians Lieut Colonel Butler with whom I have conversed fully upon this subject has promised to give you every assistance in his Power & from his knowledge of farming. his being upon the spot with his Rangers and his acquaintance and influence with those who may be found to settle, I am persuaded you will find him very usefull. I, have conversed fully upon this subject and have desired him to engage any Loyalists. He may find proper persons about Montreal and to take them up with them. He informs me there are some good Farmers in his Corps who either advancing in years or having a large Family, he could not dispense with, you will probably find these fit persons to employ the more so as they are likely to have assistance in clearing &c from their comrades but amongst those kind of people, little can be expected without a gratuity, and as that business must be' done by Volunteers & fatigue men, it will be necessary that you furnish Col. Butler frona the Kings store a sufficient quantity. In regard to sealing the prisoners from the Ohio at Detroit, it is so favourable to my determined schemes for agriculture much approved and strongly recommended from home that it must be encouraged but at the same time I should think it unsafe to permit as many of them to remain together, and perhaps impolitic with respect to the Indians, who are naturally Jealous & suspicious and should any bad consequences result from settling those People on their lands they will attribute it to design, I therefore wish to have them divided between Detroit & Niagara & Michilimackinac, those that remain at Detroit to be settled upon Hog Island at Niagara you will dispose of as many as the situation will admit of and send the rest to Carleton Island and as the season will be too far advanced for them to build after their arrival, you would do well with the assistance of Colonel Butler to chuse proper situations and have log houses' erected for them by the Rangers and whatever men, you may occasionally be able to spare, from the Garrison. You will of course observe, that these people must be settled in strict conformity with the Regulations transmitted to you. All of them who are artificers should be employed & reasonable pay allowed them, and in communicating these Instructions to Major De Peyster you will please to direct that a proportion of the artificers found amongst them may be immediately



Page 545


CAPT. BIRD TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

545

sent to Michilmackinac if the navigation should be open to assist in building the new Fort. I was surprised to see by Major De Peyster's letter of the 6th Instant, that the detachment so much wanted for the above mentioned essential purpose was not ye.t sent to Michilimackinac. He has a garrison of 390 men Captain Bird was between him & the Possibility of an attack, and his Post is so respectable that I am persuaded He could with even 100 men defend it against any number in Mr. Clarke's power to shew him Major De Peyster has been informed of the impossibility in the present situation of affairs of sending troops from hence -it is necessary to keep you strong at Niagara not for the purpose of defending the place, but in waiting for what I informed you I had in view, yet the Major continues to apply to you for a Reinforcement. There is not a doubt that had the Indians resolutely determined to oppose the Incursions of the Rebels they might have done it & could still beat them off, but if they will not defend their own country they must wait patiently untill it shall be more convenient to send them powerful assistance. Whenever Major De Peyster may think it necessary to send a Detachment with them-100 or 150 of the most inactive men are surely enough to garrison the new Fort. The words Reinforcements & Provisions are easily pronounced & applied to our several situations but the whole must be considered, and if the good of the whole is not consonant with the convenience of particulars, it is to be regretted but cannot be remidied except by that Military Principle of turning all that occurs to the best advantage which from Major De Peysters character, no officer can be more desirous or more capable of doing. -I am, &c. [signed] F. H. [B 96-2, p 147] CAPT. HENRY BIRD TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. Extract of a Letter from Capt. Bird to Major De Peyster dated Ottawa Village first Landing on the Glaize. 24th July 1780. "Grey arrived here this day, we have made out so far very well, having left the Forks within a day's march of the Fort we took the first of July, and with fourteen days hard working arrived at the Standing Stone, which is an hundred and twenty miles against a very bad and rappid River. All the other delays were occasioned, by the Transportation of the Artillery Stores &c. which we have got to Mons' 69



Page 546


546

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Lorimiers by going and returning with the few horses Capt Hare brought us. The Provisions we had were of infinite service-three days after we arrived at the Standing Stone our Provisions were out. His stock will serve us to the entrance of the Miamis, where your goodness, Sir, has provided for us. The Waters are so low they will not furnish sufficient for a Bark Canoe within 50 miles of Mons' Lorimiers. I have left the Bombardiers Robinson, Crow & Gallougher, who stay "Volunteers with the guns-untill rains make the waters sufficient for their transportation, there are two paragues here for them. Col. Clarke arrived within a day or so of the time I marked for his certain arrival. Capt. Hinxon who made his escape from us, had candour sufficient to tell Col. Clarke, he and the Prisoners were treated in so different a manner from what they expected, that had not his Family been at the Falls, he would have preferred going with us to Detroit. I have much news from the private conversation with the Prisoners, and other means, respecting the situation of the country, their Force and manner of making Levies &c. &c many of the Prisoners would not take the oath to Congress, I don't believe we have more than two Families really Rebels, their names McGuire and Mahon-the rest are composed of good Farmers with extreme industrious Families who are desirous of being settled in Detroit with some Land. They fled, they say, from persecution, & declare if Government will assist them to get them on foot as Farmers, they will, as Militia, faithfully defend the country that affords them protection. [B 100, p 436] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC 24th July 1780. SIR I received your letter of the 2nd Instant by Major Lernoult covering copies of Letters from Capt. Bird & Mr. McKee and the character of Harper the Rebel prisoner. From those letters there appears no doubt of Capt. Bird's success except from the Fickleness of the Indians and their aversion to controul, for these reasons, I confess I cannot help being anxious about Him and shall wait with impatience to hear the result of his enterprize. Lieut. Gov' Sinclair informs me, by a letter of the 8th Inst. that he has sent parties from the west side of Lake Michigan to cross



Page 547


LT. COL. CAMPBELL TO CAPT. MATHEWS.

547

the roads leading from the Rebel Posts on the Ohio and Wabash rivers to the Illinois to cover Capt. Bird and to intercept Convoys of Provisions or parties of the Rebels occasionally in motion from either. quarter and from latter accounts from St. Joseph's of difficulties likely to occur to Capt. Bird. He sent off parties to the plains. I hope all these will be serviceable to him. Mr. Sinclair likewise informs me that he has engaged three men for a twelve month to serve as Couriers between Michilimackinac and Niagara, by way of the head of Lake Ontario. By this means a frequent and expeditious communication will be kept up between those Posts and with Head Quarters. Mr. Harper shall be kept in close confinement. No prisoners (men) a very few old and insignificant excepted, are exchanged from this army, But if it should happen Harper shall not be of the number. I am, Sir &c [signed] ' FRED HALDIMAND. To Lieut Colonel Bolton at Niagara [B 104, p 146] LIEUT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. MONTREAL the 24h July 1780 SIR, Please to acquaint the Commander in Chief that the goods for Ind" Presents sent to Michilimakinac in May last was nearly expended on the 8h Inst and that Lt. Governor Sinclair writes me of that date in a preying manner for a Large & speedy supply for which I wait His Excellency's commands. That the Engages who were up last at Michilimakinac are making a great clamour for their having been detained there twenty eight days at work without their having any consideration for their Labour, I wish it may not hurt the service after this-If they are not allowed some trifle I am with great regard Sir Your most obdt & most humble Servant JOHN CAMPBELL Lt. Governor Sinclair has not wrote one word to me about those people perhaps he forgot it. J. CAMPBELL From A 1740 Lt. Col. Campbell 24h July Reed 26th [B 111, p 173]



Page 548


548

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC 27h July 1780 SIR, Having had the Honor to lay before His Excellency the Commander in Chief your Letter of the 24h Instant, I am directed to acquaint you with His Excellency's desire that you will as soon as possible compleat the Quantity of Indian Presents required by Lieutenant governor Sinclair for the Post of Michilimackinac. Lieut Governor Sinclair has not in any of his Letters, mentioned to the General having detained the Engages to work, the service has, of course required it, but you may assure them that His Excellency will write upon the subject to Mr. Sinclair desiring they may be recompensed. I am Sir &c [signed] R. MATHEWS Lt. Col. Campbell [B 113, p 99J THOMAS BENTLEY TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. SIR I hope you will be pleased to excuse my troubling you from this quarter as I 'cannot omit this opportunity of informing you of my safe return to this country. Finding that all my efforts to procure a pass were ineffectual I was reduced to the disagreeable necessity of trusting to the woods for my escape which I effected tho in a season very unfavourable to my designs I left Canada with a full intention of revenging myself on Gov' Haldimand, But I was no sooner at liberty than I forgot my animosity looking upon him only as a secondary cause influenced by the evil machinations of Rocheblave in conjunction with a corv6e who were inspired with no other motives than those of envy and most inveterate malice to defame my character and bring my affairs to destruction which I am sorry to say they have fully effected in so much that it will be difficult for me to recover myself from the difficulties which the unhappy effects of this malice have subjected me to. I waited on Gov' Hamilton in the Jail at Williamsburgh and made him a tender of my services, he thanked me saying he did not expect any alteration in his circumstances but what the fate of arms might give him he expiated much on the manner of losing Post Vinc nt saying he was betray'd in the basest manner by the French People of the place. Mr. Dejean being desirous of coming here I applied in his favor to the general and council of Virginia. My suffer

Page 549


P. DEJEAN TO COMMANDER AT DETROIT.

549

ings gave me some claim to their attention. I was the means of procuring permission to come to this country. Colonel Montgomery who commands in Colonel Clark's absence has given him permission to send for Mr. Dejean. Notwithstanding that I am out of reach of persecution I still wish to assure you that Rocheblave's accusation of me was false & I was made a prey to malice of the deepest Hue; this I beg you will acquaint General Haldimand of, who I hope from his former knowledge of me at Pensacola is still my friend and that he will impute my abrupt departure from Canada to no other cause than my great anxiety to join my affairs at the Illinois which I had reason to think were going wrong on account of my long absence and which I unhappily found to be the case, nor is there any remedy left me but patience: I have the honor to be Sir Your very obedt. POST VINOENNES & hble Servt 28 July 1780 T. BENTLEY. At. Schuyler De Peyster Esq Endorsed From Mr. Bentley to Major De Peyster dated Post Vincennes 28h July 1780 [B 185-1, p 54] P. DEJEAN TO COMMANDANT AT DETROIT. [Translation] I am at last rid of my chains; but I am prohibited from going to Detroit, you will see by the letter which I have the honor to send you, I am here on my parole of honor, not having been willing to take the oath; Moreover, knowing very well the feeling of the House of Commons at London & of the advocates of the Province of Quebec on this subject I thought it better to wait until Governor Hamilton had been in England to get the rights he says he has, than to expose myself to be his victim. The only thing in which I can reproach myself is in having too blindly obeyed his orders. I flatter myself that if the affair had been conducted according to the real tenor of the law he only would be to blame, but I see with pain & chagrin the contrary & am obliged to exile myself from my family for another's faults. In my deplorable situation I would like to send for Madame Dejean & my family, one of the inhabitants goes there & I have determined to write to him. Hoping that you will have the goodness to let him come & provide him with the necessaries for the Journey. I also ask



Page 550


550

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

you (in case they leave) to give notice to the Indians by their interpreters that it is by your permission that they leave Detroit & that they are not to be molested. I fear the Poutawatamies principally. You will find subjoined the parole of honor which I have accepted to get rid of my chains which is the same as those signed by General Phillips & General Hamilton. The Governor & Mr. Hay have extremely maltreated me on this subject (in spite of all I have done for them) they have refused to assist me which has reduced me to the direst necessity. I have done my utmost to induce them to accept their parole to get out of prison being of no use to their country in a most abominable place, but Mr. Hay (who believes himself a torch of wisdom) has prevented them; (I hope with just cause) though he is the cause of all the miseries of our governor & ourselves. I will not enter into a long detail on this subject. The gentlemen who were on the expedition to St. Vincennes are able to certify to what I have stated. As to my affairs at Detroit Mr. Macomb (who is my attorney) will arrange them. I hope that you will have the goodness to let Madame Dejean with her family & household come & believe me with respect Sir Your very humble & obedient servant P. DEJEAN ST. VINCENNES 28th July 1780 [B 73, p 153] P. DEJEAN TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAMD. [Translation.] SIR I have at last (through the sollicitation of Mr. Benthley, who has rendered me great service) obtained permission to come here; but you will see by the letter which the commandant will send you that I did not fear to go to Detroit; moreover being told that the House of Commons at London, advocates of the Province of Quebec & the Grand Jury charged me with the faults of Governor Hamilton (if he has made any, or if by obedience to orders I have, I will wait till he has been in England to get his rights, not willing after having been in chains for one hundred and twenty nine days at Williamsburg) to be his victim. I hai- also asked the commandant that he will be good



Page 551


JOHN ASKIN TO NATHANIEL DAY.

551

enough to send the parole which I have accepted, you may Judge yourself if in signing it I have failed in my duty, moreover General Philips & General Hamilton have signed similar ones. After Capt. Lamothe & myself accepted the parole, he refused to assist us, saying that before leaving the prison, we would have due notice of what road help would come from. I have written to the commandant at Detroit to see if he would be good enough to allow Madame Dejean to come & Join me with the children, as a hard necessity after my sufferings. Circumstances of the times & my present situation prevent my saying more. I have the honor to be, with very profound respect Sir Your very humble & very obedient servant ST VINCENNES P. DEJEAN 28h July 1780 [,B 73, p 151] JOHN ASKIN TO NATHANIEL DAY. MICHILIMACKINAC July 29h SIR 1780 Since the 27h April last, the time that I was dismissed the service, I have repeatedly made applications for permission to go down to Quebec, and settle my accounts, agreeable to the Tenor of my Bond; a vessel is just arrived from Detroit, I have this morning made application, and received the following answer vizt.-Mr. Askin must "wait "Genl. Haldimand's pleasure here, and it will be very necessary for "Mr. Askin to send for a coppy of all complaints against the Lieut " Governor, in order to have them proved here, if he has not got them "here in writing and faithfull coppies"-The latter part of this answer I do not understand, but as my situation is the most disagreeable I ever was in, added to my being out of business and living at a great expense. I most humbly request that you will be pleased to take the earliest opportunity of representing my situation to His Excellencyr Genl. Haldimand, so that I may have the liberty of going down the country to settle my Public Accounts, and answer any accusations that may be laid against me, and as my provision accounts of last year with Mr. Fleming at Detroit remain unsettled (owing I think to his Payment to me being detained) as well as some private matters of consequence to me, I hope you'll be pleased to obtain permission from



Page 552


552

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

His Excellency General Haldimand to go down that way, which I otherwise have reason to suppose will be refused meI am with all possible respect SirYour most obedient very humble Servant JOHN ASKIN Endorsed:From Mr. J. Askin late Commissary at Michilimackinac to Nathl. Day Esqr Commy. Genl. Dated July 29h 1780 recd 1st Sept N: B. Copy sent Lieut Governor Sinclair same date [B 191, p 127] LIEUT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. MONTREAL the 1st August SIR 1780. I have received the favour of yours communicating the Commander in Chief's desire of having the Ind" Presents for Lt. Governor Sinclair compleated as soon as possible. Please to acquaint His Excellency that everything will be ready to sett out from Lachine Bay by the 12th Inst. at farthest, except the Engage's Mr. St George can not promise when he can find them, from the detention D. B. of the last at Michilimakinac, contrary to the Terms.of their Engagements, without any Recompence. I request the General will this time give his orders that His Engages for the Kings Service shall not be detained any longer than is usually necessary for their delivering the goods &ca. But that shall it be necessary for the service to stop them any longer that they are to be paid according to the time they shall be detained, these are the conditions I have desired Mr. St. George to propose to those who are capable of undertaking the voyage. I am with great Regard Sir Captn. Mathews &c. Your most obedient and Head Quarters most humble Servant Quebec JOHN CAMPBELL From A 178 Lt. Col. Campbell 31st July reed 2nd Augt. [B 111, p 174] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN CAIMPBELL. SIR Aug 3 1780 I have had the Honor to lay your Letter of the 1st Instant before



Page 553


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

553

His Excellency General Haldimand and am commanded to acquaint you that he approves of the Terms you propose in favor of the Engagees to be employed in transporting the Indian Presents to Michilimackinac, and will write to Lieutenant Qovernor Sinclair to that effect depending upon the Canoes setting off about the 12h. His Excellency Dispatch for Michilimackinac will be forwarded to you by the Post from hence the 10h Instant. I am Sir &c Lieutenant Colonel Campbell [signed] R. MATHEWS Montreal [B 113, p 100] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT Augt. 4h 1780 SIR, I have the pleasure to acquaint you that Captain Bird arrived here this morning with about one Hundred and fifty Prisoners, mostly Germans who speak English, the remainder coming in-for in spite of all his endeavours to prevent it the Indians broke into their Forts and seized many-the whole will amount to about three hundred & fifty. Their chief desire is to remain & settle at this place as you will see by the enclosed Letter, received two days ago from Captain Bird which I now send to give you my opinion of those People, thirteen have entered into the Rangers and many more will enter as the Prisoners are greatly fatigued with travelling so far, some sick and some wounded. I shall defer sending them down least it be attended with bad consequences, the remainder to save Provisions, I shall distribute in different Farm Houses to help in the Harvest-in the mean time we shall be able to know His Excellency's Pleasure upon the subject, should it be approved to settle them. I have a grant from the whole Pottawatimis Nation of Five Thousand Acres of excellent Land upon the River from near the River Rouge to the Pottawatimis Village, exclusive of other Lands heretofore granted to different People, which they are desirous to have settled. In a former Letter to the Commander in Chief I observed that it would be dangerous having so many Prisoners here, but I then thought those small Forts were occupied by a different set of People. I have the Honor to be Sir Your most obedient most humble servant AT. S. DE PEYSTER 70



Page 554


554

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

SCol. Bolton P. S. Please excuse the hurry of this Letter, the Indians engross my time. We have more here than enough. Were it not absolutely necessary to keep in with them, they would tire my patience. [B 100, p 441] INTELLIGENCE FROM JOHN CLAIRY AN AMERICAN DESERTER. DETROIT Augt 51- 1780 Intelligence received from John Clairy alias Clarke, a Deserter from the Rebels upon Kentucky in 12 days from Logan's Fort. That the said Clairy left a detachment of the Enemy consisting of Two hundred & fifty men upon their march towards Licking Fort, under the command of a Colonel Logan, and that the same morning an Express arrived from Col. Clarke, who commands at the Falls, desiring the said Colonel Logan to meet him at the mouth of Licking Creek with all the Force he could raise, by the last day of Julyfrom whence they would march across the country by Land to the Shawanese Towns. Several Stations had not then joined Col. Logan, viz. Bryans, Tods, Lexington, Strouds & Boons which collected would make Colonel Logan's Party about Four hundred men, & when added to those coming from the Falls with Col. Clarke, will make the whole Force coming out against the Indians amount to about eight hundred men, and he further adds, that the same morning a letter was received Sfrom General Broadhead, that it was out of his power to afford them any assistance from Fort Pitt, that therefore they must depend upon themselves.. It was reported however that Colonel Crocket was advancing toward the mouth of the Great Kanhawa with about 300 men & 500 head of cattle, to guard the south side of the Ohio. The Informant being asked what cannon the enemy could bring with them, reply'd as follows That it was reported amongst some men who had served under Colonel Clarke that he would bring with him one Brass Six Pounder and two Iron four Pounders. The Deponent being duly sworn upon the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God, declareth the whole to be the Truth as above related, to the best of his knowledge. his [signed] JOHN X CLAIRY mark [B 100, p 443]



Page 555


CAPT. SCHANKS TO CAPT. GRANT.

555

MAJOR ARENT S DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. Extract of a Letter from Major De Peyster to Lieut Col. Bolton dated at -_ DETROIT Augt 6h 1780 The inclosed Information I took after the Gage sail'd. The Indians are much alarmed at it, especially as all their Chiefs, with some of their principal warriors, are now on the way here, to listen to Col. Johnson's speech, sent by Kayoshta. This afternoon or to morrow morning the Indians here will assemble in Council, as There are some "Mingoes, Delawares & Shawanese already arrived. I am convinced they will call upon me for assistance. The Troops Just arrived are much fatigued & you know this garrison is very weak. The Company of Rangers will be trifling without a Detachment of Soldiers. The Canadians Captain Bird declares are not worth sending, except upon Corv6e-still something must be done, if the Indians insist upon it. In this situation I will not send a Detachment to Michilimackinac, till I receive your Further orders, which I hope will be accompanied with a Reinforcement. iAs no Vessel is yet arrived from Michilimackinac, I should at any rate be at a Loss for a conveyance to send a Detachment, unless I was to break off the Dunmore from bringing Provisions. [B 100, p 445] CAPT. JOHN SCHANKS TO CAPT. ALEX. GRANT. From Captain Schanks to Captain Grant QUEBEC 10h August 1780 His Excellency the Commander in Chief has thought proper to give me directions that two of the Vessels under your Command be delivered over to Lieut Govr. Sinclair at Michilimackinac, and as one of those Vessels is to be a Vessel of Force, the other to be a smaller & suitable for the navigation between that Post and Detroit. The two to be fitted is the Hope and Wellcome, which you'll please fitt from the other Vessels in the best manner you can giving them a proportion of all kinds of Stores you have, for one year. His Excellency desires you give the Commanders of those Vessels a copy of all the instructions, both with respect to the muster and provision, as also extracts from yours and the naval Storekeeper, for the better regulation of those vessels &c. &c. B 100, 448[Signed] JOHN SOHANKS [B 100, p 448]



Page 556


556

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

CAPT. ALEX. GRANT. TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. From Captain Grant to Colonel Bolton. SIR, On the arrival of the Dunmore I received the enclosed from Capt. Schanks, the contents of which I make no doubt will surprise you. That two of our best vessels will be entirely taken from the Transportation of Provisions, Stores &c. to the upper Posts, which service can hardly be now performed with all the vessels we have. The Hope you know is one of our burthensome vessels. The welcome though alloted before to the Post of Mackina, The Sloop Felicity was detained in her stead. Be assured we shall have the transportation to Mackina with the remainder of the vessels, which can never do with keeping two Vessels under the Rapids-which would be of more use to the King's service than lying at Anchor before Mackina, transporting Hay &c. no reinforcement of seamen or artificers to build more Vessels. You would think prudence would induce the Commissioner to point out to the general referring sending those cruizing Vessels to Mackina, till they were replaced by others. I can stake my veracity and twenty one years knowledge of. the Lakes to His Excellency, That the Sloop Welcome answers all the end of a vessel of War at Mackina, as the Great Fleet of England would-particularly as the Channel is open for all our Vessels to run there, whenever there is occasion. I think it my duty to represent these matters to you, and your further direction I should be glad to have-we want Cables[signed] ALEX GRANT [B 100, p 449] LIEUT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. MONTREAL the 10h August SIR 1780 Agreeable to the Commander in Chief's desire communicated to me By your Letter of the 24h Last Month, I now Inclose you a Return of the Negroes brought in by the Indians & sold to the Inhabitants of Montreal and others, which you will please to Lay before His Excellency. 'You will please to acquaint the General that the Ind" Presents for Michilimackinac will be all at Lachine to morrow by twelve o'clock



Page 557


GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

557

and that the engagees for that service, I mean for the transport of the same are compleat all to two men. I am with great regard Sir Your most obt. and most humble Servant JOHN CAMPBELL P. S. Mons. Cliancour with the Caughniwaga Indns & others were gone on a scout to the Miohawke River Before my Letter to recall them Reached Oswegatchie J. CAMPBELL From 1780 Lient Col. Campbell 10h August Reed 14h Inclosing a List of Negroes purchased from Indians. [B 111, p 176] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC 10h August 1780 SIR, I am commanded by His Excellency Genl Haldimand to transmit to you the dispatch you will receive for Lieut Governor Sinclair to be forwarded to Michilimackinac by the Canoes which are to convey the Indian Presents. His Excellency hopes they will be ready to sett out the 12th and desires you will give the Person who will have charge of them particular Instructions to make all possible dispatch. I am Sir &c Lieut Colonel Campbell [signed] R. MATHEWS Montreal [B 113, p 101] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAMD TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC 10th Augugt SIR 1780 Your Letter of the 15th ultimo with copies of Letters from Major De Peyster &c. & some papers intercepted upon the Ohio I received the 26th. That part of the Major's Letter relating to the attacks made upon the Spanish settlement and their miscarriage, I had been informed of by Lieut Govr Sinclair and likewise of the hostilities commenced between the Indians of St. Joseph and those in the neighbourhood of Post Vincennes. Lieut. Govr Sinclair is exerting his best endeavours to put a stop to that evil in its infancy and I am persuaded Major de Peyster will be equally industrious to effect it.



Page 558


558

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

His wishes for a reinforcement of Troops, it is impossible for me to gratify, uncertain of the occasion there may be for them else where and at this advanced season of the year still without provisions and ignorant when a supply may arrive. In regard to the Poutawatamis discontent about their Traders being removed & desiring to know the reason, They must be informed that whatever changes are made are made by my direction and calculated as well for their happiness and prosperity as for the good of the King's service, this matter will be fully explained to them by Lieut. Govr Sinclair in whose more immediate care they are, St. Josephs being more dependant on the Post of Michilimackinac Major De Peyster's answer to them was very proper. You will signify to him the purpose of this letter and recommend to him a continuance of his attention to reconcile them as far as it may depend upon his situation. The Pottawatimies until very lately indeed have had but slight pretentions to our Protection or to demand reasons for what is done, further proofs of their sincerity & activity are still wanting & will be very acceptable, care will be taken to encourage their services and to reward them and whoever may be employed on these occasions will always be cordially received by them & will never fail to possess influence amongst them. I am Sir &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Lt. Col. Bolton [B 104, p 150] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC 10h Angust SIB 1780. I have received your Letter of the 25h Ultimo covering copies of Letters from Lieut Governor Sinclair and Capt. Bird. I am concerned that the success which Capt Bird's active endeavours bid so fair for, should have been rendered so incompleat by the fickleness of the Indians whose conduct in this affair merits rather severe



Page 559


CAPT. SCHANK TO CAPT. GRANT.

559

reproach than the presents they will look for, on this subject I refer you to my letter of this date and one to Major De Peyster. You may assure Lieut Gov. Sinclair of every supply and assistance circumstances will admit of, more cannot be done or expected, I purpose having one or two small vessels stationed at Michilimackinac entirely dependent on the Post, without which he must always be subject to some inconveniency they will at this time be particularly usefull and give respect to the Post, while it is establishing upon the Island. You will please therefore that the Hope and Welcome be sent from Detroit for that purpose. Capt. Schank will write upon this subject to Capt Grant. Lieut Col. Bolton I am Sir &c at Niagara [signed] FRED HALDIMAND [104, p 148] OAPT. JOHN SCHANK TO CAPT. ALEX. GRANT. QUEBEC 10th August 1780 DEAR SIR His Excellency the Commander in Chief has thought proper to give me directions, that two of the vessels under your command, be delivered over to Lieut Governor Sinclair of Michilimackinac, & as one of the Vessels is to be a Vessel of Force, the other to be smaller & suitable for the navigation between that Post & Detroit, the two to be fitted is the Hope & Welcome, which you'll please fitt from the other Vessels in the best manner you can giving them a proportion of all kinds of stores you have for one year. His Excellency desires you give the Commander of those Vessels a copy of all the Instructions both with respect to the musters & Provision as also extracts from yours & the Naval Store Keepers for the better regulation of those Vessels & you will please to transmit to Lieut Governor Sinclair copys of His Excellency's letters concerning the Naval Department of the 5h 7h 10h 11th & 12th of October 1779, to the end that he may truly understand the naval Regulations. I am Sir Your most obedt. Hum. Servant To Alex Grant JOHN SOHANK Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from Commissioner Sohank to Gr Grant. 10h August 1780 [B 145, p 16],



Page 560


560

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

THOMAS BENTLEY TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. ONYAH the 12 Augt SIR 1780 I beg leave to refer you to what I have already wrote you on the sabject of Mr. Dejean. I beg the favor of you after perusing the enclosed to address and forward it to General Haldimand; As I wish to remit to Canada as well as to draw off from this country, I propose sending Boats up this River to Detroit as well as the Illinois River for Maimac next spring I cou'd wish for that purpose if it does not clash with the service that the Savages might be requested not to molest any boats going up those rivers for the purpose of conveying Remittance which I hope and doubt not you will think reasonable. If the General or yourself should do me the honor to write me wish you would address it in a fictitious name & send it by a person of confidence to be delivered only to myself. It is reported here that Canada is attacked by a French fleet. If it is likely to fall (which I hope will never be,the case) beg of you to destroy these letters. I have the mortification to inform that Rocheblave's malice has ruined me (irretrievably I fear) and tho my misfortunes originated with you yet I do not blame you. If you will be pleased to put me in the way of recovering myself at Detroit which you now have in your power to do I will repair to you on your sending me proper guides but it must be in the Merchantile Line as I could not pay my debts and recover my lost fortune by any other means. I have the honor to be with real respect Sir Your very obedient & hble Servant T. BENTLY. I shall winter at Kaskaskias. I beg this may not be talked of in case of any deserters from you that might inform of me. Mejor De Peyster Esq. Commander Detroit Endorsed:-Art. Schuyler De Peyster. Commander Detroit. From Mr. Bentley to Major De Peyster Date Onyath 12th August 1780. [B 185-1, p 56] THOMAS BENTLEY TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. ONYAH the 12th August 1780. SIR I have come 160 leagues from the Illinois through a country every where exposed to Indian War Parties purposely to debarasse me from



Page 561


THOMAS BENTLEY TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

561

that veil of calumny which was thrown upon my character by Rocheblave Corv6e and others who had no other views than those of envy and malice of the deepest Dye to stigmatise my character atd blast my fame to the end that I might be removed from a country where the flourishing state of my affairs and the preference which some of the savage nations showed me rendered me an eye sore to them in the trade and consequently an object (if possible) to be removed at all events. I knew their plot before I left the Illinois but conscious of my innocence I went undismayed resting my safety on that alone. I was unhappily mistaken you know the rest. My affairs have been totally ruined by my absence and all my property in a manner has gone to rack. Still, Sir, I am happy to have the opportunity to assure you that I am no enemy to my country on the contrary I am and ever shall entertain a warm attachment thereto and its interests so long as God shall bless me with Life. Tis true that vexations at all the treatment I met with whilst I was in Canada (being informed all the time of the destruction of my property at home) enraged me to say many things foreign to my thoughts and which woi4uld no doubt construed to my disadvantage. The proposals I had the honor to make you when last I had the pleasure of seeing you repeated to you likewise by my friend Mr. FarguLes you will please to reject, imagining them offered as inducement for my liberty, these I now beg to reiterate to you thrice happy on the occasion to convince you I am not the wretch I was represented you to be. Was it not that my presence was required to endeavour if possible to repair my broken fortunes and the small encouragement I had to hope for from my usage in Canada I should have already gone back to Detroit; my conjugal ties (which with my property composed all that was dear to me in these countries) being defiled and broken indessolubly by my absence there remains little to engage my stay in the country nothing in competition to joining my country if I can be of use and doing justice to my connections. If therefore I can be of service to you and that I can be assured of your favor to assist me to reistablish my broken fortunes. You have only to acquaint me thro' the channel of Major De Peyster and I will endeavor to quit my affairs if possible, which are considerable still, being widely dispersed and shall from this time contract them for that purpose. I cannot conclude this without informing you that if you wish to possess the Illinois and Post Vincennes you may easily accomplish it. The Inhabitants discontented with the Americans will not resist regular Troops, savages they ever will, fearing their cruelties Three hundred soldiers to come down the Illinois river would easily pos71



Page 562


562

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

sess themselves of the whole of the Illinois country Spaniards and others. This certainly be an object worthy the attention of Great'Britain, as it would add the Missouri trade which is of itself consequential as well as the Savage interest dependent thereon who being very numerous might be rendered,of great account & would of course be very valuable acquisitions. A hundred regulars would easily possess themselves of post Vincennes. Lieut Gov' Abbott being much esteemed in this country an expedition would be easily carried out to the lower parts of the Mississippi, and with the assistance of 1,000 men annex New Orleans to the Empire. It may not be unnecessary to inform you that the Illinois settlements could victual a settlement of 300 men throughout the year I have the honor to be Sir with all due respect Your very obedt & hble Servt His Excelly Fred. Haldimand Esq. T. BENTLEY Endorsed:-From Mr. Bentley H. H. S. Gen. Haldimand dated Onyah 12th August 1780 [B 185-1, p 58] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN. QUEBEC 16h Augt 1780 SIR The opportunities by which I had the Pleasure of acknowledging your favours of the 15h & 31st May. being very uncertain I herewith transmit Duplicates of my Letters. You will perceive my reason for detaining Lt. Clinch, the news he bears (if not already communicated) will induce you to excuse my having taken that Liberty. The Inclosed Intelligence I received two days ago from a Mr. Man who has served from the beginning of the War in a Corps of Loyalists & often distinguished himself by his activity, I have no reason to doubt that part of it, to which he affirms he was an eye witness, but the most essential concerning Sir George Rodney's success he relates from Report & may perhaps want confirmation. Not having heard that the Fleet which threatened a stroke of some importance upon the Coast, has anywhere appeared, and thinking it likely that the ships said to have put into Rhode Island and Chesapeak Bay in distress, may be a part of it, little remains to be apprehended



Page 563


THOMAS BENTLEY TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

563

from their attempts particularly as our Naval force is become so superior by the arrival of Admiral Graves. A part of the Trade Fleet to this Province is arrived under convoy of two frigates by which I have received dispatches which do not contain any important news. Your easier and more frequent intercourse with Europe renders it unnecessary to mention any thing from thence. Affairs in the Indian Country are prosperous. The Oneida Indians who have been hitherto influenced by them have at length seen their error and relinquished their cause, by Joining their confederate nations in War Parties against the Enemy fitted out against the Enemy. A Detach' sent from Detroit to cheque the encroachment of the Virginians upon the Indian Country has destroyed some of their Forts & taken near 400 Prisoners. It is certain that a force consisting of Troops and Musqueto Indians, amounting to about 1500 men left Jamaica last January & crossed to Nagaraqua Lake in order to attack Leon-5 or 600 men under Lt. Col. Campbell were to reinforce this little Army in the month of April & an expedition of greater import Commanded by Gen: Dalling was soon to be undertaken. Those parts being weakly manned, and in a poor state of defence, it is to be hoped something of consequence will be effected against the Spaniards who so richly merit correction. Lieut Clinche's Expenses to this date have been discharged, I shall chearfully remit to whoever you may be pleased to order to receive it. I am &c [signed] FRED: HALDIMAND Brig Genl. Maclean Endorsed. Copy 1780. To Brig. Genl. Maclean commandg. at Halifax of the 16h August. [B 150, p 78] THOMAS BENTLEY TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. POST VINCENNNES SIR 17h Augt 1780 Since my return to this place I have been informed that Belts have been sent off from this to the Shawanese and other Nations by the French Colonel who came here about a month ago which Belts from what I can understand import that the Savages should remain quiet and not go to war any longer, as the French are coming again amongst them, who are to drive both the Americans anid English out of the Country and are to possess themselves of Canada & its dependencies and I am well informed that other French emissaries have been sent



Page 564


564

iHALDIMAND PAPERS.

to different nations probably for the same purpose thinking that this might be interesting for you to know have thought it necessary to give you this Intelligence. The great injustice done me by Rocheblave and others & the losses to which that has subjected me it induces me to hope that you would be kind enough to permit Messrs. Macombes to send me a few Bales of goods this Fall as it would be the means of enabling me to recover myself in some manner from the heavy losses I sustained during my detention in Canada. You may rest assured that the goods will not be made a bad use of being intended for the Savages and Inhabitants only & I can moreover inform you that the Savages and inhabitants are so discontented with the Americans both here and at Illinois that regular Troops would be received with open arms particularly if runners were sent before to assure the inhabitants that no evil would befall them. I cou'd wish to communicate anything essential for you to know from this but I shall be fearful to write. If Messrs. Macombes send me any goods you can easily convey a letter in a piece of goods marking the piece in the invoice with a X signifying therein in what manner I can be of use and you may depend upon every thing in my power. By the Batteaus Just arrived from New Orleans we are informed the Spaniards have taken Mobille (a place of no consequence) But they had not yet attacked Pensacola: Don Galvez the general had some disagreement with the Admiral of the squadron which cause the latter to quit the Expedition and return to the Havannah. I sincerely hope they will not succeed against Pensacola. If an expedition of 3,000 men could be sent by way of Presqu' Isle they would take Fort Pitt and the Ohio communicatns leaving garrison therein and easily possess themselves of New Orleans. Give me leave most earnestly to request that you will be pleased to suffer some goods to be sent me this Fall; it will relieve the distresses of my mind which are beyond all measure great and enable me to quit the country next year. I feel most sensibly for a widow sister and six small children who looked up to me for support bereft of which by my misfortunes for these three" years past I am convinced are in want of the very necessaries of life. These call for my utmost exertions to put myself in a situation to send them some relief which depends on you alone to enable me to do. You need not be under the least apprehension whatever that such goods will fall into the hands of the Americans who I can inform you are preparing to evacuate this post in a few days & will I doubt not evacuate the Illinois altogether in the course of twelve months more. They have 100 say one hundred men at the Illinois (what they call Troops) without the least discipline,



Page 565


GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

565

badly clothed, badly fed & worse paid. You may Judge therefore how small & feeble would be their exertions against the regular TroopsFalstaff's men all. I beg leave to refer you to two Letters I have already wrote you and remain with the utmost respect. Sir Your most obedt. & very hble servt T. BENTLEY Endorsed: From Mr. Bentley Post Vincennes 17 Augt. 1780. [B 185-1, p 62] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. Colonel Bolton QUEBEC SIR, 29th Augt 1780 I have received your Letters of the 8th and 14th Inst. informing me of Joseph's success, and covering a copy of a Letter and Extracts from Major De Peyster & C" Bird. In regard to settling the prisoners from Ohio at Detroit it is so favourable to my determined scheme for agriculture, much approved and strongly recommended from home, that it must be encouraged but at the same time I should think it unsafe to permit so many of them to remain together and perhaps impolitic with respect to the Indians who are naturally jealous and suspicious, and should any bad consequence result from settling those people on their Lands, they will attribute it to design. I therefore wish to have them divided between Detroit Niagara and Carleton Island, those who remain at Detroit to be settled on Hog Island-at Niagara you will dispose of as many as the situation will admit of, and send the rest to Carleton Island, and as the season will be too far advanced for them to build after their arrival, you would do well with the assistance of Colonel Butler, to chuse proper situations and have log houses erected for them by the Rangers, and whatever men you may occasionally be able to spare from the Garrison. You will of course observe that these people must be settled in strict conformity with the regulations transmitted to you, all of them who are artificers should be employed and reasonable pay allowed them, and in communicating these instructions to Major De Peyster you will please to direct that a portion of the artificers found amongst them may be immediately sent to Michilimackinac. If the navigation should be open, to assist in building the new fort. I was surprised to see from Major De Peyster's Letter of the 6th



Page 566


566

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Instant, that a Detachment so much wanted for the above mentioned essential purpose was not yet sent to Michilimackinac. He has a Garrison of 390 men, Capt. Bird was between him and the possibility of an attack, and his post is so respectable that I am persuaded he could with 100 men defend it against any number in Mr. Clark's power to shew him. Major De Peyster has been informed of the impossibility, in the present situation of affairs of sending Troops from hence. It is necessary to keep you strong at Niagara, not for the defence of the place, but in waiting for what I informed you, I had in view, yet the Major continues to apply to you for a reinforcement. There is not a doubt that had the Indians resolutely determined to oppose the Incursions of the Rebels they might have done it and could still beat them off, but if they will not defend their own country they must wait patiently untill it shall be more convenient to send them powerful assistance, whenever Major de Peyster may think it necessary to send a detachment with them 100 or 150 of the most inactive men are surely enough to garrison the new fort. The words Reinforcement and Provision are easily pronounced and applied to our several situations, but the whole must be considered and if the good of the whole is not consonant with the convenience of Particulars it is to be regretted but cannot be remedied except by that Military principle of turning all that occurs to the best advantage, which from 'Major De Peyster's character no officer can be more desirous or capable of doing. To Lt. Col. Bolton [B 104, p 154] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT 3d Sept 1780 SIR, Enclosed you have the' Intelligence just received from the Indian Country. I cannot think that they mean an attempt on this Post. But to guard against the worst least they should intend to winter at the Settlement as reported by some of the Prisoners-I am taking every Precaution necessary, Spades Shovels and Pick Axes are much wanting, as well as proper ordnance for the new Fort. Altho' the cannon we have being in general too light, and much of it has already been returned as unfit for real service.



Page 567


LT. CdL. BOLTON TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

567

The Wellcome was loaded with Provisions for Michilimackinac but to satisfy the demands of our Indian allies have been obliged to send her to the Miamis, the Angelica sailed yesterday for M. Mackinac tho' scarce of men. I thought it prudent to send one corporal & ten privates on board of her as a guard as this Party is of Capt. Mompesson's Co. they are to remain & grenadiers return in their stead, provided the news of the Enemys advancing 'to that post proves false. I am Sir &c. Lt. Col. Bolton AT. S. DE PEYSTER. [B 100, p 453] LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDEEICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA Sept 4h 1780. SIR, Lieutenant Delgarno will have the honor to deliver this Letter to Your Excellency & I hope you will have no objection to his returning to England, by the first opportunity as it is absolutely necessary he should pay some attention to his Family affairs. I sent him down in the Fall of 1778 with Lieut Krynersley, but at that time you thought proper to order him back, as we certainly had not more officers at this Post than I might have had occasion for. Last year he never so much as reminded me once of Your Excellency's promise, knowing the situation we were in, and that the Enemy were assembling a considerable Body of Troops in our neighbour hood. He had also acted as Adjutant & Engineer & upon many other occasions given me great assistance. I therefore have not a doubt but you will grant him this favor especially too as I find by the newspapers, that both the Lieutenants who belonged to the additional Companies, are appointed Captains in the ninety first Regiment. I have the honor to enclose the Engineer & Quarter Master General's Accounts, and have drawn a Bill for the amount, the Vouchers have also been sent to Mr. Dunn. I have discharged the Master Carpenter and three others, which will lessen the expence considerably for the future. You have also, Sir, a Journal of the Party I sent to Lake Huron by the way of Toronto. A return of the work done in the Engineer's Department, with an account of sundry repairs done to the Ranger's Barracks, which I am at a loss how to discharge. Lt. Col. Butler has also sent me a Return of bedding & Utensils wanting to compleat the Ranger's Barracks,



Page 568


568

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

which Mr. Bliss informs me are not in his store to give him, as he has not more than will compleat the Barracks in this Fort. For further particulars regarding the Indians, or any Intelligence we have received, I beg leave to refer you to Lieut Delgarno, who is very capable of informing Your Excellency of all our Transactions here. I am with great Respect Sir Your Excellency's most obedt. & obliged His Excelly Humble Servt. General Haldimand MASON BOLTON P. S. I have received a letter from Major De Peystgr acquainting me that the new Fort had receive.d very considerable Damage occasioned by a most dreadful night of Thunder, Lightning and rain. At the same time he informs me that he will do his utmost to repair the works as soon as possible. I find the purchase of the Land from the Missisaguas must be delayed untill Col. Johnson has a meeting with the Chiefs of the Six Nations. We have not as yet received anything like the quantity of Flour we have occasion for at this Post or Detroit. [B 100, p 454] FRANK L. MAISTRE TO LT. COL. HENRY BOLTON. Lt. Colonel QUEBEC 4th September Bolton ' 1780. Sir I obedience to his Excellency's command I am to signify to you that he is pleased to appoint Captain Bird acting Engineer at Detroit till further orders in the room of Lieutenant Duvernet who is ordered down here. The great zeal and spirited conduct of Captain Bird upon several occasions has induced his Excellency to show him this mark of approbation, and Major Lernoult's recommendation, was with him an additional motive for this appointment Lieut Duvernet who relieves his brother is a young man of whose behaviour the General is satisfied and I am directed to say, he is inclined to serve him when an opportunity offers. I am &c [signed] F. L. M. D. A. G. [B 81, p 65]



Page 569


CAPT. LERNOULT TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

569

SIR HENRY CLINTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NEW YORK 10h September 8IR 1780. Monsieur Rocheblave who calls himself Juge et Commandant of the Illinois, and Monsieur Schifflin, first Lieut of the Detroit Volunteers, having made their escape from the Rebels, with whom they were Prisoners, and come in here entirely destitute of every necessary, and without money to buy them, I was induced to give them my warrant on the Deputy Paymaster General here for 100 guineas each, on account of the subsistence which may be due them, I am therefore to beg your Excellency will be so good to give directions to the Paymaster in Canada to stop this sum in his Hands, and surcharge himself with the amount in his account with the Paymaster General. These Gentlemen take the present opportunity of returning to Canada, and will have the honor to deliver you this Letter, with my other Dispatches. I have the Honor to be Sir Your most obedient and most humble Servant His Excellency H. CLINTON General Haldimand &c. &c. &c. Endorsed.- From 1780 Sir Henry Clinton of the 10h Sept. Received by Mr. Schieffly the 18h October. [B 147, p 236] CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. HEAD QUARTERS QUEBEC Sept. 11th 1780 Major De Peyster Sir I am directed by his Excellency the commander in chief, to desire you will send, if the time and season will permit, an equal number of Non commissioned,Officers and men from the 47th Regiment to replace those Lieut Governor St Clair shall think proper to send down from Michilimakinac to your post as there are very few Officers present with the 47th Regiment, it is not necessary to send an officer with them. I enclose His Majesty's orders relative to the Authority of Lieutenant Governor, and am to observe to you how extremely con72



Page 570


570

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

cerned the General is to find disagreement subsisting at the Post, so prejudicial to the service at all times demand the joint Efforts of every servant of the Crown to support the Service. The General is determined to inform himself fully of such disputes and not to spare those who are to blame. I have the honor to be &c [signed] R. B. L. A General [B 81, p 69] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN. QUEBEC llth Sept SIR 1780 I had the honor to receive & lay before His Excellency General. Haldimand your letter of the 7th Inst. in answer to which I am commanded to transmit to you the enclosed extract of a Letter from Lord George Germain and to acquaint you that a warrant will be sent to you for the amount of the pay you would have been entitled to as Brigadier General, had you remained in the Province which was the allowance prayed for by His Excellency. I am to signify to you His Excellencys desire that. you will order a corporal and eight men of the 84th regiment to Michilimackinac immediately, they should be active and if possible used to canoes as they will go by that conveyance up the Grand River orders are sent to Captain Sinclair to raise as many men as will compleat a company for that regiment at Michilimackinac. I am Sir &c [signed] R. MATHEWS. Brig. General Maclean [B 131, p 71] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC 12th Sept 1780 SIR By an Express from Michilimackinac I have the mortification to find that the King's service is retarded by a renewal of disputes upon the subject of rank, and that instead of the new fort and works being forwarded by the reinforcement I so early ordered from Detroit for that purpose.



Page 571


GEN. HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. BOLTON.

571

Capt. Mompesson is sent there by Major De Peyster, and his company to relieve another, from neither of which the least assistance can be obtained. To this is added a spirit of dissension and disobedience in the Troops very alarming to the service at so remote a post, and very prejudicial to the character of a Regiment of which I had conceived the most favourable sentiments. By one of the enclosed papers you will perceive that a petition from the soldiers representing grievances, has been addressed to Major de Peyster. What they were I have not learned, but it is hardly to be credited that an officer of Experience from any motives whatever could be induced so much to forget himself as to receive or what is still more extraordinary to answer petitions so irregularly made. If the Troops there had reason to think themselves agrieved, they should have represented their hardships to the Commanding officer whose duty it would have been to lay them before the Lieut Governor for redress, failing in that he should have transmitted them to you as commanding the Regiments & Posts. Major de Peyster is not ignorant of the state of Public affairs at Michilimackinac and he should have avoided encreasing the confusion and misunderstanding there by not sending Capt. Mompesson at all. If he was not acquainted that Captain Sinclair's rank in the Army was preserved to him altho' he sold his Company (which rank upon his being again employed in the.Military Line and part of the Corps he belongs to, on the spot cannot be disputed) or if he did know it by giving Capt. Mompesson the necessary Information and Instructions-and allowing that unacquainted with these circumstances you had ordered Capt. Mompesson there I am convinced you would have excused and applauded Major de Peyster for deferring a complyance untill he had given you his reasons. The endlosed Letter will instruct you with all that I have in my power to do, in this advanced season of the year. In the mean time I must desire that you will make every enquiry in your Power into the cause of this late difficulty as well as into the source of the too general misunderstanding of that post, as I am determined to search it to the bottom. Enclosed you have Copy of my order by Letter to Major De Peyster which for the sake of expedition I send by the Grand River. You will please immediately to forward your orders to that effect by the Lake, that they may have the chance of arriving while the naviga. tion is practicable from Detroit to Mackinac.



Page 572


572

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

P. S. I of course leave to your prudence and judgment to give rum, notwithstanding the order to all men employed on particular services & to encourage any of the deserving. If any of the Families brought in from the Ohio incline to go and settle at Makinac please to order that they shall be sent with the Troops, and as your order may arrive at Detroit before the men can be sent from Mackinac order off immediately 40 of the 47th Regiment with careful Serjeants. This is in all events the more necessary as the Enemy has taken post at Chikagou. Endorsed:To Lieut Col. Bolton at Niagara of 12th Sept. [B 104, p 171] OAPT. R. B. LERNOULT TO BRIG. GEN. ALLEN MACLEAN. QUEBEC Septr 12th 1780 B.G. Maclean SIR I have the honor to signify to you His Excellency General Haldimand's desire, to supply the Bearer Keys going express to Michilimakinac, by the Grand River with the party specified in Captain Mathews letter to you, if you can furnish him with Canadians, from your corps, for this purpose who are acquainted with that passage, or men accustomed to Birch Canoe, it will save the expense of taking so many Canadians from La Chine, & you can send more of them which will better answer the purpose proposed I have the honor to be &c [signed] R. B. L. A General [B 81, p 68] LT. COL. MASON BOLTON TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA Sept 13h 1780. SIR, I am extremely concerned to be obliged to trouble your Excellency with some very disagreeable letters and papers, which I have lately received, at the same time there is no doubt but you have been informed of everything that has happened at Michilimackinac, as Expresses have been sent to Montreal by way of the Grand River. I also hear that a general murmur has taken place among all Ranks of People, Indians



Page 573


BRIG. GEN. MACLEAN TO CAPT. MATHEWS.

573

not excepted. I have now only to hope that your Excellency will be pleased to order a Brigadier General up to take the command of these Posts and Lakes, as I am not able to be any longer responsible for them. My bad state of health every winter, you have been already more than once informed of this, Sir, has deprived me of the pleasure of exerting myself in that manner which I most anxiously ever wished to do. I have therefore only to lament that my power and capacity to serve my King & Country are not equal to my zeal & Inclination. Your Excellency's Letter of the 13h of last September I now beg leave to remind you of, and I have not a single doubt, but you will grant my request, which is to go to England as soon as possible, my health and circumstances absolutely require it. I have been an officer now thirty years, purchased most of my commissions, and never but once absent during that time, which favor was granted me in' the year 1764, near sixteen years ago, the season is now far advanced therefore I hope soon to receive Your Excellency's answer. Accept Sir my last acknowledgements for your many favours and believe me. with the greatest respect Your Excelleney's most obliged and most obedt. Servant His Excelly. MASON BOLTON General Haldimand. [B 100, p 461] BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. MONTREAL 14th Sept. 1780. SIR, I am favoured with both your Letters of the 11th Inst. and you may asure His Excellency that so far as regards me, nothing shall ever transpire communicated to me by him, but you will please recollect that I have already informed you in two several Letters, that the Enterprise in question was no secret to all the officers & men of Sir John's Regiment, this you may depend upon as matter of fact and for that reason I am happy I was unacquainted with it, Captains Scott and Park went off with Sir John on Monday morning last. The Corporal and eight of the 84h Regt. ordered by His Excellency to Michilimackinac shall be sent off without a moment's delay. Give me leave to return His Excellency my most sincere thanks for communicating to me the Extract of Lord George Germain's Letter,



Page 574


574

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

and to assure him that I shall always retain a grateful sense of the obligation I owe His Excellency on the occasion. I am with real Regard Sir Your most obedt. & most Humble Servt Captain Mathews ALLAN MACLEAN Endorsed: From A 1780 B. G. Maclean 14h Sept. Recd 17th [B 129, p 165] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO NATHANIEL DAY. QUEBEC 18h Sept 1780 SIR His Excellency the Commander in Chief, being informed by a Letter yesterday, from Lieut Col. Bolton, that they have not yet received any thing like the quantity that will be wanted at Niagara and Detroit for the season, I am commanded to signify to you His Excellency's desire that you will forward with all possible Dispatch the transport of that article, and communicate to Lieut Maurer the necessity for it. I am &c Nathl. Day Esq. [signed] R. MATHEWS Commissary General Endorsed: (Copy) To Nathl. Day Esq. Commissary General of 18h Sept. [B 191, p 132] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. Extracts of Letters from Major De Peyster dated at Detroit Sept 18h 1780 "The Angelica arrived yesterday from Michilimackinac I herewith forward a Letter from Capt. Mompesson. His report to me of Lieut Clowe's behavior is such, that without waiting to hear from you, I have sent Ensign McDougall to relieve him. Capt. Mompesson tells me that they have in store three years and a half Provisions for one hundred men-The wellcome was not then arrived with a load-1 now send off the Angelica with an Hundred Barrels of Rum, and the rest provisions, which will secure that Post from wanting, till I hear from you, I shall not think it prudent to send more "I am informed by an Indian Chief that Capt Hare has got the



Page 575


CAPT.'MOMPESSON TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

575

cannon with him at the Wakatamakie I am in daily expectation to hear of the motions of the Enemy. Sept. 22nd The annexed Intelligence I just received from Capt Hare & Mr McKee. In consequence of which I assembled the Indians present & am sending them off to join at Wakatamakie. I know it is in vain to hope for a Reinforcement 'till the Fleet arrives with Troops, but it is my firm opinion that a Regiment should be quartered at Detroit. [B 100, p 466] CAPT. MOMPESSON TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. Extract of a Letter from Capt. Mompesson dated at Michilimackinac Sept 20h 1780. "In'my last to you, I acquainted you how much Provisions remained in Store here, since that I hope we shall be able to get a Quantity of Indian Corn, a great part of which is arrived, and the Traders are going to Arbicrook (Arbrecroche) to trade for more-besides what I hope will be procured at Sagina by Traders. The Milwaky Indians have not brought in any, neither can a Trader be allowed to go amongst them as they are at present not behaving in a proper manner. The Sacks and Renards have taken up the Hatchet against us. [B 100, p 469] OAPT. R. B. LERNOULT TO BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN. HEAD QUARTERS QUEBEC Sept. 25th 1780 B. G. MACLEAN SIR I had the honor of your favor of the 18th inst. which I laid before His Excellency the Commander in chief who fully approves of the method you pursued in forwarding His Express to Lieutenant Governor Sinclair. I have the honor to be &c [signed] R. B. LERNOULT [B 81, p 79] A Governor.



Page 576


Report of the State & present Distribution of Powder, Small arms & ammunition &c at the several Posts in Canada October 1st 1780.

Cartridges

Flints

Mnusql

Where at

Dat~e of Return

Canned Powder Barls. lbs.

Musquot

Mnsg. with 4 Back shot in each

Carbine.

mulsquet

Carbine

EnglIbh with steel ramrods complete

nets French with out bayonets

Wall Pieces

I I I I I I I. I I

Serv

Unas.

13ev.

8ev.

8ev.

Sev.

8ev.



z Li

Detroit Hichilimackc

24 Sep 1779 31 Mrh 1780

28.50 2.50 11,000

100

1700 780

37__---------------- ------- ---- ---- --- ---- --- 2

947

5046



[B 156, p 243]



Page 577


CAPT. FRASER TO CAPT. MATHEWS.

577

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. QUEBEC 9h Oct 1780 DEAR SIR His Excellency the Commander in Chief has directed me to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter upon the disagreeable subject of Michilimackinac affairs, and to acquaint you that at present nothing more can be done than has already been directed. His Excellency desires you will give Brigadier General Powell every information and light you can into those various disputes which tend so much to injure and to destroy that happy understanding so desirable in all situations of Life I have the Honor to be [signed] F. H. The General desires the enclosed may be forwarded to Detroit (sealed) to go by Express if any should be sent. Lieut Col. Bolton. [B 104, p 180] CAPT. AL FRASER TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. CARLETON ISLAND DR SIR, 10th Octob' 1780. -I have the honor to enclose a Petition from a Prisoner at this Post to His Excellency: there are besides him two others named Edgar and Brookes, for aiding Rebel Prisoners to escape from Detroit. These People were ordered to be guarded, but I think they would be more properly kept at any other Post. Please Sir to acquaint His Excellency that twenty Indians of the Scout which I had occasion to mention in my letter of the 8th Inst. have met Sir John Johnson: As Capt. Leake (by desire of Sir John). writes what intelligence they give, I have no occasion to trouble His Excellency further on the same subject. I am Dear Sir Your most obedient and most humble Servant ALB FRASER Capt. Mathews Endorsed 1780 From Captn Fraser 10th Oct. Reed 19th. [B 127, p 195] 73



Page 578


578

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

LT. JACOB SCHIEFFELIN'S MEMORIAL TO GEN. HALDIMAND. To His Excelly. General Haldimand Gov. and Commander in Chief of the Province of Quebec, Vice Admiral of the same &c. &c. &c. The Memorial of Jacob Schieffelin Lieutenant of the Detroit Volunteers, and Secretary to the Indian Dept. Humbly Represents, That having been made prisoner with Governor Hamilton and at a great expence in effecting his escape from the Rebel Dungeon, Begs leave to throw himself under His Excellency's protection; being destititute of any employment, having quitted his partnership with a merchant at the desire of Gov. Hamilton in June 1777 and has continued End: 2 Lt. Schieflin's Memorial Oct 21, 80 [B 216, p 24] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO LT. COL. MASON BOLTON. DETROIT Oct 28h 1780. SIR, On the 26h Inst I was favored with your Letters of the 3d & 6h Enclosing orders & Letters from Head Quarters. You little expected those Letters would be Twenty Days on the way-or I am convinced you would not have imagined the order could have been put into execution, that of send non-commissioned officers & 40 Privates of the 47h Regmt. to Michilimackinac. The Hope could not be ready to sail till tomorrow or the next day, allowing the wind favorable, and it is the opinion of every reasonable person that no vessel should sail from here for M. Mackinac after the 20h of October, and that should only be on extraordinary occasions, should the wind not prove favorable for some days after this, together with the chance of calms, the Hope might not sail till some time in Novr, and not enter, Lake Huron till the middle of the month, and that with bad Cables-I have therefore;; the satisfaction to inform you that I by no means 'think an Enemy had taken Post at Chicagou, at the time the General expected-As I had late Expresses from St. Josephs which mentioned nothing of the matter, but on the contrary say that the People I sent to, have apprehended at the P6, had abandoned that Quarter. A little Sloop also arrived the 26h from Michilimackinac which brought me a Letter from Lieut Gov. Sinclair, a copy of which I herewith enclose-Wherein he makes no mention of an Enemy, nor of sending down a certain number of men to this Post. As expressed in the Adjutant General's Letterone man of the 84h only being come as a sailor to assist the Master and another hand in bringing the little Sloop Mackina to fetch Mr.



Page 579


BRIG. GEN. POWELL TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

579

Barthe to St Marys--Mr Barthe is highly sensible of the honor done him, and will freely accept of it in the Spring, but declines risking himself and his Vessel at this advanced season, being much afraid of reaching Michilimackinac in safety. The Master of the above craft declares that when he left Michilimackinac on the 16h, he had heard of no Enemy at Chicagou or any where else-that all was quiet at that Post. A Letter from Captain -.-Mbmpesson dated the 15h Mentions nothing of any Enemy. He assures us that He and the Lieut Govr. after the return of the Express from the General, were upon the best footing. Things being circumstanced as above related, I flatter myself the Commander in Chief will not be displeased to hear it is not in my power to send off the Vessel with the Troops to Michilimackinac, especially as he must be before now acquainted with the sad disaster which befell the new Fort, which requires every exertion not only of all the Troops here but an additional Corvee from the Settlement to enable us to put ourselves into a proper state of Defence-should an Enemy attempt this Post in the Spring-I have the pleasure to inform you that the Merchants of Detroit have exerted themselves upon this occasion, and that Messrs Me Gill and Me Beath, Michilimackinac Merchants, gave proofs of their Loyaltyon the above occasion. I have the Honor to be Sir Your most obt. Servt Lt, Col. Bolton. AT. S. DE PEYSTER [B 100, p 479] BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA, November 10th SIR,. 1780. I have the honor to transmit two Letters which I have received from Major De Peyster by which your.Excellency will see that the disputes in that Quarter are happily terminated. The Major also mentions that "the Rangers are returned from the Indian country, the Enemy having "abandoned the design of advancing this Fall. The Canadians being "most expert are left to bring on the cannon which cannot be done "till the rain swells the creeks." The Rangers are detained at Detroit to assist in repairing the works Capt. Hare is mentioned to have exerted himself upon every occasion. We are under great apprehensions for the Ontario which sailed from



Page 580


580

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

hence on the 31st Ulto with Colonel Bolton's being lost in the Ontario as the King's Regiment is now under my command. I think it is incumbent on me to recommend them in the strongest manner to your Protection and as they have upon some occasions when vacancies have happened in the Army been considered as not belonging to the Line. I hope they will now be looked upon in the same light, and that the Promotion will go in the Regiment. It will be impossible for Major De Peyster to send in a Memorial before the Navigation closes, but as the Adjutant General & your Secretary both belong to the King's Regiment Your Excellency can be at no loss on that account. I send a duplicate of the return which Colonel Bolton carried with him. I am Sir [signed] H. WATSON POWELL I shall send 'by this opportunity fourteen Prisoners to Montreal they are most of them women & children, a return goes with them. To H.W.P. His Excellency General Haldimand} [B 96-2, p 20] MAJOR ARENT S. DEPEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT 13th Nov 1780. S. I am sorry to acquaint you that the Sloop which sailed from hence on the 17th of Oct. with Troops on board for Michillimackinac returned here on the Instant, having met much rough weather in which she nearly escaped being lost-till I can send an Express thro' the woods Lt. Gov. Sinclair will of course think I have still neglected sending the Detachment which was not in'my power to send before. I lately received a letter from Head Quarters ordering me to send 40 men with proper non-commissioned officers of the 47h Regt to Michilimackinac but the order having been longer on the road than was expected, I could not put it into execution, the season being too far advanced. I should be glad to know if you understand the same number of the 47h Regt must be sent in the Spring, that I may lose no time in putting His Excellency's orders into execution. The Rangers are a Detachment of (sic). in lieu of two companies I represented as absolutely necessary to be at this Quarter-and I think thePost in Danger should they be drawn from here without being



Page 581


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO GEN. POWELL.

581

replaced by other Troops, as our works are still in a shattered condition from the late accident. I have the honor to be Sir &c To AT. S. DE PEYSTER B. Genl. Powell [B 100, p 485] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT 13h Nov. 1780. SIR Just as I had finished my letter to you an Express arrived from the Miamis Town with the following most extraordinary news-A Detachment of Canadians from the Illinois and Post Vincent arrived there about ten days ago, entered the Village, took the Horses, destroy'd the the Horn'd Cattle & plundered a Store I allowed to be kept there for the convenience of the Indians-who soon after assembled and attacked the Canadians led by a French Colonel whose Commission I have the honor to enclose. The Miamis receiving the fire of the Enemy had five of their Party killed, being however more resolute than Savages are in general they beat off the Enemy, killed 30 and took Colonel La Balm Pris' with his Papers, which I also enclose-I expect the Colonel in every hour. As I take it for granted that after perusal of these papers you'll forward them to the Commander in Chief. I shall not now have time to copy them a second time. Upon the alarm I ordered off the Rangers to take Post at the Miamis, to cover the Cannon which cannot be brought off till there is water. You will see this, that this Excursion was no less' than an attempt on Detroit, independant of the Rebels. I shall not say how necessary Troops are to be sent to this Garrison instead of weakening it for Michilimackinac. As I am sure His Excellency is tired of my applications on that head, especially as he has none to spare. This is however a numerous settlement & shou'd the Enemy enter it_ the Canadian Inhabitants will require good looking after, since Colonel La Balm's papers fail not to say, that the Inhabitants of Post Vincent have been invited by those of Detroit. I.have, repeatedly made Requisitions for Cannon but none yet arrived, the Cannon being mostly too short for the Embrazures, & several of them already condemned as will appear by my last returns. I have the Honor to be Your most Humble & obedt. Servant [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER



Page 582


582

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

P. S. I have open'd this Dispatch upon the arrival of Colonel La Balm's aid de camp, who says the Indians mistook him for the Colonel who was killed in the action. I forward the young man to Niagara. He appears to be a very smart young gentleman & a very intelligent one. He acknowledges their loss & says that the Col's little army consisted of Four Hundred Men, and three had only got up to engage. [B 100, p 486] JOHN MACOMBS MEMORIAL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. To His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Captain General and Governor in Chief in and over the Province of Quebec, and the Frontiers depending thereon in America General & Commander in Chief of His Majesty's Forces &c. &c. &c. The Memorial of John Macomb late of Hosack in the County of Albany and Province of New York. Sheweth That your memorialist in conjunction with his son-in-Law Lieut Francis Pfister deceased, engaged for His Majesty's Service upwards of five hundred effective men, that three hundred & eighteen did actually join General Burgoyne's Army at the head of which on the fatal 16th of August 1777 at Bennington, Mr. Pfister was killed. That your memorialists House not being more than four miles from the place of action, he was on the 17h obliged to fly to the woods where he remained suffering every species of hardship (a party of an Hundred of the Rebel Army being in pursuit of him) untill the 4h of September, when he happily joined General Burgoyne's Army at Fort Miller. That your memorialist had but just time to leave his House when the Rebels enter'd and Plunder'd it of every moveable thing also every living creature & thing out of doors to a very large amount. That in compassion to your memorialist's sufferings General Burgoyne appointed him Pay Master to all the Provincial Troops as appears by the inclosed Papers, and also the General orders of the 17h of September, with a salary of Two Hundred Pounds a year. Your Memorialist begs leave to acquaint Your Excellency that no person belonging to the Provincial Troops have so regular & ample an appointment from General Burgoyne to any office in those troops, as he has to be their Pay Master; and that no Person from the Province of New York that Joined the King's Troops under the command of General Burgoyne or Your Excellency, have done more for the Interest



Page 583


GEN. HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

583

of Government or suffered more for their attachment thereto than your memorialists Family, Sir John Johnson's only excepted. That since the 1st of August -1777 the time appointed by General Burgoyne for the commencement of the Payment of the Provincial Troops, your memorialist has received only ~49-19-10 from General Burgoyne & ~100 from Your Excellency, which leaves the sum of Four Hundred & Fifty Pounds and Twopence due to your memorialist the 1st day of this Instant, exclusive of his Rations &c. as appears by the Inclosed accounts. And as there is now a commissary of Provisions wanted at Michilimakinac, If your Excellency will be pleased to allow the Person now officiating at Detroit to go there and appoint your memorialist commissary for that garrison, he will from this time relinquish his Salary as Pay Master &c. What induces your memorialist to this is, that as all his Family are now settled at Detroit he wishes to live there with them, it is also an Employment he has also Esteemed, & he flatters himself he would give satisfaction to all concerned. All which is submitted to Your Excellency by Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servant JOHN MACOMB Endorsed:-No. 13-1780 Memorial of John Macomb Quebec August 3rd..[B'214, p 207] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC SIR November 15th 1780 I yesterday was greatly affected by receiving the news of the unfortiunate fate of Colonel Bolton &c. together with the loss of the Ontario. I immediately gave orders to Capt. Schanks to take every necessary step which may render this great loss of as little detriment as possible to the King's Service. Mr. Coleman is the bearer of this Letter to Carleton Island he has directions to repair the Haldimand & the Seneca for the earliest navigation in the Spring & then to begin a new vessel of a similar construction with the Ontario which I am taught to hope may be finished next Fall, these services will require the assistance of all the Shiprights that can be collected and consequently will make it necessary that you order, all the Shipwrights which can be spared from Detroit by the earliest convenience in the Spring to Carleton Island it

* \, i ~,'.i



Page 584


584

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

being my Intention only to keep the vessels on Lake Erie in repair & to defer building there untill the Ontario is replaced, for your further information on this head, I inclose you a copy of Mr. Coleman's Instructions. My Intelligence I have received from various quarters there is every reason to believe the Enemy will this winter employ their Emissaries to burn our Vessels and set fire to our Powder Magazines. This Persecution will therefore claim your particular attention. I am Sir &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND. ' P. S. Having appointed Capt. La Force to command the naval Department on Lake Ontario I enclose you a copy of my order to him for that purpose. Endorsed:To Brig. Genl. Powell At Niagara Nov 15th [B 104, p 183] BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA, Novr 25th 1780 SIR I have this Instant received some Dispatches fromiMajor De Peyster & have the honor to transmit for your Information, copies of his Letters, as well as the Papers which were brought in with Monsr Rhe' (Lt. Col. Le Balms aide de camp) whom I send down to Canada. Your Excellency will see it was too late in the season to send the Detachment of the 47th Regt. to Michilimackinaw, and that Major De Peyster desires to know if it is to be sent in the Spring. It is possible the Disputes being adjusted there, may induce you to make some alteration in that Disposition. " I shall therefore defer giving the Major an answer, till I know your Pleasure on that subject. I know Colonel Bolton intended to propose to you to send the 47th Regt. to relieve the King's at that Post. I have the Honor to be with great respect Your Excellency's His Excellency most obedient and ' v General Haldimand most Humble Servant [B 100, p 496] H. WATSON POWELL.



Page 585


INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING DETROIT.

585

BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. MONTREAL 4th Dec. 1780. SIR I take the liberty of inclosing you for His Excellency's Information a memorial from one Edgar that has been sent down here with a number of other Prisoners, two days ago, the crime sent against him is, for aiding ahd assisting Prisoners to make their escape at Detroit. I also inclose a note from this Prisoner to Major Lernoult, who confined Edgar and consequently can give His Excellency the necessary Information about him:-I shall be glad to receive His Excellency's commands about this affair & I have the Honor to be Sir Your most obedient and most Humble Servant Capt. Mathews ALLAN MACLEAN Endorsed: From A 1780 Brig. Genl. Maclean 4th Dec. Reed 6th Enclosing a memorial of Mr. Edgar. [B 129, p 190] INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING DETROIT. [Translation.] Supposing there is nothing to do at Detroit, part of a detachment might go to Michilimackinak to carry the goods and some prisoners, & after having given them to the Indians they might return by the Illinois River. Another party (as undermentioned) who will accompany me will go towards Sandusky thirty miles from Detroit. Charles Paris Interpreters of Old Vaudray Post Vincennes Sieur Bolon Interpreter of St. Genevieve Mons. du Bardo South Shore Put a guard over Mons. Alexis de Maisonville, Captain of Militia, a two faced man, hating the militia and a friend of England. Another guard at the Petite Cole on the same line as the CotB du Sud over Capt. Bondy. Mons Monforton to be watched, Capt Gamelin & (Campeau) a man called Campo, good Frenchmen. Sieur Benac Paulier, a good man and zealous Frenchman or failing him his brother; Sieur Isidore Chesne Interpreter for the Ottawas 74



Page 586


586

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

& Houx, (Poux) a dangerous man whom it is as necessary to know as the officers of the militia. Mess" Jauguereux two twin brothers, poor gentlemen, who lost everything for the sake of the French flag. Francois one of them, is in the service of England. Sieur Pierre Drouillard, Interpreter for the Hurons; Sieur Baby interpreter for the Loups & Shawanese. Leaving twenty French with the Sieur Letourneaux, chief with thirty savages, whom the Americans persuaded to follow their flag which he accepted from Mr. Lintot. Leaving Rocher de Bout 24 miles from Detroit where are to be found munitions of war, provisions & a trader. It is not necessary to mention the cannons that have been left in different places near this post., Where is the post at which the English have their helps for their expeditions against the Chatouinous? Sandusky 30 miles from Detroit on Lake Erie where they can have some soldiers to keep together the Chatouinous, in the upper, surrounding & grand villages. SOUTHERN DISTRICT. M. Labelle Sen', the Baubins, North & South; Mr. Mazontel Godet, father of Mr. Placy; Father Potier, a good old man speaking Huron,:(Morrisceau distrusts him); Melosche, a good Frenchman; Drouillard at the wind mill; Monferton keep an eye on as he is neither English nor honest; Baby, Merchant of the Fort; Adhemar, merchant, a dangerous man; Mr. Gregoire, English also a rascal; Navarre Sen r a false man, Antonny, worthless & Baubin a profligate. NORTHERN DISTRICT Messrs. Chacehton Merchants three quarters of a mile from the fort with whom the proud commandant some times takes his (blank) If we would invite him to dinner would find him very good company. The distances to these posts? Who are the captains of militia & their characters. On the coasts of the poux (or to the north) 1st Mr. Gamelin 2nd on the other road to the Fort James Campeaux 3rd Battiste Campeaux Jun r whose company refused to march in which he upheld them. SOUTH SHORE. How many companies of Militia are there at Detroit? 1st Alexis Maisonvill, to be hanged; 2nd Mr. Bonday whose company also refused to march in which he upheld them.



Page 587


INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING DETROIT.

587

Is the extent of the country to the south large or small that is to say the distance i't is necessary to travel to go to the houses. On the South five miles inhabited, four miles below and one above the fort. On the North three miles in extent & one mile on the shore of the Houx. After having travelled the south shore is it nct possible to cross the River at Hog Island (Isle aux Cochons) to gain the North Shore? Yes above it is. You ask where are the Americans? It is said they are in the fort. What distance can be travelled towards the fort without being seen? What are the nations & their number near Detroit who are to be feared & to whom are they attached? The Ottawas in number about 250 for us. A little Huron village within sight of the fort, who defy us & they can gain, they are supposed to be in wintering. A man Pierre Desouilliers, Huron Interpreter & Isidore Chesne is also there. Tucker, English, at the Fort, Interpreter of the Ottawas & poux. [B 184-2, p 494] INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING DETROIT. [Translation.] What is the nature & quantity of the goods at the Miamis? A thousand weight of powder and lead in proportion, arms, blankets, cloth, shirts & other goods of trade, of the value of about 50,000 Livres, all in Baubin's store kept by. Mr. Lafontaine & an old man. Another store kept by Mr. Mouton, a partner of Baubin, value about 50,000 Livres. Who are the inhabitants to whom tlley are disposed and their names & characters? Mr. Barthelemy, Mr. Rivard, Mr. Lorrance, Mr. Gouin of Detroit, Mr. Lascelle, Mr. Pottevin, Mr. Paillet, Mr. Duplessy & others, equally well disposed & an American called George, a partner of Israel, are of the party. At what posts do they trade with the goods? I say the little Fort of St. Josephs and towards Fort St Clair which is about an equal distance from thence to Detroit, that is to say about one hundred miles.



Page 588


588

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Mr. Mittal Cardinal will be good enough to take five hundred pounds of tobacco and forty bushels of maise which he will find with Sieur Etienne Buissenuit, Sieur Catara, tailor, who is written to on this subject will deliver the whole to the order which has been sent to him by Sieur Buisermit. Making four small guns, the Felicity four, the Indian (Sauvage) two small guns, armed with twelve guns, the Gage, Dunmore with ten, Le Tourneaux at the Illinois River is an important Chief. The vessel which came from Michilimakinak to carry some provisions as they arrived last autumn carried deal planks &c to Fort St. Clair 25 miles from Detroit on the right bank of the river which empties into Lake Huron at Little Lake St Clair. Mr. Tioquier of Kaaux, Mr. Bernard de Galvez, governor of Louisiana & of New Orleans. Mr. Fennoway of Pointe Coupez is dying. This is a brief picture of the evils of the unfortunate inhabitants who supplicate. Before we speak of the provisions which have been made by the inhabitants of Kaaux tp the Troops of the Virginian Republic. By the bills of exchange & other papers & by the paper money, which the Virginian officers have obliged them to accept & of which they ask the returns. The Ottawas & Sawteaux near Detroit 1000 men combined. Sauteaux, Hurons, Loups, Shawanese, Chickasaws & Kickapous & Chactas, combined. What is their total number? Hurons about 300 men the Iroquois are very numerous. Give a letter of recommendation to Mr. Conand for Mr. Dalazerne to whom is due by the State of Virginia about-60 thousand livres. Endorsed: Intelligence concerning Detroit received with Colonel La Balme's papers Quebec 4h Dec 1780 [B 184-2, p 512] MERCHANDIZE AND LIQUORS FOR DETROIT. List of the number of Batteau Loads of Merchandize and Liquors ordered by the Merchants of Detroit for 1780. (December 25, 1780.) Collin Andrews Six Batteau Load Abbott & Saunders Ten do. do. Alex Dyce Three do. do. George Meldrum Four do. do. Chapman Abram Four do. do.



Page 589


RETURN OF ORDNANCE DEMANDED IN 1779 AND 1780.

589

David White Thomas Finchley Ridley & Bennett James Thompson William Park James Rankin Greverat & Vigar McLeod & Co. Thomas Cox John Shiploy Isaac Williams Feller & Groesbeck Sarah Anis6e Rt McWilliams & ( Gregor McGregor George Lyons Richard Wright James Cochran Thos. Williams Total [B 100, p 511]

Four Four Five Two Three Two Two Three * Two Three Two Two Two Jo. Three Five Five Four

Batteax Load. do. do.

do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do.,

do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do.

Two do. do. Eight do. do. Ninety Batteau Load [copy signed] Major

AT. S. DE PEYSTER Commanding at Detroit

v

RETURN OF ORDNANCE DEMANDED IN 1779 & 1780. Return of ordnance absolutely necessary for the defence of the Garrison of Detroit, demanded in 1779 and 80. (December 25, 1780) 1 Eighteen Pounder ' Irn 2 Nine ditto S1 Eight Inch Howitzer ass 1 Royal ditto Required a Proportion of Ammunition for the above with forty Barrels of Corn'd Powder for present use of the garrison. [signed] HENRY DU VERNET To Brigadier General Powell Lt. R. R. A. Commanding Niagara Sand its Dependencies &c. &c. [B 100, p 510]



Page 590


1590

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

DAVID MITCHELL TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. SIR I must take the liberty of troubling you on a matter which concerns me much, my circumstances being so situated as to make it very detrimental to my Interest to leave this Post with the Regiment, induces me to address myself to you on this occasion, hoping that you will approve of my retiring from the Regiment. If a Purchaser cannot be found, I hope I may be allow'd to resign what I purchas'd exclusive of the Extraordinary Expenses that I was at in getting to this Post. I hope Sir, this matter may meet with your approbation, and that you will assist me with your good offices. I am Sir Your most obedt Servant Michilimackinac Island [signed] DAVID MITCHELL December 25h 1780 Major De Peyster 'Commanding the King's Regt [B 100, p 508] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO SIR HENRY CLINTON. SIR QUEBEC I dispatched this Courier more in Expectation of hearing from your Excellency, than to communicate affairs from hence, at present of Little Moment. The enclosed Intelligence was brought in some days ago by a Mr. Thomas Man. I sincerely hope it is authentic, but his not having brought any Testimony from Your Excellency, some part of the Report being already contradicted, and his being considered by his own People rather addicted to Exaggeration, tho' an active and a Zealous Loyalist, I am induced to transmit his Repqrt and I must request Your Excellency will inform me if any money has been paid to him upon account of subsistence, as he claims Pay from the time he was taken Prisoner, giving credit for ~70 Sterling only, which he says he received by your Warrants, and which he seems to consider rather as a gratuity than upon account of subsistence. The Trade Fleet of 42 Ships, sailed the 31st May, it was separated, only 18 are arrived. Another Fleet of Victuallers was soon to follow, a Rebel Paper says a large Ordnance Ship is sunk in action, she answers the description of the True Briton with Naval, Ordnance and other stores much wanted here. A Detachment from Detroit to oppose the Rebels upon the Ohio has



Page 591


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

591

destroyed three Forts, and taken about 400 Prisoners. The Fickle & Perverse conduct of the Indians prevented something great being effected. The Six Nation Indians have been very active, and all accounts from the Mohawk River & Frontier which separates us confirm the Distress of the People & their abhorrence of the oppression they Labour under. Since the above was written, a scout is returned from near Albany, who brings Rebel News Papers, mentioning the arrival of seven French ships of the Line & 6000 Troops at Rhode Island-a Junction of a Spanish with a french fleet in the West Indies & other unfavourable accounts. The Messenger spoke with a man who said he had himself seen the ships, then guns were landed & that the Troops were fortifying the Island. A scout from Mohawk River informs that the Oneidas instead of Joining their Confederacy in the Royal Interest, which they came to Niagara to do, have, in a Body, seized the Mohawks' Lands & are protecting the Harvest, which is very plentiful for the use of the Rebels. It will give me infinite satisfaction to hear from your Excellency the Truth of the foregoing Reports. What objects the Enemy's operations seem to point to, and if you think any thing in my Power to undertake may tend to favor your views. General Knyphausen's in cypher of the 30h May is received. Endorsed: Copy 1780 To Sir Henry Clinton of the [B 147, p 283] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT Janry. 8th 1781. SIR, Since the affair at the Miamis something similar happened at St. Joseph's. A Detachment from the Cahokias, consisting of sixteen men only, commanded by a half Indian named Jean Baptiste Hammelain, timed it so as to arrive at St. Joseph's with Pack Horses, when the Indians were out on their first Hunt, an old chief & his family excepted. They took the Traders Prisoners, and carried off all the goods, consisting of at least Fifty Bales, and took the Route of Chicagou. Lieut Dagreaux Du Quindre, who I had stationed near St. Josephs, upon being informed of it, immediately assembled the Indians, and pursued them as far as the petite Fort, a days Journey beyond the Riviere Du Chemin where on the 5h December, he summoned them to surrender, on their refusing to do it he ordered the.Indians to attack them. Without the loss of a man on his side, killed



Page 592


592

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

four, wounded two, and took seven Prisoners, the other Three escaped in the thick Wood. Three of the Prisoners were brought in here amongst whom is a Brady a Superintendent of Indian affairs. The rest he suffered the Indians to take to M. Makina. I look upon these Gentry as Robbers and not Prisoners of war, having no commission, that I can learn, other than a verbal order from Mons. Trottier an Inhabitant of the Cahoes. The Rebels having long since quit all that country Brady who says he had no longer a desire of remaining in the Rebel Service, therefore did not follow them, informed me that Colonel Clarke, was gone down to Williamsburgh to solicit a Detachment to Join with a Spanish Colonel in an Expedition against the, place. When the heavy cannon and ammunition arrives, which I have returned wanting, I shall be ready to give them a warm reception should they be rash enough to attempt it. Our Works are however yet in a shatter'd State. The Rangers, I am just informed, are safe arrived at the Miamis. I am Sir "Your most obedient humble Servt. Brig Genl. Powell [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from Major De Peyster to B. Genl. Powell dated at Detroit Jany 8th 1781. [ B 101, p 1] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT Jany 23d 1781. SIR, By Express Just arrived from M. Makina, Capt. Mompesson informs me that the two vessels here have met with a very ugly accident. Capt. Grant in whose department it is writes to you fully on the subject. I have nevertheless herewith enclosed you an extract' from Capt. Mompesson's Letter. The reason the Hope was not sent to winter there, was owing to want of cables, which was reported to Colonel Bolton. Perhaps when His Excellency is informed of the above affairs of sending a Vessel of so large a Burden to remain upon a station where there is so little shelter. If the Hope must go we shall miss the best vessel for Transport on the Lake I have the pleasure to inform you that the Cannon which had been left at the Glaze was brought in safe here the other day owing to the great falls of rain. When the Express left M. Makinac, tho' twenty days had elapsed they had not got any accounts of the affair of St. Josephs, I daresay it will be a month before they hear



Page 593


CAPT. GRANT TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

593

it, we have our intelligence from that place generally in four or five days. I have had great numbers of the St. Josephs Indians here to make a merit of their Loyalty. I have the Honor to be &c Brig. Genl. Powell. [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from Major De Peyeter to Brig. Genl Powell dated Detroit Jan. the 23d 1781. [B 101, p 3] CAPT. ALEX. GRANT TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT Jany 25h 1781 -SIR, By the Express from Michilimackinac I am sorry to inform you, that Lieut Harrow, senior officer of the two sloops Angelica and Welcome detained at this Post has by different Gales of N. E. winds in the month of December last suffered so much damage at the wharf built there last year, which lyes subject to the Rage of that Quarter so that its a doubt whether they are repairable or not, also great part of the wharf tore away. This unlucky circumstance will I am fearful retard the Transportation for the ensuing Spring. In September last I received the General's directions through Capt. Shanks to send one of our principal vessels for the use of that Port; I wrote fully to Colonel Bolton on that subject and for fear of the Letter being mislaid, I shall do myself the pleasure of enclosing a copy of them. And shall follow your directions relative to them orders, indeed it was lucky, she was not sent then, she would have shared the same fate with the rest. When the General the year before last, ordered the Sloop Welcome, for that Post, I direct her to be ly'd up for the winter on a river within a few miles at Michilimackinac, where no weather could hurt her, and six soldiers from this Garrison allotted to assist the seamen in defending her. My direction was changed and the consequence is what has happened. I am Sir &c Brig. Genl. Powell [signed] ALEX GRANT Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from Capt. Grant to Brig. Genl. Powell Dated Detroit Jany the 25th 1781 [B 101, p 4] SPEECHES. (Translation Literal.] MIAMIS 25h Feby. 1781. Speech brought from the French of Post Vincennes & the Piankishaws by the Ouiatanons addressed to Lacane by 4 bunches of white wampum. ' 75



Page 594


594

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

We flatter ourselves that you have always a French heart we invite you to come before us, for there you will preserve your village. We are risen to go to you, altho' the English regard us as ants, we regard them as the same. If they are conquerors keep them for your fathers; but we altho' inferiors, we shall always be your proper fathers. On the part of the Piankishaws. We Join in the word of the French, my elder brothers, you often remind yourselves of the old alliance which we have made, we would make only one body, we extend the hand and pray you to neglect nothing, time presses, we are certain that he will raise a strong party to go to Detroit and that you will suffer from them. By four strings of white wampum in the name of thirty villages of different nations not named, addressed to the Miamis, Hurons, Sauteaux, Ottawas, Potawatamies, Chairenous, Loups and all those who are on the King of England's side. We have risen to cut down all that we shall find before us, we would warn you to take good care of yourselves, to keep yourselves quiet not to alarm yourselves at our passage, we are so powerful that we look upon the men of the Lakes as nothing, not more than your father the English. You are all fools who listen to the English, who amuse us with the porcelain axes. As for ours it is so heavy that, nothing can resist it, you will feel it then (throwing the strings to the earth) there is how I would treat those who will not be guideld by the present speech, as for you Miamis we know that you will do nothing till -after the others. End. Answer of the Miamis Chief to the Ouiatanons by a Belt of union which the Commandant had given to them. My brothers, we repeat to you the same words which you have already spoken; you come to ask us our way of thinking, it is a long time as you know since our father did his best to reunite all his children and make only one body, the belt which he gives you to-day is the way that he has described for a long time; I invite you to follow, you will not find any difficulty; you know the recent misfortunes which have happened to you, you have dirtied this road with the blood of the Poutawatamies and of our own chief. If you would listen to the words of our father and that of our friends as we do, you would find no trouble. See the kindness he shews his children, he would like to hide the blood which these fools have spilled altho' these things cannot be done except by a council of the French who are with you; you know that they are his enemies & yours, still you would not agree;



Page 595


SPEECHES.

595

if you continue to listen to them you will be miserable. You see that your wives & your children are in want, you are forced to cover yourselves with animals 'skins, we, on the contrary, we are glorious to see, our wives, our children, our young men, covered with jewelry. You have neither powder nor shot nor arms, what will you do. What do you think? You see that our father is always inclined to help you. This is the last time we will talk to you. If you will not accept the words they are gone to the Poutewatamies to make a solid peace with the Pians. I ask you to profit by this occasion, we speak to you, to all the men of the Wabashe, you see the road which passes through our village, we are anxious to be of use and the doors are always open. You have not done the same you men of the Wabashe, but to prove our friendship we offer you a pass through our village to escape from the misery where you are. By four strings of black wampum given to the Potawatamies present at the council. My brothers, You come to hear the words which we come to say to the Ouiatanons, we invite you to encourage your men to make peace with the Pians. We are not in the humor to make war between us, this is not the intention of our father nor of our friends the brown skins. Answer of Pacane to the French of Post Vincennes and to the Pians. By four strings of black wampum attached to a Tomahawk and Pipe painted Red. You fools who say that the porcelain axes are good for nothing, you do not know the consequence nor the force, since you have none to use, since you believe that they are not strong, good Ouiatanons, take this tomahawk go and try it on the head of the Virginians or the French who are of their party, if it makes a breach our father will take care to heal it or to give it to you to heal. As for me I look upon the threats of the Indians against us as nothing, they tell us that *their axes are dull because they are of wood; but that of our father is of iron and well sharpened. By a large knife and a painted red. My brothers, this is the way in which our young warriors live today after having used the axe, they serve them as knives to make% their marks as warriors, is it not shameful for you that the children shew you the knives stained with the blood of the French, which you have brought herp to destroy us, pillage and rob us, these are your friends and our enemies. By a carrot of tobacco painted red.



Page 596


596

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Good war Chiefs, there is a pipe of tobacco which I give you to smoke, if the colour is not repugnant: on the contrary it should encourage you and make you wrath against those who are the authors of all your miseries and all your misfortunes, that would make you open your eyes and ears; any time that you have been with your fathers the French, Spaniards, Virginians have you ever had a bit of powder or shot? since you have joined them to come to rob us. By a red cloth blanket. You see our village stained with blood, you can think that we are not going to extend the hand to your friends who are our enemies, you can understand that if we find you. with them that we will not make any distinction. You say that I am wanted to go to Post Vincennes that I shall be well received, I should be entirely lost, if I go this is the way in which I shall present myself (he rose and sung the war song and many other Miamis have followed his example. A true copy. AT.- S. DE PEYSTER. [B 101, p 10] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN OAMPBELL. QUEBEC 8h March 1781 SIR, I am commanded by His XExcellency General Haldimand to acquaint you that as there may be occasion to send out small scouts, or Indian messengers from St. francois, and other Little Services occur where gratuities will be expected. He desires that, if there is no provision for the same at that place you will furnish Mr. Schmid with such small articles as you may think necessary & have been usually given upon those occasions, of which he is to render account to you. I have the Honor to be Lieut Col. Campbell.. [signed] ROBT. MATHEWS [B 113, p 127] INDIAN SPEECH AT DETROIT. [Translation.] MIAMIS 9th March 1781 Speech addressed to the Commandant of Detroit by the Miamis Chiefs. By four strings of wampum black, and by four others, addressed to their allies.



Page 597


CAPT. M'KEE TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

597

My Father We do not hesitate to ask thy assistance and that of all thy children, we cannot get over that thou hast a good heart to help the children, we are inclined to go to Poste Vincennes we can do nothing without thee. My father, you see that it is necessity compells us to make this demand; in this place you render all the children happy, on the contrary if we let it exist it is the help of our enemies and the cause of all the troubles among the nations, this is the best time to do it, we pray you to grant us our request, and to make all haste possible, time presses as for our allies who are near thee, we are certain that they are always ready to revenge the death of our father and that of our brothers the Outanais, these are the promises that Egouchionois has made. We ask you all to join us in this undertaking, it is of interest to us, all, this is the most dangerous place which we have in this part..My brother, thou knowest the men of the Wabasche as we do, you will find, properly, that we have no faith in them, and that we take precautions on our passage having a party of whites and a few of all the nations who are near, the number increases every day. On the contrary if they leave this post in peace the number of his children will diminish, for we think and flatter ourselves that we will not abandon thee. This is the best time to insure a great peace. My father, we extend the hand and pray thee to let us know thy sentiments on this subject we take measures to make the canoes of elm. This is the true time to make all peaceable. [A true copy.] AT. S. DE PEYSTER Major Endorsed: For His Excellency the Commander in Chief. Speeches from the Miamis &c &c [B 101, p 19] OAPT. ALEXANDER M'KEE TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. SIR Nothing material having occurred during the Fall and Winter, that could be depended upon, prevented me writing. Tho' the constant alarms among the Indians made it necessary for me to assist and encourage them being in great perplexity and undetermined since the,destruction of their Villages. Notwithstanding the many parties that have been out against the Enemy, some of whom I had engaged to gain some certain advice of their designs, have been unsuccessful. Till within these few Days a party of Hurons and Shawanese accompanied by Simon Girty brought in three Prisoners from the Neighbourhood of the Falls. The most material part of their Information is, that the Enemy have been laying in Buffaloe Beef during the Winter, for an



Page 598


598

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Expedition into the Indian Country as early as possible in the Spring, and that Colonel Clarke is gone into the settlements to procure an Army of Two Thousand men to join those at Kentucky computed to one Thousand-the whole to assemble at the Falls of the Ohio and to consist of three Thousand men. Colonel Clarke is to return by Fort Pitt and to bring a quantity of Flour down the Ohio in March. This they say will be their last effort, should they be unsuccessful, their settlements on the South side of the Ohio must undoubtedly fall. But on the contrary their intention is to clear the Indian country and penetrate as far as Detroit. It will therefore behove the Lake Indians to exert themselves and unanimously join those on this side in order to prevent this, which may be effected by a unanimous exertion of their Force; as is apparent from the little damage (except the destruction of the corn) done by an army of one Thousand men against the Shawanese Villages, and the small number of Indians they had to encounter. They likewise mention an Expedition to be carried on from the Iron Banks upon the Mississippi perhaps towards the Michilimackinac, but they do not seem to be sufficiently acquainted with the designs of this. And also that the Southern Indians have commenced Hostilities against them. The most intelligent person amongst these Prisoners will be delivered with this to you by a Party of Hurons from a Village near this Place, whose services upon several occasions deserve some notice as they say they are not, in the way of receiving any part of the Arms or ammunition delivered to their Nation. There are many other Parties daily expected in, should they bring any further Intelligence worth notice, I hope soon to have the pleasure of declaring it to you, as I expect to leave this immediately after a meeting to be held in a few days by the Chiefs, in the mean time, I am Sir Your most obedient and very humble Servant [signed] ALEX. McKEE. To Major De Peyster (Date probably about March 1, 1781.) [B 101, p 16] CAPT. A. THOMPSON TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. MIAMIS 14h March 1781. SIR I am favoured with yours of the 7h Feby. by the Pottawatamie Chief and observe the contents. The precaution you gave me against



Page 599


CAPT. THOMPSON TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

599

going into any of the Indian" snares, I had taken on hearing what was told me concerning Le Gris at the same time, do not believe it was true. The Fort shall be altered as soon as possible. Mr. Beaubin's accounts is sent to Mr. Baby, as they are wrote in French and I do not understand the Language I have thought proper to sign them no doubt they are just as Mr. Beaubin is a man there is so much trust put in. You'll please receive a Speech from the French at Post St. Vincent, and thirty different Nations of Indians unknown, brought here by the Onias to the Miamis, Ottawas &c. &c. &c. and the answer to it from the Miamis, likewise a request to yourself with several Strings of Wampum. You'll likewise receive a Bundle of Papers, a Book and a German Flute, formerly belonging to Le Balm, and a small Pocket Book which the Onis brought me from the Ohio, as a Party of them had been to war, they say they killed two Virginians, who were in a Canoe who fell in the River, so they were not able to bring their Scalps. A Party of the Miamis set off a few days ago to the Onias a reconnoitring. The Chiefs told me perhaps they would go to the Post as they offered themselves voluntarily. The Onias spread a report among the Miamis who were on their hunting ground that the French was on their road to attack this place. They no sooner heard it but they left their women & children in a safe place, and in two days time I had 46 warriors. Had I not sent to stop the rest I should have had all the men belonging to the village in two days more. I do assure you by their conduct I never saw people in higher spirits. They have been talking to me several times to write to you for assistance to go and destroy Post St. Vincent, as it is the only place that gives them any uneasiness. There is news continually among the Indians from that Post, they expect an answer immediately so that they may have canoes in readiness. I would be much obliged to you, as the men are in want of a number of necessaries, you would permit John Wilson (formerly a Serjeant in the Rangers) to come out and supply them. Tis a request of the men to me. I can safely recommend him as a good man while in the corps. I have people out every day looking for the Horses but I am afraid most of them is dead, they were so poor last fall. Six that Mr. Clinch took to Detroit is dead, and two that Sergt Whitescelles is also. The French are not yet arrived from Roche de bout, otherwise I should send an answer about Mr. Barthe's effects, by what I can learn there is very little belonging to him here. I send in by Mr. Cothrell



Page 600


600

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

a Prisoner and three Frenchmen, Vandal one of Le Balm's Volunteers, Master was plundered, by Le Balm's party, Boswel was Baker to the Inhabitants of this place. The Prisoner Huntington was taken from Colonel Clarke at the Falls of Ohio last fall by a Party of Indians from La Riviere d'lanqueille and delivered up to me in Feby. One of the Party of Miamis that was going to the Onia is just returned says that they were joined by four more Indians, and are determined to go as far as the Post. The Indian Speeches I was obliged to ask Mr. Beaubin to write in French, as I do not understand but a third of what he says. [signed] A. THOMPSON. Major De Peyster Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from Capt. Thompson of Colonel Butler's Rangers to Major De Peyster at Detroit, dated Miamis 14h March 1781. [B 101, p 21] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT March 17th 1781. SIR I was favoured with your Packet of the 16th Feby on the 4th Instant. Tucker is not yet arrived hence the affair in which Monsr du Quindre acquitted himself so well, the enemy returned or rather a fresh party arrived at St. Josephs and carried the Traders and the remainder of their goods off. Mr.. Du Quindre arrived there the day after, but could not assemble a sufficient Body to pursue them Forty Indians had got together in a few days, but as the Enemy had got too much the start they insisted upon his conducting them to Detroit in order to speak to me; I herewith enclose you the substance of the Council together with Mr. Bean Solid's Speech, to the Indians; I also enclose a copy of Capt. McKee's Letter to me, which will convince you the Enemy will attempt the Indian Country if they do nothing more. I am endeavouring to put every thing in a state to receive them. I am sorry to say that the Canadians are not to be depended upon. I therefore cannot make any considerable Detachment from this small Garrison, tho' I am sure I shall be soon called upon. This day arrived Mr. Albert Graverad who deserted from Fort Pitt, he was formerly a Deserter from the Post. He reports that Colonel Broadhead commands one hundred & fifty men in garrison at Fort Pitt, and Beaver Creek. That they receive one Ration and half of flour, but no meat, are very ill cloathed and that many of the Settlement would come off if a Road was opened for them and that they knew how they would be received



Page 601


CAPT. GRANT TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

601

here. He also reports that Col. Clark has obtained a draught of Three thousand men to enter the Indian country at the Miamis River, and penetrate if he can into Detroit. You may depend that I shall take every method to secure the Prisoners at this Place, I am however sorry to say, from the scarcity of crops the year before, and the severity of the weather the Winter before which killed most of the Hogs and numbers of Cattle, together with the last fall crop turning out worse than was expected, I do not believe I shall be able to purchase above one hundred thousand lbs of Flour, 2000 bushels of Indian Corn and about eighty head of cattle, being very poor and the grain as yet in the Sheaves, millers work goes on but slowly here. The Provision Return herewith sent, will shew that the flour we have & what can be purchased will not serve this Garrison long, rating it at one Thousand strong, including Indians. Capt. Grant writes to you fully upon Naval matters, it is therefore needless for me to trouble you on that head. Lieut du Vernet who was relieved too late last fall takes the earliest opportunity of going down, he is extremely anxious to get down, and I am very sorry to loose so good an officer. By this vessel I send down some Canadians &c. who were taken in arms at the Miamis & St. Joseph and by the next I shall send some who are rather dangerous People in this settlement. This instant an express arrived from Michilimackinac but it brings nothing material, not one line from Lieut Gov' Sinclair. Mr. Mitchell the surgeon's mate begs leave to resign, which I readily agree to, provided the Commander in Chief has no objections. I herewith enclose his Letter and shall be very glad if you can procure, it to be done. I have the honor to be Sir Your most obedient humber Servant [signed] AT S. DE PEYSTER. Brig. Genl. Powell Endorsed:-Copy of a Letter from Major De Peyster to Brigadier General Powell dated at Detroit 17th March 1781. [B 101, p 24] CAPT. ALEX. GRANT TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT March 18h 1781. SmIR I acknowledge your favor of the 12h last month by the express, at 76



Page 602


602

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

the same time I received a Letter from Captain Schanks dated at Quebec the 7h January, desiring to send some ship Carpenters from this Department to that of Carleton Island could they be spared, which the master builder at this place informs me is impossible from the absolute necessary repairs and work that is to be carried on here, exclusive of Building a new vessel, and its evident -to me that none can be spared without endangering the service here. Major De Peyster informed me that he had accounts of the Enemy intending our advancing towards this Post, and directs two of the vessels that would be best spared from the Transportation to be well armed so that they might be stationed in the River Miamis, or where most necessary. I have accordingly fitted out the Schooner Faith and Sloop Adventure for that purpose. The Major says he cannot spare Troops as Marines to be put on board these vessels, in that case its out of my power to man them properly for defence, being as much as I can do, with the number of men we have in the Department to man the vessels for the Transportation. This will prevent our having it in our power to give any assistance in the Transportation between Little Niagara and Fort Erie, as the two vessels usually allotted for that Business were the Faith and Adventure. By the Express the day before yesterday from Michilimackinac, the senior officer of the Department, there informs me that he thinks the Welcome is not repairable, and that they cannot ascertain the damage done the Angelica till the ice breaks up. He further tells me there is neither White Oaký or Pine on that Island, or near hand it, so as to have good Plank Sawn for the Repair of them and also no artificers to give the least assistance. I am Sir Your most obedient and most humble Servant Brigadier General Powell [signed] ALEX GRANT Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from Captain Grant to Brig. General Powell dated at Detroit March 18h 1781. [B 101, p 27] JOSEPH WILLIAMS TO WM. ROBERTSON. DETROIT 30h March 1781. SIR To prevent any reflections thrown on my conduct, for repairing His Majesty's Armed Schooner Hope in her present situation, I have applied to Captain Grant to order a Survey on her which he refuses; saying



Page 603


REPORT ON THE SCHOONER HOPE.

603

that from the scarcity of vessels, she must navigate. It is my opinion she is unfit for service. [signed] J. WILLIAMS To ' Master Builder Mr. Wm. Robertson C. C. &c. 'Naval Department at Detroit [B 101, p 29] WM. ROBERTSON TO JOSEPH WTILIAMS. DETROIT 30th March 1781. SIR In answer to yours of this Day, representing the decayed state of His Majesty's arrival Schooner Hope; and your application, for a survey, I am to request, that you with the assistance of your Foreman & such others as you think best qualified Examine into her defects, and render to me your opinion in writing, that I may lay the same before the Commanding officer of the Post. I am sir Your most humble servant WM. ROBERTSON To C.. &c. Joseph Williams Naval Dept. Master Builder J [B 101, p 29] REPORT ON THE SCHOONER HOPE. DETROIT 30h March 1781 In pursuance of the above requisition, we the subscribers have surveyed His Majesty's Armed Schooner Hope, and find her defects to be as follows, vizt. The Stern & Transport Transom & Fashion Pieces, as also the Timbers, very much decay'd, and we think her unfit for service. [signed] J. WILLIAMS Master Builder JNO. FERRIER Foreman WM. VAUGHAN Shipwright LANCH N ANDERSON ditto PETER CUMING ditto Endorsed: (Copies) In Williams Master Builder his Letter to Mr. William Robertson, with tho answer thereto, and the opinions of the Surveyors relative to the Schooner Hope dated at Detroit March 80h 1781. [B 101, p 30]



Page 604


604 HALDIMAND PAPERS. Remain of Ordnance & Ordnance Stores in the several Gar-risons Undermentioned under the charge of the Commissary. Detroit 1ichý S. R. U. S. R. U. Boxes tin tube 8 Inch H owitzers-------------------------------- 2------ ------ 3 1 with Straps 13 Inch----------------------------------------- 6------ ------ 12 ----------- r5%s Inch ------4-------------------------------------- 74 ------------ ------ ------ --- 24 Pro Round Shot----------------------------------- 1------------------ 6------ --- Bottoms 12----2--------------------------------- 3------------- ------ ------ ------ Wood 8- ---------------------------------------- 1 ---- ------ ------ ------ 12------------------------------------- --------1 ---- ------ ------ ------ L24 Prs. Case Shot ------------------------------- 1......................-- ---- ---- Engines Fire ---------------------------------------------- --------1 ---- ------ ------ ------ Fazes fixd 4 24.th Inch ----------------------------------------- 500------ ------ 175 ------------ F18 Prs -------------------------------------- I--------1 ---- ------ ------ ------ 12 ~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ----------------------------------- I ---------------- 9 --------------------------------- 1 ---- ------ ------ ------ Formers--------------------------------------------1........... Cartridge 2-- - - - - -........... [------------------------------------------- 2---- ------ ------ ------- ------ -- --- ---- ------ -- -- 1--- -- ----------- ------ ------ Flax lbs------------------------------------------------------- 4 ---------- ------------- Flannel yds----------------------------------------- 5------ ------ ------ ------ ------ 9 Pros ------------------------------------------ 1------------ ------ ------ --- Ganges r T Iron----------------------------------- I------ ------1:----- -----61------. Shot {: 3 -------' 1------------------------------ I--- ------ ------ Shading Knives--------------------------------------- 2----------- ------ ------ --- Kitt pounds --------------------------------------------------- - 6------------ ------ -- ------- Mallets &.Setters 4 2-5 Inch -------------------------------- 3:38------------ ------ ------ --- athQuick Cotton lbs oz - ----------------------------7:0...................... -- ---- Powder Common Bbls & lbs.--------m---------------------------- 33:5 ----- ------ 2:29.........--- Paper Common (rs. Sheets ---------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ 2:0 ---- Portfires doz odd ---------------------------------------------- 5.0------ ------0:-8..........-- Pincers pairs------------------------------------------------ 1........... Portfire sticks ------------------------------------------0------------4-20--------- Pots watering ------------------------------------------------- 3--- --- ------ ------ ------





Page 605


REMAIN OF ORDNANCE AND STORES. Remain of *Ordnance & Ordnance Stores.-Continued.

605



Detroit S. R. U.



Rasps Y2 Round--- -- -- -- -- -- - ------ -- - -- --- 1 " P rs - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Round in Piles.0 4Lead for Amuzette in Bores ------------------ 6 Prs) - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 3 bottoms only ----------------- 6 Pr Light Round fixd to wood bottoms with8 Light--- flannel csrtg fi~d powder caps &covers-- F6.Pre Case................................--------- 8hot 1 Grape L3 Inch Howitzers ---------------------- ----set------------------------------------

1 372 1200 804 1000 300 200 70 30 91 202 84 457 87 30 94 2:7



17

Mich S. R. U. 39-- ---- ------ 60 ----- ------

24------- 24.........---

r42-5 Inch -- ----- --)- ----- --- I Empty Shll.Handgrenades) ------------------ I4 2-5 Inch - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - (Handgrenades -------------- ------ Scrapers for Shells 4 2-5 Inch---------------------------------- Saws Tennant ------------------------------------ Scissors pairs ------------------------------------------------ Sheers Large pairs ------------------------------------------- Seives Lawn------------------------------------------------- Sulphur Coarse lbs------------------------------------------ - 18 Prs ------------------------------------- 13 Medfi ------------------------ 6 Light ~flxd........................-------- Tubes 8-- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 8 Inch Howitzer.) --------- -------- 18 Prs) - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - Empty 12- - - - - --)- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

3001-I

23 1--

70 40 32 3 31 76 488 230 333 100 300

10

12 25 270





Page 606


606

HEALDIMAND PAPERS. Remain of Ordnance & Ordnance Stores.-Continued.

Detroit Mich S. R. U. S. R. U. Ti Sheets ------------------------------------- 146 --I------- ------ ------ ------ Tunnnls for shells 4 2-5 Inch------------------------------ 1 --- ------------ Tables with Rubber for Mealing powder------I------ ------ ------1--- --- r2s lbs ---------------------------------------------- 4------------ ------ ------ --- 14 ------------------------------------------------ 1------------ ------ ------ --- 12 ------------------------------------------------ 1......................------ Weights 4 -------- ----------------------------------- I--------1 ---- ------ ------ ------ Lead 3 --------------------------------------------------- 1----- ---------- ------ ------ 2 ------------------I---------------------------- --------1 ---- ------ ------ ------ 1 -------------------------------------------- --------1 ---- ------ ------ ------ 8 oz ------------------------------------------- --------1 ---- ------ ------ ------ [B 15 7, p 267] QUEBEC 1st April 1781 Remain of Ordnance & Ordnance Stores at the Upper Posts in Canada. Detroit Michc S. B. U. S. B. U. Brass Ordnance With Travig. Carrg Timbers &c 12 Ps Lt ----------------------- 1----------------- ------ ------ do 6 Lt ------------------------ -------- ------ 2----------- With grass hopper Carriages 3 Ps ------------------------------ 2-'-.------- -------- ------ ------ With standing carriages Trucks beds & coins 12 Ps-------------- 1----------------- ------ ------ Amusetts --- ------ ----------------------------- -------- ------ ------ 4------ ------ With beds 4 2-5 Inch Mortars ---------------------------- 0------ ---- --------- ------1.... 'Without bed 42-5SInch do ----------------------------- ------ ---1--- -------- ------ ------ rl18Pe -'---------------1----------------------------- ------ --- ------ --------------------------- -2 1----- ------------ ------ ------ wihstandg carriages Trucks bedsancos with------------------------ 5 ----------- 2------2 --- 4 j ----- -- --------- --- ----- -- --------- 3 ------ ------ ------ - A------ 0 witn bed 4 2-5 Inch Mortar ---------------------------- 1------------------ ------ ------ 0 Patterero,--------------------------------------- I--------1 ---- -------- ------ ------ 4 P ----------------------------------- 1 ------ ---;-------- ------ ----- }dismounted L Swivels -------------------------------------------- 8----------------- ------ ------



Page 607


RE MAIN OF ORDNANCE AND STORES. 607 Remain of Ordnance & Ordnance Stores at the Upper Posts in Canada-Continued. Detroit Mc S. R. U. S. R. U. FBoxes 6 Ps------------------------------------- 6 --- ------- ------ Ammunition 3 do------------------------------------- 12 --- ------- ------ tChest's--------------- -------------------------- 8 --- ------- ------ Aprons of Lead ----------------------------------------------- 19 ----- ------ 9------9 9 r Strong Pikes--------------------------------- 48 --- ------- ------ Arm s & I W all Pieces - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - -- --.- 2 - - -- - - - Accoutrementsi bMusquet Bayonets English -------------------- 20 --- ------- ------ ~.Musquet Cartouche do - --- - --------- i --- ------- --- ------i Barrels Budge ---------------------------- --- ----------------- 14 --- -- Buckets Leather ---------------------------------- ------------ 1 --- ------- ------ do wood ------------------ ------------------------------ 2 --- ------- ------ Bottles stone for holding oil ----------------------------------- 1 --- ------- ------ Brushes painting--------------------------------------- 6------ ---- ----- ---- 6-- Bags SandQu'ar Bushel---------------------------------------- 800 --- ------- ------ Beam Iron large with board scales----------------------------1---- 1 ------ ------ 1------------ Bloc ks wood 12 Inches long Double----------------------------- 1 --- ------- ------ do do do Single -------- --------------------- 1 --- ------- ------ Ball Tons. cwt. qrs- lb. English Musquet ---------------------- 0-6.:21-.2----- ------ 0:8-.1:23------- do do Musquet --------------------- ----------- 0.0:1:2 ---- ------- ------ Ball1 Cartridges* English 15 Buck Shot ea----------------- ------- 15,950 ---------- ---- L---- ------ ------ Carriages grass hopper----------------------------------------- 2 --- ------- ------ Cart Sli~ig without wheels-------------------------------------- 1----- Chains Drag pairs l2Ps Medium ------------------------------1-- I--- ------- ------ Chalk lbs ---------------------- ------------------------------- b ----------- ------ Crows Iron -----------------------------------------------1---- ------ ----------- Cjlouts, Iron for Axietrees --------------- ----------------------- 2 --- ------- ------ Hose Efore do. ------------------------------------------------- I---------- -------- ------ ------ Hook--------------------------------------- 7---------------- I----1-------- -------- ------ ------ Flns Musquet------------------------------------------ 21---- 20 ------ --- 5046------ ------ 1.Carbine -------------------------------------------- 1000-------- ------ 760------ ------ or rs Musquet, Cartridge-------------------------------- -------- ------ ------ 4 ----- ------ Fres Carbine do --------------------------------- -------- ------ ------ 2----- rRed ----------------------------------------------- -------- ------ ------ 1--I---- ------ Flags tno ----- Uras niokns--z------------------------------------------- -----1--- ------ ------ 1------ ------ G rea e F rind t ne s w ith o ut- Troughs--- ----; -- - ------ - --------- - ------1------- - - - - ----- ------ ----- Grinds tronges ftortweighing -------------------------------- -----1- ------ -------- ------ ------





Page 608


608 HALDIMAND PAPERS. Remain of. Ordnance & Ordnance Stores at the Upper Posts in Canada.-Continued. Detroit Mrichc S. R. U. S. R. U. Traversing---------------------------------------- 8 ---- ------ ICommon ----------------------------------------- 16 --- ------ ------ Handspikes Claw'd -------------------------------------------- 6 --- ------ ------ (Gin----------------------------------------------- 4 --- ------ ------ Handscrew small-----:;------------------------------------------ I------1 --- ---------- Hides Tan-n'd ---------------------------------------------------- 4----------- I------1 Horns Powder ---------------------------------------------------- 2-------- ------4 -- 2 -Hammers claw ---------------------------------------------------- 6 --- ------ ------ Mens12 to aset-sets ------------------------------------ 2----------- 20-----2......... F r Cart saddles--------------------------------------- 2----------- 1------1 --- I Thill I-------------------------------- 2----------- 2----------- 2------2 --- Trace -------------------------------------------- 2----------- 2------2 --- Chain Traces pairs--------------------------------- 2----------- 3------3 --- 0 Bcill Haltars--------------------- i------------------ 4 --- ------ ------ Hemp Halters-------------------------------------- 2------ ------ ----------------- Wanties ------------ ------------------------------ 2 --- ------ ------ Muzzles wth Hemp Leaders------------------------- 2----------- ------ ------ ------ (Flat --------------------:--------------------- 1:1:11 --- ------ ------ Iron wt qr 1bs Bushel---------------- -------- ---------------- 0:1:2 --- ------ ------ Iron work for sleds ----------------------------------------------- 2 --- ---- - ------ Kits for holding grease -------------------------------------------2 ---------- ------ ------ ------ - Ktls{Copper wth cover ------------------------------------1--- I--- ------ ----- L Tin -----------------------------------------------1------ I--- ------ ------ rwithout cocks--------------------------------------- 5----------- 4------4 --- Lisok with do------------ --------------------7- -- -- -- -7 ----- ------ ------ ------ ---- Muscovy ----------------------------------------1---- I----------- ------ Lanthorns Tin------------------------------------------------- 1 --- ------ ------ lDark ----------------------------------------------- 3------------------ (Round ------------------------------------ &------------ 1 --- ------ ------ Ladders fSe ----------------------------1--- --W~ ------ --- 1.Step ------------------------------ ------------------ 4----1-------- ------ ------ ------ Locks Pad ---------------------------------------------------- 4----------- ------ ------ ------ 18Ps -------------------------------------------------------- 1----------- ------ ---- -- ------ 12 H eavy - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 - - -- - - - - - -- - - - -- - -I 9 ------------------------------------------------------------1..........................----- 6Heavy Cope- wth------------------------------ 4----f--------------- Staves



Page 609


REMAIN OF ORDNANCE AND STORES. 609 Remain of Ordnance & Ordnance Stores at the Upper Pos~ts in Canada.-Continued. Detroit hMichc S. B. U. S. R. U. 6- W -h---t-'t -ves--------------------------------------------- 2 --- ------ ------ 4 J----------------------------------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ Moulds for castingf Muscinet Ball --- ----------- ---- 1 --- ------ ------ 1.Carbine' do ------------------------------- 1-1 -- ------ ------ Match Slow cwt qrs lbs --------------------------------------- 0:2:11-----------0:0:17------- Marline Tarrd skeins ----------------------------------------- 3 ----------------- Magazines Travelling------------------------------------------ 4 --- ------------ Ojigallsepts ------------------------------------------------- 70--- ------ ------ FSpanish Brown lbs ------------------------------------ i10---o ---o---------- Paint ~ Yellow ---------------------------- -------------------10-------o---o------ Rd---------------------------~------------ 100 --- ------ ------ Punches for vents--------------------------------- ------------ 10 ------ ------ 2------- Paper fiue Reams Qrs Sheets ---- ------------------------------ 0:6:0 ----- ------ 3-6:12 ----------- Poles for carryinghlght guns------------------------------------ 1------ ------1 ----- ------ do do small Mortars --------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ Pads shoulder do ------------------------------------ 2 --- ------------ Planks fir covering the magazine ------------------------------- 70 ------ ------ ------------- FDrag Pairs ----------------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ 2------- Spliced for carrying guns-------------------------------*3 --- ------ ------ With loops & pins fo rdo -------------------- 7-------- 4 --- ------------ Ropes - underhand - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- -- --j- - -- -- -- - - - - -- - - Slings for Heavy Guns--------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ LTackle falls gin --------------------------------------- 2------------ ------ ------ --- [lar athms--------ht ------------------------------ ------ ------ -------1 1cre sPelvatigght6 d ------------------------------- S-------- 1 ------ 2......... -------- Sorws levtin- 6 do ------------------------------------- 3-------- 2-------,3 Pro g---------------------------1-------------. ------ --- ------ Searchers with reliefs 8Pr n s----------------- -- 1 --- ---- - ------ -- - fL4 do ------------------------------ ------ ------ ------1 ----- ------ Saddles for grass hoppers with breechiugs & girths ---------------- 4 --- ------------ Steel spikes for nailing guns------------------------------------- 6------ ------ 10 ----- ------ Sheep skins-odd doz------------------------------------------- 0:2------ ------0:3------- Steel Rod French cwt qr lb ------------------------------------ 0:3:6 --- ------------ Saws Hand --------------------------------------------------- 1------------ ------ ------ --- Scythe ------------------------------------------------------ 1 ------------ ------ ------ --- 77



Page 610


610 HALDIMAND PAPERS. Remain of Ordnance& Ordnance Stores at the Upper Posts in Canadia.-Continued. Detroit &Richo S. R. U. S. R. U. r18 Ps.-------------------------------------1------- ---------- ------ 12 Heavy ----------------------------------------- I-------1 ----- ------ ------ ------ Spunges - 9 --------------------------------------------------- 3----------- ------------- with staves 6 Heavy------------------- -------------------------- 12..........................----- Rammer HedI Light------------------------------------------------ 6----------- 6------6 --- 4 --------------------------------------------------- 4----------- ------ ------ ------ (4 2-5 Mortar ----------------------------------------- 6 --- ------ Spare spunge, & Rammner Heads ---------------------------------- 12:0 --- ------ ------ Spare carriages not bound wtb Iron 6 Ps -------------------------1-- I--- ------ ------ Spare washers with Hooks----------------------------------------- 2..........................----- '12Pr------------------------------------------------ 2------------.------ F Ifield with 6 ------------------------------------------------- 5 ------ --- ------ Tompeons Icollars I3 j--!------------------------------- 1..........................----- L 6 Pr Light garrison-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - -- - - - - -- - - -- - -- Tacks spange------------------------- 7 -------------------- 30------------- 30430------- Thread for Cartridges ------------------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ 4------- r F'Pick ---------------------------------1--- ---------- ------ Axes helved -~ Broad ---------------------------------'- 1----------- ------ ------ ------ (Felling ---------:------------------------- a ------ --- ------ So~ Iron Shovels-------------------------------------------1 ---------- --I-------- --- - LH oes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -1-- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Hatchets L B ills - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - --J- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Wad 12 Pr Heavy ---------------------------------------- I----1-------- ------ ------ ------ 19----------------------------------------------1----- I--- ------ ------ Hooks with 6Heavy--------------------------------- ------- I------ ---1-- ------ ------2 Light -------------------------------------------1---- ---------- ------ staves & 4 ---------------------------------------------------- 4----------- ------ ------ ------ Rammer Heads----------------- -------------------- 2..........................----- LAmusetta ------------------------------------------ ------ ------ ------- 2..........-- Wires Primning ------------------------------------- 16 ------ ----- 4-- -------4 Ilron 56 lbs -------------------------------------------- 4----------- ------ ------ ------ r 28 ------------------------------------------- 4 --- -j ---- ------ 14 ------------------------------------------- 1 ----------------- 12 ------------------------------------------- 1..........................----- 'Weights 4 -------------------------------------------- 1--------------_ - Lead -





Page 611


REMAIN OF ORDNANCE AND STORES..611 Remain of Ordnance& Ordnance Stores at the Upper Posts in Canada.-Continuted, Detroit Michc S. R. U1. S. R. U. [Quadrants with cases-------------------------- ---------- 2 --- ------------ ICalipers small------------------------ ------------------ 1 --- ------------ B a s W ir e b o t to m s f o r s ie v e s - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 3 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - LScales with Iron beams prs ------------------------------- 2 --- ------------ Boxe Ti Tub wih s ra 6 Pr Light -------------------------- 4------------ 4----4 ----d L3----;-------------------- 7------------ 2------ ------ ----------------- B~ottoms wood 4 Pr case shot -------------------------------------- 48 --- ------ ------ r 6P L g t160 - -- ------ -- -- -- 3 do lempty------------------------- 123 ------ --- ------ 92-5 Inch Mortar ------J---------------- 118 --- ------ ------ 18Pr ----------------------------------------- 26 --- ------ ------ 112 ---F --------------- -------- 54 ---------- ------ ------ ------ *Powder 4 45 ---45-------- ------ ------ ------ o Swivel ------------------------------------------832 --- ------------ '9 [Pr) --------------------------------------------- 249 --- ------ ------ CD 6 - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - 328 ------ ----- 28 - - -- - - - a 19 } ile it owe Laoaor------------------------------- Chests------------------------------------ ------ ------ ------ -------2----- ------j C atuhestsLa ofrLt hery6---Ps---Light ------------------------------ 2------6 ------ --------4---- ------ ofops Spare6Copper---- ------------ ------------------------0-- 6------ ------ 4------ ------ Ho FunnpaelsCoppr-filling----she ------------------------------ 50-----1------- ------ ------ ------- Sannlt ofling Bx shl------------------------------------ I----3-------- ------ ------ ------ S li ng B x s- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - C'opper - Adze ---------------------------------------------------- 1----------- ------ ------ ------ - i Driver -------------------------------------------------- 1----------- ------ ------ ------ Lvice-----------------------------------------------1..........................----- 41b - --------------------------------------------- 1------------ ------ ------ --- 3 --------------------------------------- 1..........................----- 2 ------------------------------ -------------- 2-2 -- ------ ------ Powder Copper I ----------------1-------------------------------- ----------------- Memasres 12 oz ----------------------------------- 1..........................----- j1 --------------------------------- 1 ------ --- ------ --opper-1. ------------------------------------------- ----1-------- ------ ------ ------ ---------! -- - -----------------------------1------ ------ ----------------- odd;__---------------------------------------------2--------------7



Page 612


612 HADADPAES Remain of Ordnance & Ordnance Stores at the Upper Posts in Canada.-Continued.. Detroit Micho S. R. U. S. R. U. Fuzes fixed 4 2,-5 Inch --------------------------------------------- 575------- ------ 100------ Ie9pr ------------------------------------------ I------ ------------------ 6e----------------------------------------1I--- ------ ------ Formers Cartridge 4---------------------2------- 1 --------------------- ----------------------- 2 --- ------ ------ -------------lbs------------------------- 2------ ------ --------7---- ------4 Flannelbys.--------------------------- ---------------------------- 40------------ ------------- Klnivelys Lbrtr------------------------------------------ 12----------------40 ------ ------ --- ------ Knve fabortrs ------------------------------------------ --12------ ------6....................... Kit ettles ----------------------------------------------1------- ---------- ------ M lles ettlers 4- 5Ic----------------------------------------------:3 --- ------ ------- Mallts&Stes425Ich Q----ick-----lbs----------------- 33------- ------ ------ ------ ------7 MowrcornQdicommon---------------------------------- * ------ 93------------ 9:47------ ------ --- ------ Powdrtfire stcks-- n------------------------ --------------------5-9:2----r- ------9:7--5---- ------- Poincerstpirks ---------------------- -------- --------------------5 ---1 -------5---------- Pancerscomonirs Sheets-------------------------------------------------- 19:12r-- --- ------------ PaspseHalfmRoundSees--------------------------------------------1----- ------ ------ 1:2------ --- Ras sHlfR----------------------------------------------- 18----------- 1 ------ ------ --- 121----------------------------------------------'40-------------------- 6 7 ------------------------------------2W------ -------- I---400------ ------40 6 J~II-------------30-----------------------------------40-------03--- 4 ----------------- 200------ ------ ----------------- Shot- in In boxes 1V2 oz mixt lbs------------------------------ ------ ------ ------- 15 ----- ------- Lead foreamusetts---------------------------------------------- ------ 41 --- --- 3 -Pr ---------------------------------------------- 30------ ------ ------ ------ -----1 -16 J------------------------------------30................. 12 ---- 91---------------12 14 --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- 9 ------ ------ ------ - - -- - - r6 Pr Light )------------ ---------------------- 21-------------21..... 88 ------- L Round fixt to wood bottoms & fiani fcartridge with Powder caps & covers 3 Pr Lightj --------------------------- 7------------------ 92 ------------ ------------- 6OPr Light Case do do -----------------------------1457-------- ------ 60 ---- -- Sht3 do do do ------------------------------ 87 ----------- ------ ------ 9 Pr ---------------------------------------------------- 30 ------------ ------------- Unfixed grape 4 ------------------------------ w---------------------2-------2 ------- Amusetts------------------------------------------------ ------ ------ ------ ------ 24 --- (42-5 Inch ------- --- 200 ------ -------29 _I. Randganades;-I_ _ ----------------------------2--------





Page 613


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

613

Reniain of Ordnance and Ordnance Stores at the Upper Posts in Canada-Continued



r

I

'Scrapers for shels 4 2-5 InchS cissors p airs ---------------------- ---------------------------------- 'Shears pairs - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - 'Saw s Tennant ------------ -------------------------------------------- Sieve Lawn-------------- -------------------- - 'S u ipher coarse lbs ----------------------------------------------------- Shot gauges 6 I Iron~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----------- - '12 M edium ------------ ---------- --------- --------- 6Light ~fixed-------------------- IS J..~...~.........~~~~ 'Tubes Tin Trables with Rubber for mealing Powder ---------------------------- Tin Sheets -------- ----------------------------- Funnel for filling shells 4 2-5 Inch -------------------------------- 'Worsted lbs -------------------------



Detroit. S. R. U. 8 3 - 10 1 1---------- 1 8 22 110:::::: 60 850 175 -- 1 ------ ----- 2 1----------

Mich. S. R. U. ----- I----- ------ 27i0

- ------ ------ -----

I



MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT, 3d April 1781 By the Felicity I did myself the Honor to forward my opinion of.'the Quantity of Provisions that could be purchased in the Settlement,.since which I have had a more particular survey taken, an Estimate I herewith enclose for your further information allowing the inhabitants the necessary milch cows and oxen for tilling the ground, few can be spared, some may be brought in from the Indian country but it is precarious, particularly at this time. -The prospect of getting up little Provisions this summer, and the Rebels threat'ning a visit, obliges me to send down the Prisoners, the most dangerous of them, such as have no families here & such as attempted their escape, I send first. I have the honor to be &c [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER. Brig. GenI Powell. [B 101, p 41]



Page 614


614

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT April 3rd 1781 SIR Lieut Ralfe Clinch, of Colonel Butlers Rangers, having signified his desire to succeed to the Ensigncy in the King's Regiment, I take the opportunity of recommending him for the vacanoy in the present succession, if not already filled up. I dare say Colonel Butler will not be surprized to hear the young Gentleman is desirous of returning to his old acquaintances having been a Volunteer, iin the Kings for nearly a twelve months and distinguished himself so under Captain Bird, that the Regiment regretted much the loss of so promising a young man. If through your intercession Mr. Clinch should succeed, you will greatly oblige Sir Your humble & obedient Servant [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER. Brig. Genl. Powell [B 101, p 41] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT, April 4th 1781 SIR, By the Felicity which sailed on the 18th Ult. I did myself the honour to acquaint you with every transaction worth your notice, at and near the Post, since which Mr. Alex McKee arrived here with some principal chiefs of the Mingoes, Delawares, Wyandotts and Shawanese, who declare they have every reason to believe, that Mr. Clarke is to enter their country this summer with three thousand mnen and some cannon, they therefore have brought the Belt of Alliance with them, to claim the assistance heretofore promised, upon the like occasions, declaring that if not assisted must fall back and be maintained here, or make the best Peace for themselves they can; I have accounts from all quarters that an expedition is intended against the Indian Country, and even to this part, if they can find passage. I wish it was in my power to assist the Indians with a Body of Troops to give a decisive stroke to Mr. Clarke's incursions into the Indian Country, being informed by some of the Prisoners that should he fail in this attempt, the settlers upon Kentuck will leave that country altogether. Mr. McKee informs me that the People of Kentuck are night and day employed in removing their Families and Effects to a large Settlement called Bryant's Station, where they hope to remain in security



Page 615


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO GEN. POWELL.

during Clark's expedition, that they are gathering Magazines in different quarters one of which some of our Indians under Mr. Elliott (who I sent from here) have burnt. I now send down one of their Depy. Commissaries by name Hinton, who confirms the same, he was taken by Simon Girty driving his team to collect the salted meat he had contracted for. The Wyandott takes down twelve Prisoners as p' enclosed List, should any of them get into that country again, it may be attended with very bad consequences. The Indians have the alarm amongst them that Colonel Campbell, who I send down in Novr. (1779) has got back to Fort Pitt; I am sure the report is not true therefore have endeavoured to settle their minds; They say it would be using them cruelly to let them fight twice against the same Person. I have just had time to copy a speech received from the Miamis where assistance is also demanded, I enclose it for yours and Colonel Johnson's information and hope you'll forward it to His Excellency the Commander in Chief. The Miamis must be content to defend themselves, with or even without Captain Thompson, should he be required with his Rangers in the Shawanese Country-nor can I at present spare the Lake Indians to go towards Post Vincents. I am collecting them in order to form a Camp at Sandusky, besides the Maskontins, Kikapous, &c. being rather disaffected, as appears by their Speech, it would be best first to bring them over once more to our way of thinking. I have Scouts out in every quarter & hope soon to give you some certain accounts of the Enemy's motion if they really intend it. Capt. McKee proposes to go to Niagara with two or three of their principal chiefs, who are desirous of speaking with the Six Nations. He will be able to give the result of a Council held at this place as soon as the Indians, can be assembled. I have the honor to be Sir Your most obedient & humble Servant " [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER. Brigad ' Genl. Powell Endorsed: Copies of Three Letters from Major De Peyster to Brig. Geal. Powell, two of which are dated the 3d and the other the 4th of April at Detroit. [B 101, p 42]



Page 616


616

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

BRIG. GEN H. WATSON POWELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA April 7h 1781. SIR I have the honor to transmit copies of some letters which I have received from Major De Peyster, by which it appears the Enemy meditates some blow against the Upper Posts; so soon as their movements ascertain their intentions, all possible assistance shall be given to the Post threatened, and as there has been frequent demands of Ordnance from Detroit, I shall send immediately from this Post one Iron twelve Pounder and two nine ditto which I believe this Garrison can spare., A proportion of ammunition shall be sent with them, but it would be imprudent.to send the forty barrels of Powder demanded, as I am informed the Merchants there have a great quantity. Your Excellency will see that it is necessary to supply that post with provisions, and I am afraid it will be very difficult to transport it to Fort Erie, if a vessel is not stationed upon the lower communication, and should there be but one I am afraid the merchants of Detroit will be obliged to find people to transport their goods from Fort Schlosser to Fort Erie. A Letter from Lieut Governor Sinclair of the 22nd of Feby. mentions that Captain Mompesson is carrying on a half Bastion and part of the curtain, with as much industry as the season will permit, but that the timber is of a very indifferent quality and cannot last above four years. I beg leave to recommend to your attention Mr. Mitchell's letter. I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir Your Excellency's most obedient & most humble Servant H. WATSON POWELp From Brig. Geni. Powell of the 7h April, received the 19h with 6 enclosures marked in Red 1. [B 101, p 46] BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA April 10th 1781 SIR, The enclosed Letter will lay before your Excellency such further Information as has been received, relative to' the intentions of the



Page 617


CAPT. JOHN TO COL. DANIEL CLAUS.61

617

Rebels, should Major De Peyster find that their movements are intended against Detroit I have desired him to send for some of the Rangers and Indians from hence, in order to be employed at Sanduskie, or wherever they may be most wanted, but as the state of our Provisions will not admit of their being long in camp, it would be wrong to send them till they were really wanted. The guns mentioned in my last were sent off, and I have ordered the Provisions left last Fall at Fort Schlosser and Fort Erie, to be forwarded, and propose sending more as it arrives. The Letter of recommendation yesterday respecting Lieut. Clinch so strong in itself as to render anything I could say on that subject unnecessary. I hope the dispatches sent from hence the 20h Feby. arrived safe. As fast as Prisoners arrive here they shall be forwarded. I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir Your Excellency's most obedient His Excellency most humble Servant General IHaldiinand H. WATSON POWELL Endorsed: From No 5 1781. Brig. Powell of the 10h April Reed 19h with 5 enclosures marked 5. [B 101, p 55] DANIEL SERVOS TO COL. DANIEL CLAUS. Extract from Daniel Servos' Letter (an officer in Colonel Johnson's service) Carleton Is' 12 April 1781. " Capt. Brant is set out from Niagara with about 30 Indians to go "towards Detroit *thro all the In Villages, as it is supposed the "Rebels will form an Expedition either to Detroit or the Indian "Towns." To Col. Claus. DAN SERVOS. [B 114, p-170] CAPT. JOHN TO COL. DANIEL CLAUS. Elxtract transmitted from Capt. John ye Mohawks Letter to Col. Claus Carleton Island- 12th April 1781. " I am sorry to find myself disappointed in not meeting with Joseph "Brant after coming so far & waiting so long at this place; However "II am determined to go against the Enemy from hence in 3 days



Page 618


618

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

"with 40 men all six Nations expecting to be back in about twenty days." " I must entreat you to represent to Asseregon how the officers go "on at Niagara that he may interfere and stop to preserve our mutual "peace and welfare." JOHN DESERENTION MOHAWK. [B 114, p 170] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC April llh 1781. SIR I have received your Letter of the 18h February covering copies of Letters from Major De Peyster & Capt. Grant. The event at St. Josephs is very unfortunate and ought to convince the Traders of the impropriety of permitting large quantities of goods to be sent into remote Quarters, where they cannot be protected. The accident which has happened to the two small vessels at Michilimackinac encrease our difficulties in the Transport of provisions &c, already too burdensome. To I am Sir &c Brig Genl Powell [signed] FRED HALDIMAND [B 104, p 193] WM. BARR TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. THREE RIVERS SIR, 13th April 1781. The Season now approaches for sending an Hospital Mate to relieve Mr. Menzies Surgeon of the 84th Regiment at Detroit. But the present weak or rather dispersed situation of the mates of the Hospital, which Your Excellency will see by the enclosed return, makes it difficult to find a mate for that service, unless you are pleased to break up the General Hospital at St. Johns, or to order Mr. Blake Surgeon of the Garrison at Montreal to do the little duty at that place; in either case, the mate at St. Johns or the mate at Montreal may be sent to Detroit. We have only one mate with the Hospital here and could wish to have two, however we must submit to this inconveniency for some



Page 619


MAJ. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

619

time, it not being possible to get a supply of mates in the country properly qualified unless they are taken from the Regiments, and that perhaps would be easing one part of the service at the expence of another. I have -been informed that there is a good young man of the name of Stiles, Surgeons' mate to the 34th Regiment, but perhaps the corps may be unwilling to part with him. There is also one Mitchell, mate to the 8th Regiment at Michilimackinac, who I believe is a good man if he could be spared from that Post. I have the honour to be with the highest respect Your Excellency's most obedient & very humble Servant WM. BARR. [B 197, p 126] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT April 17th 1781. Intelligence received by Mr. Elliot who arrived last night from the Shawanese Country. That on the 8th Inst. Three Prisoners were brought into the Shawanese Villages, by a Party of that Nation, taken upon the Ohio, they say they were Deserters from Weeling, a Rebel Post upon the Ohio below Fort Pitt, and that the whole regular force of that country does not exceed 200 men divided in the following manner, 110 men at Fort Pitt, 30 at Beaver Creek, 30 at Weeling the place they deserted from, and about 30 more dispersed through the country at farm Houses. Colonel Clarke who commanded upon the Kentucky is appointed a General, and his command now includes Fort Pitt, and all the Enemies Forts upon the Ohio, (Broadhead being recall'd) that he had applied some time in the winter to the convention, of Virginia for two- Regiments to join those that could be raised upon the Kentucky to make a Campaign in the Spring in order to subdue the Indians and penetrate to Detroit, but was referr'd from thence to Congress, who refused that number and gave him an order for only two companies, which made about one hundred men; At present he is building Boats, upon Redstone above Fort Pitt, to transport him with eight Families to the Falls, that his intention is to leave that some time in the beginning of May. This information determined the Indians to send in Mr. Elliot to this place to request



Page 620


620

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

a few men with a cannon to join them as- quick as possible at the Ohio, to enable them to intercept Mr. Clarke- on his passage down, being fully of opinion that if they are successful against him they will have nothing to fear from the Enemy this season. [B 101, p 56] WM. BARR TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. TROIS RIVIERES SIR. 19th April 1781. On the receipt of your Excellency's Letter of the 16th Indt I informed Mr. Harffy that he was to embark by the first opportunity and proceed with all convenient Expedition for Detroit to relieve Mr. Menzies Surgeon of the 84th Regiment there. At the same time I wrote a Line to Mr. Blake acquainting Him that it was your pleasure, he should take charge of the few sick in the Hospital at Montreal. If the young man Your Excellency has been pleased to appoint Supernumerary mate of the Hospital, could join us soon it would be very agreeable, Because Mr. Pearce the Mate here, is at present some what indisposed. I have the Honor to be with the highest Respect Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servt. His Excellency WM. BARR. General Haldimand. [B 197, p 129] MEMORIAJL OF THE MERCHANTS OF MONTREAL. To His Excellency Frederick Haldimand Captain General and Commander in Chief of His Majesty's Province of Quebec and the Territories depending thereon in America, Vice Admiral of the same, General and Commander in Chief of His Majesty's Troops in said Province and Frontiers thereof. The Memorial of the Merchants of Montreal trading to the Grand Portage or North West. Humbly Sheweth. That this trade in which they are deeply concerned cannot be carried



Page 621


MEMORIAL OF THE MERCHANTS OF MONTREAL.

621

on without large supplies of Indian Corn and other Provisions with which your Memorialists have been usually provided from the Settlement of Detroit as it is impracticable to carry them from hence: particularly Indian Corn because it would require such an augmentation of Canoes with men to work them as to accumulate the expenses far beyond any benefit they could hope to reap by the Trade. That your Memorialists being informed by their Correspondents at 'Detroit that there is no probability for leave to send any Indian Corn or other Provisions to Michilimakinac for the purpose of supplying the North West Trade, are strongly apprehensive that after they shall have transported their goods to Michilimackinac they may fail in procuring Provisions at that Post also; in which case they must be reduced to the painful necessity of abandoning that valuable branch of Trade and consequently incurr very heavy losses. Your Memorialists therefore pray that Your Excellency will take their case into your serious consideration and grant them such relief in the premises as in your wisdom may appear proper: humbly suggesting as the most effectual means they can think of, that your Excellency would be pleased to grant them a particular Licence or order addressed to the officer commanding at Detroit to suffer them to purchase five hundred bushels of Indian Corn at that Post, as with that assistance and extraordinary efforts from hence in Canoes, they will be enabled to carry on the North West Trade, dtherwise it will be out of their power to continue it to the great prejudice and detriment of many individuals, as well as considerable loss to the Province, the annual Produce of that Trade in Furrs being equal to thirty thousand pounds sterling. MONTREAL 19h April 1781. TODD & McGILL SIMON McTAVISH McGILL & PATTERSON GEO. McBEATH & CO. WADEN & STGERMAIN / FORREST OAKES JAS PORTEOUS BENJ. & JOS. FROBISHER HOLMES & GRANT Endorsed:-Meinorial concerning Indian Corn for the N. W. Trade. [B 217, p 226]



Page 622


622

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC 20h April 1781. SIR, I was in readiness this morning to send off my dispatches in answer to those by the last Express, when yours by the Lake arrived. I am pleased to find the navigation so early open, and that our Naval preparations have been so industriously carried out as to enable us to avail ourselves of it notwithstanding the various misfortunes which have lately attended that Department. I have no doubt the Transport will be well forwarded this season. In answer to your letter of the 7th Instant covering a copy of a letter to you from Major De Peyster, Letters from Messrs McKee, Coon and Mitchell to him. The proceedings in Council with him at Detroit and a demand of Ordnance for that place, I have to observe to you upon the Principal subject of the Majors Letters that whatever may be the fears of the Enemys in that quarter the variety of obstacles opposed to an attempt of the Enemy upon so large a scale as is reported are so apparent as to leave but little room for apprehension at least for the safety of Detroit. If any credit is to be given to news papers & repeated corroborating reports, the Kings Troops have successfully penetrated into Virginia, and perhaps are now in possession of a great part of it, every nerve was stretched\to assemble an army to oppose them, but we do not hear that it was affected, in that state it can hardly be supposed they could spare 2,000 men, for a campaign in the Indian Country where the difficulties of conducting a much less force are well known to Mr. Clarke. The Train of Military Stores, Provisions, &c, necessary for so large a body of men, are not easily collected & much less so conveyed over a Tract of Country so considerable and so fertile of difficulties. I consider Detroit in its present situation a respectable post, & not to be reduced except by a regular and formidable attack & with such artillery as the Enemy cannot possibly bring against it. That they will employ every means to keep possession and establish their settlements in the country of Kentuck, I have no doubt. The Indians should have chosen & foreseen the difficulty of removing them, and vigorously opposed their first Incursions. If they really wish to keep them out of their country & are unanimous & resolute, there cannot be a doubt of their effecting it still, but it will never be done by falling back in large parties at Detroit councilling & soliciting succours which it is evidently not in our power to afford them, & these wants & disappointments are enumerated and repeated merely to pro

Page 623


GEN. HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

623

cure provisions & presents which once obtained they become idle & inactive until prompted by succeeding wants. Major De Peyster has naturally employed every possible means by which he can best procure authentic intelligence by which he will be able to Judge of the Enemy's designs & will dispose of the Force he has accordingly. As the Indians do expect assistance, Major De Peyster will of course give them a few Rangers or such small Detachment of active Troops Sas he can spare, merely to encourage them. From hence it is impossible to send a man untill the Enemy's views can be seen into, & then it will probably be necessary. You have done perfectly right not to weaken your garrison upon the reports you have received for if anything serious is intended against this Province you will probably find it necessary rather to call assistance from thence, the route by Oswego being evidently the most eligible to effect their purpose, & their success in that quarter, secures to them Detroit. It is natural to suppose if this is their intention, that they will show themselves in some force upon the Ohio as well to keep possession of Kentuck and to amuse Detroit & to prevent Troops being sent from thence. In all events, all that can be done in the present situation of affairs is to keep intelligent scouts constantly abroad, in all quarters, not composed entirely of Indians, and these should have positive directions not to discover themselves by taking scalps, but to endeavour to bring off prisoners & learn what is doing in the country. I should think Scouts might be sent to Sandusky and that quarter, tho' not with so much facility from Niagara as Detroit, yet be very useful, having directions to separate to both places with any intelligence of moment they may procure. If the merchants at Detroit have a sufficient quantity of pouder in case of emergency, you have done well not to send any as there good purposes are answered by it. S Their Provisions is certainly the first object & by Major De Peyster they cannot expect great assistance from the settlement, it is therefore absolutely necessary to push up a supply from. Niagara, a small vessel or two for that purpose must be stationed below Fort Erie, as you will._see by my letter on Naval Affairs. Those difficulties for Provisions point out the necessity of vigourously executing the plan of cultivation recommended that of Hog Island, strongly to Major De Peyster & wish he will consult with the proper persons if a wind mill may not answer upon it if found eligible, & that he has the means to execute it, let it be done immediately.



Page 624


624

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Mr. Greverot's conduct is very suspicious he should certainly be kept in security & free from all intercourse with the inhabitants untill his professions are authenticated. I wish to forward expeditiously the removal of the Posts to the Island of Michilimackinac. The badness of the Timber cannot be helped it will answer the present purpose & with more leisure it may be found and sawed with stones. The Times are very unfavourable to complyance with Mr. Mitchel's request, Surgeons being at present much divided & difficult to be procured. However if the King's Regt. should be relieved, I shall endeavour to fall upon means to prevent his leaving Michilimackinac, should he persevere in his intention. I am &c [signed] FRED. HALDIMAND. Endorsed: Copy 1731 To Brig. Genl. Powell of the 20th April. [B 104, p 198] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC 21st April 1781 SIR I am directed by His Excellency the Commander in Chief to acquaint you that your letters of the 7h Inst. were received yesterday. His Dispatch in answer to yours by the last Express being closed, he sends it off that no time may be lost in getting through the business of the Court Martial, but your several letters will be fully answered in a few days, in the mean time I am commanded to signify to you His Excellency's perfect approbation of your not sending any Troops from your Post to reinforce Detroit untill the necessity shall appear urgent. I am likewise directed to communicate to you in confidence that His Excellency has reason to think a general attempt against this Province is intended & that whatever is to be apprehended for the upper country will be directed by Oswego, where it is probable they will take Post, if this stroke against Canada is really intended it is absurd to imagine they would encounter the difficulties in their way to Detroit when it must of course fall should they find the views in the lower part of the Province and to the Mohawk River so much more practicable succeed, Detroit is to call our attention & divide our Force, and the general desires you will without declaring your reason take every measure than can give security to your Post, and have in view such as will best



Page 625


CAPT. MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

625

oppose the progress of the enemy, upon Oswego River, to which end it will be necessary that you keep out continually the most intelligent scouts you can procure, that you may be apprised of the enemy's motions. -It is certain that extra provisions and canon have been forwarded to Fort Stanwix that Mr. Washington has been some time at Albany on a pretence of accommodating matters with the state of Vermont, & it is said two regiments of Provincial Troops are there likewise, whatever are their views they cannot be too closely watched. you must remember Hudibras, he was obliged on very short notice to fly, information being lodged against him he was sent immediately to Albany with his budget of Information, by this misfortune the only channel of intelligence that could be depended upon is shut up and the general is reduced to the reports of common scouts for information from that important quarter. His Excellency directs you will make an effort to assist him in this matter by consulting with Colonel Butler, in whose corps there are many intelligent men, who can be depended on, & whose connections and knowledge of the country make them fit persons to be employed in that way, they might pass for deserters, saying they were tired of your service, and had escaped from it and when settled in the country might collect news papers & collect all intelligences stirring, and some house or place should be fixed on where, they might deposit the same or communicate with others in confidence, sent for that purpose, or being certain of the Enemy's motions or any other important news might set off with it themselves for any of the Posts they could first reach. Whoever you shall find to undertake and execute this Trust you may assure will be handsomely rewarded. The general proposes employing some men from hence upon this business as soon as the roads are practicable, and by comparing the reports of different persons, he would be able to form some Judgement of the whole I am &c rsigned] R MATHEWS Endorsed Copy No 4 Private 1781, Page 38 To Brig Genl. Powell.of the 21st April [B 104, p 206] 79



Page 626


626

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC 23d April 1781. SIR I have received your letter of the 10h Instant Covering Copies of Letters to you from Major De Peyster and Captain Grant and other papers relative to the Schooner Hope, reporting the state of that Vessel, which altho' impossible to present might surely have been discovered earlier had the article of regulations for surveys been attended to, and the necessary repairs made against the opening of the navigation. Consistent with the other branches of the service, and the Resources in the Province, it would be highly improper to begin the construction of new Vessels upon Lake Erie, but no opportunity should be lost of providing timber in order that if circumstances should be pressing a vessel may be built during the ensuing winter, in the mean time from the Information of Capt. Schank and others I conceive the service of the Transport &c. cannot suffer if the enclosed Dispositions of the vessels takes place. A strict observance of this arrangement may be rendered improper by many local circumstances for the motions of the Enemy may render it expedient to have more vessels at the Miamis, or the Exigencies of the Transport may be such that even this small one cannot be spared, besides it may require more time than is supposed to arm the Wiandott in which case the Faith may take that station for a part or for the whole summer, therefore any alterations which the Commanding officer of the Post and of the Naval Department shall see necessary for the Kings service to be made. The Asst. Builder did his duty in representing to Capt Grant the decayed state of the Hope and for his Justification he might be permitted to do this in writing but if Capt. Grant chose to take the consequence upon himself the assistant builder ought not to have said more upon the subject. Mr. Robertson as clerk of the cheque, ought not to interfere with the ordering or requesting any surveys of vessels that Branch of the service being entirely dependant on the senior naval officer. These matters will be more fully mentioned, by Capt. Schank. The merits of the late Capt. Andrews & the necessity of his widow strongly induce me to comply with your request in his favour & some mode of relief, shall be considered of for her, to assist in which be so good as to learn from her what her views are with respect to her place of



Page 627


GEN. HALDIMAND TO COL. DANIEL CLAUS.

627

residence, disposal of her family, and in the mean time please to give her fifty Pounds Halifax Currency and draw upon Mr. Drum for it. Inclosed is a Copy of a Letter to Colonel Clause from Molly I have not said any thing of it to Colonel Johnson, least it might create Jealousy but if what she advances is well founded, You will be good enough to do whatever may be necessary to accommodate the matter and see that Colonel Johnson, gives that support to Joseph which his services & attachment to Government really merit. I am Sir &c [signed ] FRED. HALDIMAND

L- <7 - -I

Endorsed:Copy 81 To Brig. Genl. Powell at Niagara 23d. Apl. [B 104, p 212]

0

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO COL. DANIEL CLAUS.

QUEBEC 23rd April 1781 SIR I have received your letter of the 19h Instant covering one Extract of one from Molloy & others at Carleton Island, the contents of which gave me concern being very sensible of Joseph's merit and desirous that he should meet with every encouragement it deserves. I have Letters from Brig G. Powell & Col. Johnson dated the 10h Inst. neither of which mention a word of the affair. the latter says Joseph is gone with 19 of the Six Nations to Detroit with Belts to encourage the Indians of that neighborhood & the Shawanese in particular to a vigorous resistance should their country be invaded as reported. I thought it best not to mention Joseph's affair to Colonel Johnson, least it might create Jealousy, but I have wrot to Br. G. Powell to see that every Justice is done him, & to recommend to Colonel Johnson to afford him every encouragement & support. Captain Mathews will transmit you a warrant for ~1700 on account. I am &c. Col. Claus [signed] FRED. HALDIMAN)D Copy, 1781 To Colonel Claus of the 23d April, [B 114, p 173]



Page 628


628

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. SIR I have received your Letter of the 10th Instant covering copies of Letters from Major De Peyster, one from Capt Thomson to him, an estimate of Provisions &c, in the settlement of Detroit, a speech from the French and Piankishaws to the Miamis Indians, their answer thereto, & a speech from them to Major de Peyster, the principal subject of your Letter & of the Major's to you is answered in the fullest manner, in my power by my Letter of the 20h accompanying this, the seeming firmness of the Miamis is very pleasing, and Paken's speech would do honor to more renowned orators, it is very unfortunate that circumstances do not admit of indulging their desire so earnestly expressed of cutting off Post Vincennes. I earnestly wish it were practicable to extirpate that reprobate settlement for while it exists it will be a continual source of alarm to the Indians and a receptacle for our Enemies from the Missipi & other countries. In regard to Prisoners that you send down here at all times I must refer you to my Letters of the 6th January as Major De Peyster tells you there are some he does not think safe at Detroit it is probable they are Canadians & would be still less so here. Major De Peyster may safely assure the Indians they never fight a second time against the Prisoners sent down here, and that Col. Campbell is now in confinement at Chambly, where he shall remain as long as he has the inclination or the power to hurt them. I am &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND To, 1781. Brig. Genl. Powell of the 24h April [B 104, p 215] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO COL. JOHNSON. QUEBEC 24h April 1781. SIR Your Letter of the 8h Inst. was received the 20h and' with it a return of the Indian Department and the War Parties now on Service. My answer to your Letter by the last Express will inform you that the Indian Corn for the new settlements was in readiness for the first conveyance from COteau du Lac, & I hope it is now sent off. I am pleased that you procured some from Detroit to make a beginning &



Page 629


MAJOR DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

629

I earnestly recommend to you to persevere in encouraging the Settlements already began, & all others whose situations favor cultivation & are most convenient for watching the Enemy's motions. The many obstacles to the Enemy penetrating far into the Country towards Detroit, with such a force as to be alarming must be obvious to all who consider them, and if the Indians in that quarter are determined to do their duty to the King and to themselves it is impossible their attempts can succeed. The Defeat of so large a body of the Enemy by a few Shawanese last year is a Proof of what Indians can do against an Enemy advancing if they are resolute & Judiciously disposed of. Be the Designs of the Virginians what they may, it is our Business diligently to watch them in all Quarters & many small Intelligent Scouts sent out merely to procure Information and take Prisoners would answer their Purpose, and be more useful to the Service than by discovering themselves & taking a few Scalps or attacking an insignificant post, these may not prevent small War Partys. I am sorry for Joseph's disappointment, his falling in with so large a Convoy of Provisions would have been a fortunate circumstanceshis zeal for the King's service is however not the less manifest, assure him I have a perfect sense of it, & that I am pleased he had an opportunity of repairing his bad luck by taking so many Prisoners. Please to find from them the name of their Major who left Fort Stanwix, whether he went to Albany or was expected to return. I am Sir &c. &c. [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Colonel Johnson [B 107, p 222] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT 25th April 1781. SIR, I am favoured with your Letters of the 7th and 10th of April, you will see by the annexed Intelligence that Mr. Clark has failed in his application for procuring a sufficient Body of Troops to enable him to penetrate this far, it is nevertheless thought he will enter the Indian country with about one Thousand men as I have had a council with the Indians upon the Subject the 5th Inst. the substance of which I now forward. You will see the steps I proposed to take and which will be necessary for me to pursue in order to please the Indians who still persist iii having the assistance of their Brethren from Detroit.



Page 630


630

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

Letters from Captain Thompson mention that the Wabasche Indians are flocking in to speak with Him that these are now above four hundred strange Indians at the Miamis. The Scouts from Post Vincents are not yet returned. By this opportunity I also forward two french setters just received'from an Indian, which will give some more insight into the late Colonel Le Balms mission, and fully expose the sentiments of the People of Post Vincents. 27th - - -. Held a Council yesterday the proceedings of which I enclose-at the end of the Council you will see the substance of Mr. Cochran's letter in some measure confirmed. The Indians are extremely troublesome in order to procure Troops to be sent with them to St Dusky, Joseph being convinced it is not in my power, wishes that such Rangers as could be spared from Niagara, were sent. The Gage will soon be in order to sail. Should Intelligence then arrive, to make such a step more necessary than what it really appears to me at present, I will dispatch her with it. I have the Honor to be Sir Your most obedient Servant [signed] A' S. DE PEYSTER. P. S. The Gage not being ready to sail, and as I am in doubt, if the Wiandott must not go to Sandusky (two or three days will however determine it) I have ordered the master of the Felicity to wait for your dispatches. Brigadr General Powell Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from Major De Peyster to Brig. Genl. Powell dated at Detroit the 25th and 27th April 1781. [B 101, p 59] JOSEPH BTE PARENT TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. [Translation] SIR Having been assured by different persons of your clemency & justice. I take the liberty of informing you truly of my situation & what has happened to me since I left Canada which was in the Spring of 1759. Since that time I have been in the Illinois where I traded on behalf of Spain. I obtained from Mr. Laijba Commandant of Poste St. Louis permission to go & trade in the little Makonite twenty miles from Prairie du Chien, where I had all my stock in provisions; that I had always done my best for the travellers 'from Montreal who passed me & have alwvays assisted them as far as in my power. I had last winter



Page 631


LT. GEN. SINCLAIR TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

631

a large amount of goods belonging to the (grand societ6) which I had kept back for fear that they would be stolen by the Rebels as they threatened the goods which I sent to St Quiay having heard at the same time that Sieur Gautier, Interpreter & conductor of a party sent by order of the Governor of Michillimakinak to the Illinois had arrived at la prairie & as he had a large company to feed I offered him all that I had, but what was my surprise three days afterwards the same people whom I had many times obliged announced to me that I was a prisoner, also all who were with me & my goods confiscated. I did not know then that England had declared war against Spain & held out but one of them being my friend told me it was so. I then put down my arms on the 9h of April 1780. I was taken to Michillk & appeared before Mr. St Clair, I showed him my proofs & credentials & on the information which he had of my conduct treated me with humanity & offered to send me to Montreal when an opportunity offered. The day of my departure being come I had the honor of going to him to ask for his orders & the permit which I had placed with him; he answered me that I could leave quietly & that he had sent in a packet addressed to you the said permit. Since my arrival at Montreal I have not dared to trouble you but finding myself without any employment for my family, I ask if Your Excellency would give me permission to go to Michillimakinak where I have some interest or to Detroit where my mother is, be assured Sir, that if you will give me this favour I will stay strictly within the bounds you have the honor to prescribe & you will, all my life have me under an obligation & with the greatest thanks I am with the most profound respect The most humble obedt Servant J. BT PARENT MONTREAL 28h April 1781 Endorsed. 1781 Letter of Joseph Parent prisoner sent from Michillimakinak to Montreal of the 28h April. [B 176, p 69] LT. GEN. PATRICK SINCLAIR TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. SIR, I am honoured by your Letter of date 16h February, commanding attention to a saving of Provisions, which shall be strictly obeyed. The accidents conjectured to have happened to the two vessels, at



Page 632


632

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

this Post, were reported without my knowledge, and are of no consequence. The one carries this to Detroit, and the other serves to bring what useful materials remained at the old Fort. I beg leave to observe that no materials were sent for the repair of either. If an armed vessel can be spared for the use of this Post, our situation on an Island very much requires it. -I have the honor to enclose a Return of the Garrison, and a Return of Provisions as delivered by the acting Commissary on their Removal a survey will be taken. The Troops, Provisions & Stores will be secured about the latter end of May, by one half Bastion and half curtain Log Work, and the other sides of the New Fort picketted: which I shall attempt to have the honour of describing to you on Paper by next opportunity; The Deserters at St. Josephs and what threaten any Traders permitted to go there in future, or towards the Mississippi, oblige me to entreat, the honor of your directions respecting that matter, as well as the conduct to be observed towards the Settlers on both sides of the Mississipi who seem to have only in view the Pillage of the Trade of the Province. It was their intended scheme many years ago as soon as the interested motives of their Traders and ours clashed. Lieut de Quindre has very much imposed on Major De Peyster in assuming the merit of recovering the Traders property in the first attempt on St. Josephs. Monsieur Etienne Campion known to several officers of Rank in Canada, perhaps the honor of being known to you for his zeal and services to government performed that service. I am sorry that Lieut De Quindre did not attend that Post when Mr. Champion's affairs, called him from St. Josephs to this Post. I have the Honor to be Sir Michilimackinac Island with the greatest respect 1st May 1781 your most obedient and most humble Servant Brig. Genl. Powell. PATT. SIiOLAIR Lt. Governor. Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from Lieut Gov. Sinclair to Brig. Genl. Powell dated Michilimackinac Island let May 1781. [B 101, p 62]



Page 633


INDIAN DEED FOR THE ISLAND OF MACKINAC. INDIAN DEED FOR THE ISLAND OF MACKINAC.

633

(2)

Kitchie Negon his mark The mark of Pouanas Mark of Ponanas' & Kauase the same Nation but different Chiefs

By these Presents we the following Chiefs Kitchie Negon or Grand Sable, Pouanas, Koupe and Magousseihigan in behalf of ourselves and all others of our Nation the Chipiwas who have or can lay claim to the herein mentioned Island, as being their Representatives and Chiefs, by and with mutual consent do surrender and yield up into the hands of Lieut Governor Sinclair for the Behalf and use df His Majesty George the Third of Great Britain France and Ireland King Defender of the Faith &c. &c. &c. His Heirs Executors, Administrators for ever the Island of Michilimackinac or as it is called by the Canadians La Grosse Isle (situate in that Strait which joins the Lakes Huron and Michigan) and we do hereby make for ourselves and our Posterity a Renunciation of all claims in future to said Island; We also acknowledge to have received by command of His Excellency, Frederick Haldimand Esqr. Governor of the Province of Quebec, General & Commander in Chief of all His Majesty's Forces in Canada &c. &c. &c. from the said Lieutenant Governor Sinclair on His Majesty's Behalf, the sum of Five Thousand Pounds New York Currency being the adequate & compleat value of the before mentioned Island of Michilimackinac, and have signed two Deeds of this Tenor and Date in the presence of Mathew Lessey, John Macnamara, David Rankin, Henry Bostick, Benjamin Lyons, Etienne Campion, and P. Antoine Tabeau the under written witnesses, one of which Deeds is to remain with the Governor of Canada, and the other to remain at this Post to certify the same, and we promise to preserve in our Village a Belt of Wampum of Seven feet in Length to per

80



Page 634


634

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

petuate secure and be a lasting memorial of the said Transaction to our Nation for ever hereafter, and that no defect in this Deed from want of Law Forms or any other shall invalidate the same. In witness whereof We the above mentioned Chiefs do set our Hands Oka & Seals this Twelfth day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand seven Hundred and Eighty one and in the twenty First year of His Majesty's Reign. [signed] MATTHEW LESSEY BENJAMIN LYON DAVID RANKIN ETT CAMPION HENRY BOSTICK P. AN. TABEAU PATT SINCLAIR Lt. Gov' & Commandant. JOHN MOMPESSON Capt. Comg. a Detachment of the King's Reg't R. B. BROOKE Lieutenant King's or Eighth Regiment JOHN ROBERT MODONALL Ensign Kings or Eighth Regiment [B 114, p 178] CAPT. JOSEPH BRANT TO MESSRS. ISIDORE CHENE AND ELLIOT. UPPER SANDUSKY May 19th SIR, 1781 This is to acquaint you that we received our account last night from Moravian Town that they say there is two thousand Rebels is coming to this place in four Parties each of them five hundred, they intended to meet themselves about two days journey, from this place, two of the Moravian Indians brought this news. If this is true they can't be now far off from this, But I think you better remain still where you are, till you hear from us again, Because the news are not certain yet till our own spies return to us; Sir I will be very glad if you can send me five Gallons of Rum by the Bearer, I mean if you can do it conveniently; Also I wish you spare me eight Pieces Pork. George Girty and one Indian just arrived from the Shawanese Towns, brought a string of Wampum Message, from those different Nations, that they



Page 635


CAPT. CHENE TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

635

would be glad if they could get this ammunition as soon as possible which Major De Peyster promised them, and also would be happy if the Major would send some of his men to assist them, because they are now sure the Enemy will soon get into this Country. They think if he does not send men immediately it will be too late to assist them as it happened last summer. They have sent four different Parties for Spies, but not yet returned, they are doing according to the Major's desire, this is the purport of the message. I have it to yourselves whether you will let Major De Peyster know this news or not, do what you think is Best. It would not be amiss if you could get a few Horses and send up some of the Ammunition to this Place. I wish you to do all you can to encourage the Indians that came from Detroit who are not yet tired of staying there, for it won't be long before wý shall meet the Enemy. No more at present I remain your sincere Friend & Humble Servant Jos. BRANT. To Mess" Isidore Chene & Elliot. Endorsed: Letter from Capt. Joseph Brant Upper Sandusky May 19th 1781. [B 101, p 73 ] CAPT. ISIDORE CHENE TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER [Translation.] To Major De Peyster Commanding Detroit &c SANDUSKY 20h May 1781 SIR Capt. Brants letter will tell you the news. Mr Boulanger left on the 19h with two, volunteers, six Loups et four Odijpois to go to discover the road of the Riviere a la bouteille by which it is said the enemies come. I received some branches of porcelaine from the chief of the grand Huron village by which they ask help in the same terms as the Chaouenons. We heard that the chiefs of the different villages sent to distribute the ammunition & other thing to those from whom they were intended. The Indians trouble us much & threaten to leave us if I do not give" them bread & pork & allow them to go, as is their custom have a small action & return. All those who have come from Detroit have neither powder, ball nor



Page 636


636

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

anything that had been given to them, when I told them that I had been witness that Mr Baby had equipped them, they said that they had been stolen from them. Mr Arondel has not forty bushels of Indian Corn & three or four barrels of grease. We fear the want of powder for the daily consumption, Mr. Elliot & I have done our best to encourage themWe are with respect Sir Your very humble & obedient servants Copy & Extract HIZIDORE (Isidore) CHENE AND ELLEST Endorsed: Captain Isidore Chene to Maj. Depeyster dated Sandusky 20th May 1781 [B 182, p 346] BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALLDIMAND. NIAGARA May 28h 1781. SIR, I have the honor to transmit copies of some Letters I received the other day from Detroit, from which it appears the Rebels have made a movement towards the villages of Sandusky, but aspMajor De Peyster has not desired any more Rangers I shall not recall any from Oswego, unless something extraordinary happens, tho' this Post is very weak, and as soon as any reinforcement is sent to Oswego I hope your Excellency will be pleased to order the Detachment of the King's Regiment and as many of the Rangers to be sent back as can be spared. In consequence of the movement of the Rebels towards Sandusky, Skianquarahta has determined to proceed directly with 200 warriors into the neighbourhood of Fort Pitt, in order to make a Diversion. Captain Brant is likewise very desirous to go to Oswego with another large body, and as they are so much determined upon these two Scouts, and I thought they might be more usefully employed in that way than lying idle in their villages I have not opposed it. Should your Excellency have any occasion for the Indians, the most certain method to avoid being disappointed will be to send at the same time to Oswego and to this Post, as their return here will be uncertain and if you should have formed any particular plan for employing them this campaign I wish to be informed, that I may try to keep them in such a situation as will be most likely to co-operate with it. I have ordered the prisoners mentioned by Major De Peyster, to be sent down to Canada.



Page 637


LT. COL. MACBEAN TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

637

Provisions are sent forward to Michilimakinac,'but it is not in my power to comply with Lieut Governor Sinclair's Requisition, in respect to the Ordnance, should your Excellency think it necessary you will of course give orders to send it from Canada as there is none to spare here. I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir Your Excellency's most obedient & His Excellency most humble Servant General Haldimand H. WATSON POWELL Endorsed: From A 1782 B. Genl. Powell 28h May Recd lOh June [B 101, p 81] LT. COL. FORBES MACBEAN TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. SORELL June 4th 1781 SIR, As your Excellency did me the Honor to approve of a few Proposals on Artillery Matters which I took the liberty of laying before ybu dated the 5th April & was pleased to say you would write to me on those Subjects, I beg leave to remind Your Excellency more particularly of the second article of the proposals. Two volumes are now finished for your Excellency's use the first of which contains a State and Remain of all Ordnance & Stores on the 1st April last in all the Lower posts in Canada, that is from Quebec to Isle aux Noix Montreal included and the second contains a State of Ordnance stores at the Upper Posts in Canada viz-from Oswegatchie to Michilimackinac as they actualy stood on the 15th March last, they are in a small box which will be delivered to your Excellency by Major Lernoult. Your Excellency will please to signify your pleasure concerning the powder & stores lately demanded from hence for supply of the Posts of Carleton Island & Detroit which I desire Captain Bosthwick to lay before you; Whether whole, or a part, or what proportion of the quantities demanded your Excellency would have sent. In the list of the Army published June 30th 1780 by Authority of Secretary of war I see Lieut Dysart was promoted to Capt' Lieut in the Regiment of Artillery & to the Rank of Captain in the Army on the second Day of December 1779; I am to request your Excellency will please to order this promotion to be published in the general orders.



Page 638


638

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

As M' Schaw my present commissary has received notice of his being appointed to the same office in the Artillery Department at New Yorke and must repair thither by the first opportunity, my presence at Quebeo is become necessary for the settling various matters & accounts in the Artillery Department as well as my own private affairs previous to his departure. Your Excellency will be so good to signify your pleasure to me on this head. I have the honor to be with due respect Sir your most obedient and most humble servant FORBES MACBEAN From A 1781 Lient. Col. Macbean commanding at Sorrell of 4th June Reed. 6th [B 136, p 103J LT. GOV. PATRICK SINCLAIR TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. Extract of a Letter from Lt. Governor Sinclair MICHILIMACKINAO 6h June SIR, 1781. I enclosed a return of the Provisions in Store on the 2nd of June, with the Quantity wanted for 200 men to the 24h July 1782. The extraordinary number of Canadians which may be employed during the summer in the works, and the unusual number of Indians now here and expected in the course of the year, will make the consumption of Provisions exceed the calculation now sent. Every care shall be taken to lay in Corn and such articles as may lessen it, which I have hitherto attended to all in my power. 13he Provision Store is raised within the new Works; a powder magazine and the mens barracks are raising as fast as our scarcity of men, Tools and Materials will admit] This Island was ceded by the Indian Proprietors and surrendered by deed in form, in the presence of the officers of the Garrison, several chiefs of other Nations of Indians, and several Traders English and Canadian. Twenty Three Scioux Chiefs, all the Wimpawe Indians, some Minominies, and the neighboring Ottawas and Chippawas, have been here to give assurance of their steady friendship. The Indians to the westward gave such protection to their Traders, as deterred the Illinois, Pillagers from an Enterprize similar to that undertaken against St. Joseph's. They desire to know from me why they are withheld from checking" the



Page 639


LT. GOV. SINCLAIR TO BRIG. GEN POWELL.

639

Maroders from that Quarter, as they have withheld no proof of their. good Disposition towards the English, having on His Majesty's Birthday delivered up their French Medals. I have the honor to be &c To General PoWell. [B 101, p 86] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LT. COL. FORBES MACBEAN. QUEBEC 7 June 1781 SIR I have received your letter of the 4th Instant Acquainting me of your having sent by Major Lernoult two Volumes setting forth the particulars of the State and remain of Ordnance, Stores &c in this Province, I am much obliged by the trouble you have taken to procure for me this Information, & I am persuaded it is very complete. In regard to the Demands lately made from Carleton Island and Detroit for Powder and Stores, I have thought it best to defer sending those supplies until the Arrival of our Stores from England when we shall be better Able to proportion the quantities for the several posts according to their absolute wants and our abilities. As I cannot fail of having all late promotions officially transmitted to me, I must defer the Publication of Captain Dysarts Rank until I receive that information as partial Declarations might cause uneasiness to others in the same predicament. Your presence at Quebec being necessary you have my permission to come down whenever you shall think fit I am &c &c Iieut Colonel [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Macbean [B 139, p 48] LT. GOV. PATRICK SINCLAIR TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. Extract of a Letter from Lieut Governor Sinclair MICHILIMAKINAC 15h June SIR, 1781. The Sacks and Rhenards from the Banks of the Mississipi with the Menominie Indians, are arrived and more expected daily from their Tribes bordering on the Illinois Country, who have sent to inform me, they do not mean any longer to listen to the tales imposed on them by the Enemy. I have the honor to enclose a small sketch of what is

A



Page 640


640

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

done to the works here & what intended for the Lodgement of the Troops before winter I have the honor to be Sir &c. &c. To PATT: SINCLAIR General Powell. Lt. Governor [B 101, p 87] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. Extract of a Letter from Major De Peyster DETROIT 17h June 1781. SIR By a Prisoner Just brought in taken ten miles from the other side Fort Pitt we are informed that Broadhurst after having struck the Crooshockings went down to Philadelphia-we can give no account of Clerk; The Indians and other Prisoners still keep up the news of Clerks coming into this Country. I have the Honor to be Sir &c. &c. To Brigadier Genl Powell [B 101, p 98] CAPT. R. B. LERNOULT TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEO'20h June 1781 SIR His Excellency General Haldimand desires you will permit Sergt. Smith of the 47h Regiment now at Detroit under your orders, to repair without delay to Head Quarters at Quebec, where he will learn the General's command. I have the honor to be &c [signed] R. B. LERNOULT B. G. Powell Adjt. General [B 81, p 173] OAPT. R. B. LERNOULT TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. HID Q & QUEBEC 22nd June 1781 B. G. POWELL SIR His Excellency the commander in Chief, having made ample provision, for the future necessary wants of His Majesty's faithful Indian Allies at the Posts of Niagara, Detroit and Michilimackinac the officers



Page 641


"GEN. HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

641

commanding those several Posts and all officers belonging to the Indian Department are strictly required upon no account whatever, after the receipt of this order to purchase from the traders residing at the said Posts or any others, Rum, Liquors or any articles whatever for the use of Indians in behalf of the Crown'they are from time to time to make such, Calculations from the Rum and presents in the kings store as shall enable them to regulate the Consumption between the periods of supply's which may be considered about 20th August, as no circumstance whatever, will be admitted, a reason for not complying with this order. Yearly estimates Duplicates &c upon the most moderate Calculations of the presents wanted are to be regularly transmitted to Head Quarters so that they may be received before the 20th October. Returns of the Rum and presents issued and remaining in store, are likewise to be transmitted every six months specifying the Nations that have been supplied and the service rendered Notwithstanding all former orders prohibiting traders Inhabitants and all others, from purchasing recieving in pledge by exchange or in any shape whatever depriving an Indian of his or her presents received from Government, such practices are again Positively forbidden and the commanding Officers, and all others are required to use all possible means to discover such abuses and whoever, shall be detected therein if a trader or inhabitant is immediately to be sent to the Ground, and never again to be permitted to Trade at the post, where it shall happen or any other in the Indian Countries. I have the honor to be &c [signed] R. B. LERNOULT [B 81, p 173] Adjut General GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC 23d June 1781 SIR, Your Letter of the 20h Ultimo covering copies of a Letter from Lieut Governor Sinclair, and the report of the master builder up& the state of the Sloop Welcome is received, I am pleased that notwithstanding the damage that vessell, and the Angelica received in the winter they are now in use, Governor St. Clair has too much knowledge of sea affairs to run imprudent i'isks in navigating the former. In regard to that part of Lieut Governor Sinclair's letter respecting the dangers of the post at St Josephs nothing further can be done in the present situation of affairs than what I have already communicated 81



Page 642


642

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

to him, and his own knowledge and Judgement must dictate. Troops being sent for the protection of one or a few Traders is out of the question, if Traders are desirous to go there at their own risque they must take the consequence and Governor Sinclair, will have attention that none are allowed to go when Loyalty is suspected or be permitted to go amongst them. I As to the Settlers upon the Mississippi I do not see that anything can be done against them, Indians being the only instrument that can be employed, and unless it were to effect some object of moment the vast expence of fitting them out would over Balance the advantage to be derived. Governor Sinclair will of course improve every eligible occasion to distress them. I am Sir &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND Endorsed: 81 Brig. Genl. Powell at Niagara 23d June [B 104, p 227] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC 24h June 1781 SIR By command of His Excellency General Haldimand, I have' the h'onor to transmit to you the enclosed petition and account of Henry Simmons a ranger in Lieut. Col. Butler's Corps, which His Excellency is pleased to desire you will look into and direct the latter to be settled. The Petition explains itself and the good effect of its contents has been experienced. I am further directed to signify to you the general's desire that you will order to Quebec Serjeant William Smith of the 47th Regt. Your orders to detain the ships carpenter at Carleton Island have the Genell's fullest approbation and Mr. Robertson is wrote upon the subject of his order or requisition to Mr. Coleman. I am Sir &c. ' [signed] R. MATHEWS. Brig. Genl. Powell Endorsed: Copy 81. To Brig. Genl. Powell At Niagara 24th June [B 104, p 231]



Page 643


GEN. HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

643

GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC 21th June 1781 SIR I have received your Letter of the 8th Ultimo covering the Intelligence brought in by Lieut. Bowen of the Indian Department, the information of a Rebel Captain, and copies of a Letter and other intelligence from the Ohio transmitted by Major De Peyster, from the Latter. I cannot draw any conclusion different from that expressed in my last letter to you and would not by any means in the present situation of affairs wish to have any part of your Force removed from Niagara, the safety of Detroit not appearing to require it, and altho' I have not at present, it is uncertain what occasion I may have for the Rangers and Troops that can be spared from your Post. You will therefore please to keep them in perfect readiness for any service they may be called upon. I am Sir &c [signed] FRED. HALDIMAND. Brig. Genl. Powell [B 104, p 229] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC 24th June 1781 SIR f I have received with much concern your letter of the 20th Ultimo, covering the copy of a Letter from Major De Peyster and extracts of Letters for him from Capt Montpesson. Whoever has or have been the cause of the continual discussions at Michilimackinac can have the service of their King but very little at heart and are as indifferent of their own reputation, the situation of public affairs at present will iot admit of that investigation which a future time will I hope afford. A speedy and a radical cure must be applied you will therefore please immediately to order that Capt Aubrey with two subalterns & a like number of non-commissioned officers & private men of the 47th Regt as are now of the King's or 8th Regt at Michilimackinac, repair to that place without loss of time & that every officer & soldiers of the latter, the surgeon's mate excepted (& Sergt Phillips should Lt. Gov. Sinclair require it) be removed to Detroit.



Page 644


644

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

You will please to recommend to Capt. Audrey an attention to that harmony without which the King's service must ever suffer. Your Letter of the 13th Ultimo respecting a Detachment of the 47th being sent to the above post is herein answered. Capt Grant will receive orders immediately to Genl. Lieut Hara to do duty in this part of the Province. I am &c [signed] FRED. HALDIMAND. Brigadier General Powell Endorsed copy 1781 To Brigadier General Powell of the 24th June. [B 104, p 233] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. Extract of a Letter from Major De Peyster. DETROIT 28h June 1781. SIR By a Prisoner brought in from Pittsburg we are informed that a messenger from Lieut General Hamilton, for this place, was taken and sent with the Dispatches to Fort Pitt. It is said that Mr. Hamilton was on his Parole at Chesterfield Court House. I sincerely wish on Mr. Hamilton's account, that this news may not be true." To I have the honor to be Sir &c Brigadier Genl. Powell [B 101, p 98] State & Annual Consumption of Rum at the Upper Posts from June 1780 to June 1781. June to Dec. Dec. 80 to 1780 June 1781 gallons gallons Oswegatchie------------------------------------------------------- 167 187 Carleton Island--....--------- --------------------.------------- 3,383 4,496 Niagara----- - ------------------------------------------------ -- 3,948 8,325 Detroit ------------- ------- ------ ----------------------- 5,844 4,410 Michilimackinac...-------.........----------. ---------------------------- 759 1,050 14,101. 13,468 18,468 18,46 gallons Annual issue (Losses included)-..--------....--....----------------------. 27,569





Page 645


CAPT. MATHEWS TO LT. COL. CAMPBELL.

645

Remain'd at the upper Posts on the 24th June 1781. Prior to the receival of (& not including) any of the new Rum sent up this year. vzt. Gallons At Niagara ------------------10,657 Detroit------------------------ ------- 3,446 Michilimackinac ------------------2,475 17,578 Add the quantity forwarded this year--------------4---1,268 Total_ -- -- -------------- - 58,846 galls. Which if proportionately distributed should serve these Posts to the month of June 1783-supposing the issues to be the same as last year. NATHL. DAY Commy Genl. Endorsed: State & Annual Consumption of Rum at the Upper Posts Jne 1780 June 1781 [B 194, p 139] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. Lieut Col. Campbell QUEBEC 2nd July 1781. SIR, I am directed by His Excellency the Commander in Chief to acquaint you that he has received your Letter of the 28th Ulto. and as he wishes to keep perfectly distinct the accounts and expences of the upper Country Indian affairs from those of this Quarter of the Province. He desires that a General Account be made out by the Merchant, of the goods purchased for Niagara and Detroit, and transmitted to this office, for which a warrant separate, will be granted. In this account it may be right Just to distinguish the expences of the two posts by running up the amount of one, and adding the other to it. Please to direct that the accounts be made upon Fools-cap, on the Fixed Paper which warrants are made upon. I have the Honor to be &c Lieut Col. Campbell [signed] R. MATHEWS [B 113, p 137] LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. MONTREAL 12h July 1781 SIR I have already sent you an Acct or rather an Estimate of the amount



Page 646


646

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

of the goods sent to Niagara & Detroit for His Excellency General Haldimand's satisfaction. I have now the honour to Transmitt to you the amount of the purchase Expressly made for those two posts only; the articles sent over and above those contained in this acct. having been supplied out of the store here of which you will please to lay before His Excellency and I hope will meet with his approbation. I have the Honor to be with great regard Sir Your most obt. Servt JOHN CAMPBELL Capt. Mathews Lt. Col. [B 112, p 59] MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL.

DETROIT 12h July 1781.

SIR,

I have the pleasure to inform you that the Onia Indians have entered heartily in our cause, having lately attacked a Party of Rebels &. Indians under Captain Richard McCarty, near the Wabash-They killed McCarty, with some of his people and two Indians,' and have brought in Three Prisoners. I have all McCartys Papers, but they give no information other than that himself and all the Inhabitants of the Illenoise were heartily tired of the Virginians. The Onia Indians go off immediately to Join the Camp, now removed to the Village of Wakitomakie.

I am Sir Your most humble & obedt Servt. [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER

Brigad' General Powell [B 101, p 110]

INTELLIGENCE FROM THE SHAWNESE. July 14h 1781. Intelligence rec d by a Party of Shawnese headed by the principal warrior of Chillicothy, they set out the 26h Ult. to endeavour to discover the Enemy posted upon Keutucky, that ten days after their departure from hence they came upon a large road leading toward the Ohio in following which found that a large body of the Enemy had passed before them marching in several columns & as they persued



Page 647


ALEXANDER M'KEE TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

647

saw several encampments till they arrived at a large Breast Work which had been lately built, and found this to be the place, the Enemy had made their Canoes and also that three parties of them had joined at this place by different roads and were but just gone from hence down the Kentucky towards the Ohio-They compute the number joined together here to about 1,200 and counted on their way 30 places where large canoes had been put into the water, but as they did not take time to scout, say there must have been many more they did not see, here they concluded it would not be prudent for them to follow the route of the Enemy longer as they must reach the Ohio before them, and being fully convinced that they were now upon their way against their villages tookl the speediest way of coming to apprise us of it & came here in six days, they crossed the Ohio near the big Bonelick where they heard a great deal of firing below them which they say must be the Enemy coming up. It is also their opinion that Clark has not yet joined from Fort Pitt, nor those who are come to cross the country to them with Forces and that this is their main Body from Kentucky with Provisions &c who expect to meet at the mouth of Rockey River or Licking Creek. The above account is confirmed by a Party of Ottawas who were going down the Ohio a few days ago & discovered the Enemy at an Island below the Big Bone Lick and with difficulty escaped from them. They earnestly request the above Intelligence to be forwarded to their Father at Detroit with all possible Dispatch in confirmation of which they delivered a piece of Tobacco A Piece of Tobacco EndorsedIntelligence from the Shawnese, sent to Detroit July 14h 1781. [B 182, p 387] ALEXANDER MC KEE TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. DEAR SIR I received the inclosed Intelligence late last night and as the Indians seem so desirous to have it forwarded immediately to you, I dispatched the Bearer Robert Surphlet and as other Party's are gone to meet the Enemy shall take opportunities of sending you every account we receive of their approach. My letter from Sandusky mentioned that I was bringing the Indians from that place forward, the first part of them arrived yesterday and Captain Chabert with the Volunteers the day before as soon as they all come up we shall move to the Lower towns. I expect they will all be up to morrow. Uppon my first



Page 648


648

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

arrival at this place & before going to Sandusky I assembled the Chiefs of those Villages & engaged them to keep their people together till my return with what Indians could be collected there, and then the whole to move down to the Ohio to receive the Enemy there. but "I find they have suffered almost all their young men to go a hunting so that I have them now again to collect. It is indeed true they are scarce of Provisions and obliged to Hunt for their Families, but at this critical Juncture it is as necessary to watch the Enemy, as it is certainly drawing near the season, for them to make their push into the Indian Country. And the Corn in a short time will be fit for use. This will be of advantage to us, as we shall be scarce till that time unless we receive a supply from you, I endeavoured to get all that was left at Sandusky to this place which will be done in a short time, besides that Captain Thompson writes me he is also in want so that we shall have it to divide with him. The Indians are all in great hopes that Captain Chane and the Chiefs who went with him to collect their young men will be able to Join us again in time before the Enemy arrives in their neighbourhood. Whilst I was absent from this place, a Shawanese Indian arrived at the lower village who is supposed to be a spy from the Rebels, he was accompanied from Post Vincent by two Frenchmen suspected to be upon the same errand. One of them I am informed is gone to Detroit & carries Letters with him, but perhaps you will be apprized of him before this reaches you. Some Papers were foutnd about the Shawnese Indian which have been communicated to Captain Thompson. I am not as yet informed of their purport. I am with great Respect Dear Sir Your most obedient Humble Servant Major Depeyster A. McKEE Upper Shawanese Village July 15h 1781 Indorsed: Copy Mr. McKee's Letter to Major Depeyster Dated 15h July 1781. With InteUigence. [B 182, p 390] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEq 16h July 1781. SIR, I am honored with your Letter of the 12h Instant covering a par

Page 649


CAPT. GRANT TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

619

ticular account of the Indian Presents purchased and forwarded by you to Niagara and Detroit for the amount of which I am directed to transmit to you the enclosed warrant. A warrant for such sum as shall be necessary on account of your own Department will be granted when you come to Quebec I am Sir &c [signed] R. MATHEWS Lieut Col. Campbell Montreal [B 113, p 139] CAPT. ALEXANDER GRANT TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. SI QUEBEC July 1781. SIR Having requested the favour of Captains Shank & Twiss with Mr. Dunn, to hear what I had to say in support of my General Accounts settled by them last year, whereon a Ballance of ~39-3-15 was adjudged to be withheld from me untill I should account for the amount of freights between the 10h August 1776 (from which Period the vessels upon the Lakes were taken up by the Government) untill the 20h July 1777, when the order was received at Detroit. Without troubling Your Excellency by entering into a detail of the same, I humbly beg leave to refer Your Excellency to those Gentlemen' for the particulars, of this affair and from your Excellency's known humanity & Justice I presume to hope that your Excellency will not withdraw the only benefit I could have derived from General Gages inclination to indulge and repair my loss (expressed in a Letter which will be laid before you) never contradicted untill the 20h July 1777, and that a faithful and approved service of 26 years as an officer will be thought deserving of Your Excellencys Protection. I have the Honor to be Your Excellency's Humble Servant His Excellency General Haldimand ALEX GRANT Endorsed From A 1781 Capt. Grant of Detroit July the 18h [B 142, p 78] BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA July 19h 1781 SIR Having acquainted Lieut Governor Sinclair that I had transmitted S82



Page 650


650

IIALDIMAND PAPERS.

Captain Mompesson's letter to your Excellency relative to the disputes subsisting at Michilimakinac Island. I now send for your information his answer to my letter, as also the copy of a Letter I received from Major De Peyster. Colonel Johnson and Colonel Butler having represented to me that about one hundred Indians and fifty Rangers, might be employed to great advantage in distressing the Rebels at Curry's Bush, near Schenectady, I permitted them to go under the command of Captain Caldwell of the Rangers, a very active Partizan. They went off a few days ago, and are expected to return in about six weeks;as I thought it was possible, from the accounts we had received of Col. Allen's proceedings, that your Excellency might send some Troops over Lake Champlain I Capt Caldwell Instructions that in case he received certain accounts that Troops from Canada were at Fort Edward, or upon that communication, he was to send to the officer commanding them, and to offer his service to co-operate with him in any manner The King's Service might require; and I have no doubt but he will be of signal use if called upon. Lt. Hare has also gone out with twenty five Rangers, and at the request of, Captain Sharrop who commanded a party of Indians; he has been so very useful and active that it was impossible to refuse him, Indeed the Indians in General are so anxious to go to war; that it is difficult to restrain them. But I shall not allow any more Rangers to accompany them till I know if Your Excellency has any intentions to employ them, I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Your Excellencys most obedient His Excellency & most humble Servant General Haldimand H. WATSON POWELL Endorsed From A 1781. B. General Powell 19h July Reed. 1st Angt. [B 101, p 111] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEREC July 22nd 1781 SIR The Extracts of letters from Lieut Governor Sinclair and Major De Peyster with a sketch of a new fort upon the Island are received, the



Page 651


JOSEPH' REED TO COL. LOCHRAY.

651

Lieut Governor 'seems to be industriously carrying on that work but at a loss for materials please direct that he be punctually supplied with whatever Detroit can afford, and he shall require. He should be more particular in his demands than appears to have been in the extract. I am Sir &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND To Brig. Genl. Powell at Niagara 22nd July. [B 104, p 237] JOSEPH REED TO COL. ARCHIBALD LOCHRAY IN COUNCIL PHILADELPHIA July 23rd SIR 1781 I duly received your favor of the 4th of July and laid before the Council. The difficulty of getting any accounts of the large sums of money sent to the Frontiers has been for some time a subject of reflection upon all those who have received them. And it would have given us pleasure if we could have said that there were any exceptions. with respect to those sub Lieutenants who have not settled we can only say that the Militia Law has vested you with sufficient Power to compel an account, & that we must insist upon your putting the Law in force. As it is become not only a Duty, but a matter of indispensable necessity, that the account should be rendered. We know nothing of Colonel James Perry's settlement, as we presume he is a sub Lieutenant, we think he ought to have settled with the Public. We must also observe to you that Colonel Broadhead's Letters, thoe' they may be proper to shew, that the Expresses were not needlessly sent, are not the proper Vouchers, for that part of your account-the receipts from the person employed are in this case the proper vouchers which doubtless you have. ' We have carefully perused the letters & papers which accompanied your letter, and it is with much pleasure I am to express the satisfaction of the Council, in the proceedings of the good people of the Country with respect to General Clarke's Expedition. It had been suggested by Colonel Broadhead that General Clarke's enterprize was not calculated for the relief of the Frontiers but designed for another greater. We are glad to find that from such good authority that it is



Page 652


652

652 HALDIMAND PAPERS.

otherwise,' and make no doubt af ter what has passed that he will receive such further aid and support as may be necessary for the completion of his purpose. We are persuaded it- will give the only effectual relief from the Distresses which have so long and so severely afflicted the Frontiers. We are extremely concerned to see the dissensions and disputes which prevail in the Country, and which must weaken its credit and force. The Monies and Ammunition sent, and unaccounted for, we are persuaded have contributed much to it. The Distribution of the Force of the Frontiers, the neglect of Duty of the Officers commanding that Force-at the same time overlooked, or indulgently treated by those who should have exerted themselves, and the opportunities supposed to be taken to serve themselves and Friends, have all made impressions and very probably in some degree created those uneasinesses. The Petition of sundry Inhabitants of Westmoreland in your favour, has been read in Council and filed. It will have its due wreight, but -we must at the same time observe that these Testimonials are so easily obtained that they do not operate so much to the advantage of an officer, as a punctual adherence to his duty, impartiality in his office, and a frequent and fair settlement of his accounts, which make all such certificates unnecessary-not being informed with respect to the Balance of your accounts which are yet before the Auditors, we can say nothing of the Postcript of your Letter, which desires the Balance ascertained will be duly paid. As we do not observe any thing by this Express which is so special that it might not have come by a private hand, we hope it will not be a public charge. We must repeat our Injunctions in all cases to be as frugal and careful as possible, in all matters of Public Expense. I am Sir Your obedient and very humble Servant [signed] JOSEPH REED To Prsident Colonel Archibald Lochray Lieutenant of Lancaster County. indlorsed: Copy of a Letter from Joseph Reed, President at Philadelphia to Colonel Loobray, Lieutenant of Lancaster County. dated July 23rd 1781. [B 182, p 404]



Page 653


CAPT. MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. MACLEAN.

653

LOUIS GENEVAY TO WM. BARR. DEAR SIR QUEBEC 26h July 1781. I have had the honor to receive and lay before His Excellency General Haldimand your Letter of the 24h Inst. relative to one Clarius Britall a Rebel Prisoner who wish to take the Oath of Allegiance to His Majesty & to be employed in the King's Works. I am directed to signify to you the General's pleasure, that not doubting his conduct hereafter will be that of an honest man, he has no objection to your administering him the oath, and as Captain Grant, who will pass your way in two or three days hence on his return to Detroit, where he may be employed in the Public Works with less risk of making his escape, you will then please to release him and deliver him over to Captain Grant who will have his directions to take him under his care. I am Sir &c S[signed] L. GENEVAY Copy 81 To Wm Barr Esq at Three Rivers 26 July [B 197, p 140J CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. ALLAN MACLEAN. QUEBEC 26h July 1781. SIR In obedience to His Excy. the Commander in Chief's direction, I have the honor to signify to you his pleasure that Michael Foston a Prisoner from Detroit, is to be released from confinement, and ordered to present himself without loss of time at Quebec before His Excellency. I am further commanded to acquaint you that His Excellency finding orders conveyed lately through the Adjutant General of Militia, respecting the Interdiction of Captain Dussault of that Department have not been executed, and that the cause is attributed to your Interposition His Excellency is pleased to direct that, as the Militia is, except in the Field, entirely a Civil Branch, you will not in future give any directions which can affect the interior Economy of that department, unless you shall be authorized by him. Confining your orders entirely to those parts of that service which are immediately connected with that of the Kings in the active Line only, as nothing can result from the contrary but confusion and Discontent. I have the Honor to be Brig. Genl. Maclean. [signed] R. MATHEWS [B 131, p 120]



Page 654


654

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. SIR, I am honored with Your Excellencys letters of the 22nd Ult; and have ordered two carpenters to be sent from Detroit to Lt. Governor Sinclair, as there is not one here worthy of the name. Colonel Johnson has sent to recall Joseph Brant, whose stay at Detroit was very short. He informed me when he went away that he wished to meet the enemy before he returned, which he may possibly do as it is reported Colonel Clarke is marching with 1,200 men against the Indian Villages; the Particulars you will receive from Colonel Johnson. with great respect Sir Your Excellency's most obedient & His Excellency most humble Servant General Haldimand H. WATSON POWELL Endorsed:-From A 1781. B. Gl. Powell 16h Augt Recd 28h [B 101, p 133] @ MEMORIAL OF THE MERCHANTS OF DETROIT. His Excellency General Haldimand Commander in Chief of His Majesty's Forces in Canada. May it please Your Excellency: We the undermentioned subscribers] (Merchants) trading from and to the Post of Detroit most humbly beg i leave to inform your Excellency, that in the year 1779, when Captain Schank was in Detroit, we were told that it was your Excellency's orders; that no vessels save those belonging to the King should navigate on the Lakes, on this the merchants possessed of vessels readily disposed of them for the use of Government but it is with great regret! we still see two vessels navigating on Lake Huron the property of Monsr Barthe, one of which is called the Makina, may be about 16 or 17 Tons Burthen, the other called the Depeyster abt. 8 or 9 Tons. j By which unfair means he the said Monsieur Barthe has the advantage of all other Merchants trading at the posts of Makina and Detroit by forwarding his goods to the earliest markets and demanding an exhorbitant price for the freight of Merchandise belonging to others. As this preference is detrimental to all the other Traders and against



Page 655


JOSEPH BRANT TO CAPT. M'KEE.

655

your Excellency's orders made known in the year 1779, we are therefore convinced that your Excellency has not been informed of this great Privilege granted to an Individual. As it is with satisfaction that we see that Your Excellency has hitherto governed us by wise & just laws equally permanent and advantageous to all. We would most humbly supplicate that your Excellency will be pleased to put a stop to those vessels navigating or allow us all the same great Privilege. We for and in the name of other Merchants & ourselves residing at Detroit Have the Honor to subscribe ourselves your Excellency's most obedient and most humble servants ' NORMi McLEOD ALEXr SAUNDERS JOHN MARTIN QUEBEC 21st Augt. 1781. Endorsed 12: Memorial of Merchants at Detroit, Given at Quebec the 21st July 1781. Copy sent to Brig. Genl. Powell the 8th Sept. 1781. [B 217, p 239] JOSEPH BRANT TO CAPT. ALEXANDER MCKEE About ten mile below the mouth of the Big Miamie River-August 21st 1781. SIR Three nights ago we lay'd at the mouth of the Miamies River we heard number boats past but we could not tell how many of them for it was dark, when they go past the mouth fired cannon, we was going to attack them but we could not we suppose to be Clarke's Army. I been at the Bone Lick yesterday to see whether he was there but I could not see no sign of it. This morning we saw a Boat coming down the River and got ready ourselves & took the Boat with seven men one Major amongst them Militia Cracrath who was following Clarke as he is gone down sure enough & has about three hundred and fifty men with him, they deserting from him very fast, the Prisoners does not know how far Clark is gone down the River they suppose to be at the falls, likewise the Prisoners says there is hundred and about fifty men coming down the River with ten small Boats, one large one & one still larger horse boat number of them in it. which is expected te be here next day after to, morrow the longest, they was at the three Islands five nights ago, we



Page 656


656

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

are about ninety strong at present with different Tribes. These Indians and Chiefs particular Desires you and the Indians that is with you to come on as fast as possible you can to join this party, whilst the enemy are scadred we can easy manage them, & further Desires Express should be sent to Different Villages for every man of them should come immediately to this place for there is no signs any other party can go against the Indians except Clark, as the Prisoners says there is no other can be sent, no more at present please to excuse my writing I wrote in hurry. I am Your sincere friend & Huble. Sert. Jos. BRANT Please let all the Indians no if they dont come to assist us we Determined to attack the Enemy as well as we can. Addressed To Capt. McKee or Capt. Thompson at Chilikatheky [B 182, p 424] RETURN OF RUM REMAINING IN HIS MAJESTY'S MAGAZINE AT DETROIT AUGT. 24H 1781. Gallons.

Rum remaining

13,387.

N. B. On the nearest calculation it is supposed that 10,000 Gallons of Rum will supply this Post to 24h August 1782 from the above date. AT. S. DE PEYSTER Major. Endorsed: Return of Rum remaining in His Majesty's Magazine at Detroit August 24h 1781. [B 194, p 140] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LIEUT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC 25h August 1781. SIR I have the Honor to signify to you His Excellency the Commander in Chief's desire that you will come immediately to Quebec and bring



Page 657


DEMAND OF SUPPLIES FOR DETROIT.

657

with you Mr. Goddard in order to receive the Indian Presents, which are arrived from England. I have the Honor to be &c. &c. &c. [signed] R. MATHEWS You will herewith receive a Letter from Governor Sinclair to be forwarded by the Canoes to Michilimackinac you will please to signify to the men of the Canoes that they are expected to stay as long as the service will permit in order to forward the works. Lt. Col. Campbell R. M. [B 113, p 151] DEMAND OF SUPPLIES FOR THE GARRISON OF DETROIT. Return of Ordnance stores Demanded by Lieut Alex Duvernet of the Garrison of Detroit 17h March 1781. Vizt Quality Quantity Fuzes fixd 4 2-5 Inch 100 Shells Empty 4 2-5, do 100 Musquet Balls English Ton 1 Flints Musqt. 5000 Match Slow lbs 50 Corn'd Powder W. B. C. H. 50 La s Muscovey 3 Lanthorns T Tin 3 Portfires Dozens 6 Round Shott - loose 18 Pds. 150 9 300 A. Du VERNET Lt. R1. Artillery N. B. Lieut Duvernet reports in his letter dated the 30h July 1781 that there were no more than Three Barrels of King's powder in Store at Detroit at that Period. There were at Niagara on the 1st day of July 1781 137 Barrels of King's powder in Store. FORBES MACBEAN Sorell Augt 28, 1781 Endorsed: Demand of Supplies for the Garrison of Detroit 15h March 1781. Copy. [B 156, p 260] 83



Page 658


658

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

THOMPSON AND MC KEE TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER. CAMP NEAR THE OHIO SIR Augt. 29h 1781. On the 26h you haid enclosed an account that Capt. Brant and George Girty with the Indians advanced upon the Ohio, had taken one of Clarke's Boats, after his having past down the river in the night, not thinking themselves in numbers sufficient to attack him & having found by his orders to Major Craigcraft that more Troops were to follow under the command of a Colonel Lockry, lay in wait for them, attacked and took the whole, not allowing one to escape. Agreeable to a return it appears that there has been thirty seven killed amongst whom is Lockry their Commandant, with some other officers. This stroke with desertions will reduce Clarke's Army very much, and if the Indians had followed advice and been here in time it is more than probable he would have been now in our possession with his cannon. The prisoners seem to be ignorant of what his intentions are, perhaps loss may oblige him to change his measures. However, we shall endeavour to keep the Indians together & watch his motions. His first intention was to penetrate to Sanduskey through the Indian Country from whence the Troops from Fort Pitt were to return home and he to Kentucky, the enclosed papers will furnish you with further particulars. We are with great respect your most obedient & humble Servants [signed] ANDREW THOMPSON ALEX. MCKEE N. B. The Indians have not determined what to do with the Prisoners, but seem inclined to adopt a good many. Major Depeyster Endorsed: Duplicate of intercepted Letters &c. taken by Joseph Brant when he defeated Colonel Lockroy upon the Ohio. No. 1. [B 185-1, p 157] INVOICE OF GOODS FOR PRESENTS TO INDIANS. Invoice of goods for Presents sent to Lieut Governor Sinclair Commanding at Michilimacinac MONTREAL 31st August 1781. 254 pr 3 Point Blankets 581 Do 24 Ditto 50 Do 2 Ditto



Page 659


INVOICE OF GOODS FOR PRESENTS TO INDIANS. 50 Do 1l Point Blankets. 56 Do 1 Ditto 71 Pieces Blue Strouds 5 ditto Scarlet cloth 94 ditto Molton 102 doz. Calico Shirts 50 ditto Linen ditto 40 Scarlet Laced" Capots 92 Blue Laced ditto 9 ditto plain ditto 40 Laced Hats 23 Large Feathers 25 lb. Vermillion 120 do. fine Blue Paint 120 do do Rose do. 120 do do Yellow do. 14 pieces Calico 7 yds. each 6 ditto Platottes 29J Elles each 80 ditto Silk Ferretting sorted 224 Callimanco Mantellettes 15 Large Flags & Colours 346 Pieces gartering 12 doz. Looking glasses 210 doz Knives sorted 20 Brass Tomahawks 36 Silver Meddalls 56 Silver Plain Arm Bands 36 do large do with the King's Arms 2 Fine Silver Stars 4 do Gold ditto 46 Hudson's Bay Spears 80 pr Canadian do. 3000 Needles 56 lbs Sewing Thread 12 gross Gun Worms 11 do Indian Awls 4 do Fire Steels 24 doz Razors 12 do Women's Scissors 24 Large Axes 128 Half do.

659



Page 660


660

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

200 160 300 1350 600 300 300 1400 540 2790 80 150 28 12 8

Smaller do Fusils Flints lb Bullets lb Beaver Shot do Pidgeon do. do Buck do. do Gun Powder Do Carrott Tobacco do Brazil do. Kegs of Rum each contg 8 gallons ' Brass Kettles Sorted

Copper do do fire Locks new Canoes furnished 400 lbs Gum 100 Bundles Watup 30 fathom Bark 32 Setting Poles 8 Large Sails 8 ditto Axes 8 ditto Awls 3 Large Copper Ke 8 Sponges 24 Oil Cloths 32 Codd Lines

with the following articles:

Equipment for Engag6es: 167 yds Scots Sheeting for Trowsers 167 do I yd wide Cotton for Shirts 67 pr 3 point Blankets 32 Butcher Knives Provision for the Engag6es: 9 Kegs Rum each 8 gallons 128 Baggs contg 5700 lbs Biscuit 2000 lbs Pork 24 Bushels pease 800 lbs Flour JOHN CAMPBELL Supt. Ind. Affairs



Page 661


CAPT. MATHEWS TO MR. GODDARD.

661

Invoice of goods for presents to Indians sent to Lieut Governor Sinclair commanding at Michillimackinac 31 August 1781. [B 109, p 156] FRAN8 LE MAISTRE TO LT. COL. FORBES MACBEAN. Lt Col~ Mabean QUEBEC 4th June SIR 1781 In accusing the receipt of your letter of the 31st May I am at the same time to signify to you, his Excellencys pleasure, that you will direct a Serjeant or Corp' and one Private man from the 84' Regiment, to be -forthwith ordered to Montreal where they will receive Engineers Stores from Captain Lawes And with them proceed to Michilimackinac, and to remain there as part of the Garrison Inclosed I send a passport, Which you will deliver to the commanding Officer of the Regiment to have the Non Commissioned Officer's name inserted I have the honor to be &c [signed] FRANs LE MAISTRE "D: A: General [B 81, p 169] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO MR. GODDARD. QUEBEC 17th Sept 1781 SIR, Colonel Johnson having represented to His Excellency the Commander in Chief the necessity of supplying the sick, some particular chiefs and women of the Six Nation Indians occasionally with wine, Tea Sugar and Soup (articles not included in the Estimates sent Home) I am to signify to you His Excellency's command that you will purchase two quarter casks of Spanish wine, a chest or half a chest of common Tea, with a proportion of brown sugar and a few boxes of soup which articles are to be forwarded with the first cargo of Indian Presents for Niagara. The wine must be either cased, or such directions given to the, officer to whose care the presents will be committed as will effectually prevent their suffering upon the passage. The Tea & Sugar should likewise be put in light casks. Inclosed is a requisition from Major De Peyster wanted to compleat the presents in store, which must be issued about Xmass many of the articles are included in the supply from Home but as it is rather uncertain that they will be forwarded before the Spring, His Excellency

40



Page 662


662

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

desires in that case, the inclosed may be supplied from the Indian Store at Montreal, and forwarded accordingly. You will please to signify His Excellency's Commands on this Head to Lieut. Col. Campbell. I am &c. [signed] R. MATHEWS. To Mr. Goddard 1781 of the 17th Sept. [B 113, p 152] BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA Sept. 18h 1781. SIR I have the honor to transmit some intelligence, which I lately received from Major De Peyster. There were likewise some news papers, but they contain nothing except what your Excellency has before been informed of. Capt. Brant had received directions to return to this Post, tho' it was probable he will now remain above to see the issue of Mr. Clarke's intended enterprize. I also send some intelligence, which I have this instant received from Colonel Johnson, and have the Honor to be with great respect, Sir Your Excellencys most obedient and His Excellency most humble Servant General Haldimand H. WATSON POWELL The 10h Company of the Corps of Rangers is compleat, and was mustered this day. It appears to be a good one. The Rangers of Captain Caldwell's party who were returned missing have all been heard of and are expected to Join again soon, except one who has deserted. H. W. P. Endorsed: From A 1781. Brig. Genl. Powell of the 18h Septr. Reed 29h with Intelligence &c. [B 101, p 144] JOSEPH HOWARD TO GEN. FREbERICK HALDIMAND His Excellency General Haldimand &c. &c. &c. Sir 24h September 1781. I have enclosed Lt. Gov. Sinclair's order on your Excellency for fourteen hundred and forty three pounds, sixteen shillings New York



Page 663


CAPT. MATHEWS TO JOSEPH HOWARD.

663

Currency, which your Excellency will be pleased to order payment, in what manner may be most agreeable to Government. I have the honor to be with respect Your Excellency's most obt & very hble Servant JOSEPH HOWARD Endorsed: From Mr. Joseph Howard of Montreal, enclosing a Bill of Exchange from Lt. Gov. Sinclair of 24 Sep. Rec. 26h 1781. [B 184-2, p 677] OAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO JOSEPH HOWARD. QUEBEC 27th Sepr. 1781. SIR I am directed by His Excellency the Commander in Chief to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, covering a Bill for ~1443 16s. Od. New York Currency drawn in your favor by Lieut Gov. St. Clair which is herein returned accepted by His Excellency I am &c Mr. Joseph Howard [signed] R. MATHEWS Endorsed Copy 1781. S To Mr. Joseph Howard at Montreal 27 Sepr. [B 184-2, p 678] OAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LT. COL. JOHN CAMPBELL. QUEBEC 8h Oct 1781. SIR I have the Honor of Your Letter dated the 4h Instant and having laid it before His Excellency the Commander in Chief, I am directed to signify to you his approbation of your intentions in respect to the survey upon the damaged goods, and the Powder of the Cargo by the Jupiter His Excellency likewise approves the Large Packages being properly reduced for Transportation by the Posts, and desires that no Time may be Lost in forwarding that Business before the navigation ceases. Inclosed is a Letter and Estimate from Major De Peyster setting forth the necessity of a supply to carry him thro' the winter-His Excellency desires to employ the short remaining part of the Transport season in forwarding Provisions wishes to send no more of the Indian goods than may be absolutely necessary at the same time having in the most positive terms forbid the Purchase of any at the Posts, would have a quantity sent sufficient to provide for the wants of the Indians,



Page 664


664

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

and recommends to your care the ordering such to be forwarded with all possible dispatch. Mr. Goddard has been furnished with copies of the Invoices & Particulars of each Bill of Parcels. Herewith is inclosed a Receipt of the master of the St. Pierre for the Box of Indian Presents left in this office. I am &c. [signed] R. MATHEWS. Copy 1781. To Lt. Col. Campbell of 8h October. [B 113, p 154] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEO October 8h 1781. SIR, I have the favour of your letters of the 18h & 20h Ultimo, transmitting to me Intelligence and a Dispatch from Major De Peyster, the contents of which is very pleasing to me. As matters have turned out it is fortunate Joseph remained in that quarter where the Indians want the force of Example. to stimulate them to their duty as well to themselves as to the King, it is hoped their Pride & Services will be roused by the present one, more than hitherto, open to persuasion of the great Facility with which they may prevent the Encroachments of the Rebels by acting with unanimity and vigour, and there is not a doubt that the success of the Enemies Incursions in that country has been entirely owing to disaffection or a desire to prolong the war on the part of the Indians for the Benefit of receiving Presents. Private reasons have made it necessary to delay the appearance of the Detachment at Crown Point untill the 12th or 14h Inst and from Capt Grant having been detained by contrary winds & other Impediments which will occur on such occasions, it is probably the Parties from Niagara will not arrive much sooner at their Destination. To Brig' Gen' Powell. [B 104, p 272] MAJOR ARENT 8. DE PEYSTER TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. DETROIT 10h Oct' 1781 SIR In compliance with your orders relative to the Little Sloops Makana and De Peyster navigating Lake Huron, I am to inform you that they are authorized by Lieut. Gov. Sinclair. When I commanded at Michilimackinac, those craft were upon Lake Superior, for the conveniency of Transporting the Goods from St.



Page 665


THOMAS FINCHLEY TO MAJOR DE PEYSTER.

665

Mary's to the great carrying place. Upon Lieut. Gov. Sinclair's getting the command, He I am informed, ordered them down the falls, and chartered them some time for Government, Since which they have always come here under his Pass, and have been loaded as appears by the annexed Return. I have the honor to be Sir Your humble and obedient Servant Brig. Genl. Powell [signed] AT. S. DE PEYSTER [B 101, p 178] THOMAS FINCHLEY TO MAJOR ARENT S. DE PEYSTER DETROIT 10th Octr 1781 SIR, As Mr. Bath has been pleased to make choice of me at this post to transact his business, I therefore, agreeable to your desire, give you an;account of the loading of his two small vessels each trip they made, 'The 1st The Sloop Mackina carried from this place Mr. Barthe and Families Baggage with their Provisions and a small assortment of Indian goods, and Liquors. 2nd She was principally loaded with Spirits and Rum, the Property of Mess" Macomb & Co. with a very few articles for other People.' The 3rd She has 300 Bushels of Corn on Board belonging to the North West Company, with 30 Barrels carried in Exchange for Mr. George McBeath. The 4th Mr. Saunders had agreed at Michilimackinac with Mr. Barthe to half load her. The remainder was Corn for the North West Company, and nothing else, except some very small trifles. 5th This and the last I took a particular account of-She this trip carried 94 Barrels, Bulk for the following persons: 14 Lt. Gov r Sinclair, 24 Mr. Ridley, 24 Mess" Saunders, Saunders & Co, 30 Messrs Meldrum & Park, and 2 for Mr. Barthe. The 6th She carried 74 and last Barrels Bulk for the following persons. 41 Lieut Govr. Sinclair 8 Messrs Meldrum & Park 14 Mr. Barthe 5 Mr. Meyers 2 Mr, Bostwick '84



Page 666


666

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

1 Capt. Aubrey 1 Mr. Lessey 1 Mess" McLeod & Macnamara & 1 for Mr. Shaw. The Schooner De Peyster made but one Trip, she was chartered by Mr. Barthe, to Mr. McNamara, Mr. McLeod's Partner-therefore I "know not what Mr. McGregor (who acted in Mr. McLeods absence) put on board. I am with due respect Your most obedient humble Servt. [signed] THOs FINCHLEY Major De Peyster Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from Major De Peyster, to Brig. Genl. Powell, dated at Detroit 10th Octr 1781 and also Copy of an account from Mr. Finchley Mercht to Major De Peyster, relative to the Sloops, Mackina and De Peyeter. [B 101, p 178] BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. NIAGARA Oct' 20h 1781. SIR I have received a Letter from Major De Peyster mentioning that he had given Captain Thompson leave to come down to this Place to settle the accounts of his Detachment with Lieut. Colonel Butler, and that he had unfortunately fallen overboard and was drowned. Lieut. Wilkinson of the Indian Department, who is very desirous of succeeding Capt Thompson, has requested me to lay his pretentions before Your Excellency which I do with the, greater pleasure, knowing him to be an active good officer, and that Colonel Butler is desirous of having him in his corps. I also transmit a letter which I have received from Colonel Johnson respecting his Forresters, and as I am confident they are very usefully employed upon a great many occasions, and might be more so under proper regulations, I take the liberty to recommend it to your consideration, and can assure you that this mark of Your Excellency's attention to Colonel Johnson, tho' not attended with any pecuniary advantage to himself or expense to Government, will be very gratefully received. Colonel Butler having represented to me that the Company of his corps, now at Detroit, having been promised to be relieved during the course of the summer, he was afraid they would be much dissatisfied if it did not take place. In consideration of which, and the constant hard duty they have been upon, I have permitted him to



Page 667


BRIG. GEN. POWELL TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

667

send up Capt. Caldwell with 25 men (which were all they had fit for that service) to relieve part or all of that Detachment, if they could be spared, and I shall take some other opportunity to compleat Capt. Caldwell's Company. I am informed Capt. Brant is arrived at Detroit, where he is detained by a wound which he received in his Leg, when in the Indian Country, from his own sword, a mortification was at first apprehended but he is now out of danger. Capt. Grant informs me it is his and Major De Peyster's opinion that the Sloops Angelica and Wyandot are sufficient for the supplying and attending the Post of Michilimackinac, that the Wyandot is there now, and that the Angelica goes in the Spring, and that she will carry one hundred Barrels more by the_ alteration he has ordered to be made on her. Serjeant Wood of the Rangers arrived here a few days ago from the neighborhood of Schenectady the 24h Ult and brings advice that he was informed by Mr. Clinch of that Place (a Royalist of Credit, who has frequently sent intelligence to this Post) that there was an action the beginning of last September, between the King's Forces and the Rebels, near the White Plains, in which the Rebels lost 1500 men, with all their cannon and Baggage, and that all the nine month's men, who had been ordered from the Susquehanna and different Places, were ordered to return to their homes, immediately after that defeat. Colonel Butler has applied to me for leave for Captain Dare, of his Corps, to pass the winter at Three Rivers, and as he has a wi e and Family there, and can be spared from hence I hope Your Excellency will have no objection. Should I not receive your answer before the last vessels sails from hence, I shall take the liberty to give him leave to go in her I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir Your Excellency's most obedient and His Excellency most humble Servant General Haldimand H. WATSON POWELL Endorsed:-From A 1781 Brig. Genl. Powellof 20h Oct r Rec d 3 t [B 101, p 186]



Page 668


668

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

\ BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL TO OAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. NIAGARA Octr. 20h 1781. SIR, Upon receiving your Letter of the 6th Septr., covering a petition from some Merchants of Detroit, I immediately wrote to Major De Peyster and Lieut. Governor Sinclair, and send, for His Excellencys Information, the Major's answer upon that subject, as so soon as I hear from the Lieut. Governor you shall be informed of it. I have this day received your Letter of the 3rd of Septr. by Monsr. St. Hubert; also one of the 13h Ult. covering Letters from Lt. Govr. Sinclair and Major De Peyster. I am Sir Your most obedt. Servant Capt. Mathews _ H. WATSON POWELL P. S. This Garrison is in great want of medicines I must therefore beg the favour of you to lay the inclosed list before His Excellency, who I make not will order the perveyer, of the General Hospital to send them forward immediately H. W. P. Endorsed:-From A 1781. Brig. General Powell to Captain Mathews of 20th Octr. with inclosures Received 31. [B 101, p 185] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO LIEUT. GOV. HENRY HAMILTON. QUEBEC 23rd Oct, 1781 SIR I received with great pleasure your letter of the 7th of last May, c'onfirming the accounts of your enlargement and exchange, which had been some time before reported, but your letter of last December never came to my Hands. In your letter a general account of the cash you had received and expended to the 24th of May, together with a particular account of Cash advanced to the Department of the Kings Regimn and a Return of Prisoners of War taken at St. Vincennes, Your Bills have been honored agreeably to your wishes. Captain La Mothe & Messor Rocheblave and Bellefinelle came in the Convoy from New York with the exchanged Troops of Convention. From them I was pleased to hear you had not be disappointed in your Intention of going to England as I hope it will be attended with advantage to you, & it will give me pleasure to see you here early



Page 669


CAPT. MATHEWS TO LT. GOV. HAMILTON.

669

next Spring you will be I hope the bearer of Lord George Germain's commands to me. Mr. McBeath has for the present, Engaged as Surgeon's Mate on board the "Warwick." We shall see on your arrival what can be done for him, I have had some Letters here a long time for you, but the uncertainty of this finding you in London has determined me to keep them here to wait your arrival. Haldimand I am &ce D. D. [signed] FRED HALDIMAND. Lieut Governor Hamilton P.' S. From your Local knowledge of the Upper Country Posts, and the Expenses attending them, which tho very high in your time, have since considerably augmented, I could wish for the Information of Lord George Germain you might have an opportunity of explaining to His Lordship the circumstances from whence the amazing charges to Government arise. I have from time to time communicated to His Lordship my ineffectual endeavors to control and reduce them, but it is impossible (by Letter) nor can I be myself expected to have so minute a knowledge of that matter, to convey a satisfactory Idea of them to His Lordship. F. H. [B 61, p 77] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO LIEUT. GOV. HENRY HAMILTON. From Captain Mathews to the Same Private As the Expences of the upper Posts have been from the beginning a subject of great uneasiness to the Commander in Chief, I am convinced your Entering fully into an explanation of them with Lord George Germain, & being able on your return to this Province, to Communicate His Lordship's wishes to His Excellency, will be very acceptable, and well received by Him. [signed] R. MATHEWS Endorsed: (Copy) To H. Hamilton Eaq Lieut Governor of Detroit of the 23rd of October by the Fleet 1781. [B 61, p 79] JOSEPH HOWARD TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. MONTREAL 29h Oct 1781. SIR I should esteem it a particular favor if you would be so good as to apply to His Excellency General Haldimand for a licence for me to



Page 670


670

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

go up to Michilimakinac next spring to trade & collect if possible some part of the large sums I have owing me in that part of the Country. my reason for applying at this time is I have now an opportunity to prepare the articles proper to take up with me in the spring and should this opportunity slip I might not have it in my power to compleat an assortment for that Country; his Excellency was pleased to grant me a licence to go up the Country dated the 9h of July last which was too late this year. I sh' be on my return about that time. my property has suffered greatly owing to my not being. personally at the head,of my affairs in the upper Country, and from what I can learn may be the cause of my ruin and shd his Excellency refuse putting me on a footing with the rest of my fellow citizens next spring it will not only compleat my ruin but hurt some very worthy merchts. in London - I am &c. JOSEPH HOWARD Endorsed:-From Mr. Joseph Howard of Montreal of 29h Oct reed 31st 1781. [B 184-2, p 679] CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO JOSEPH HOWARD. QUEBEC 1st Novr. 1781. SIR Having laid before His Excellency the Commander in Chief of the 29h Ultimo, representing the injury your private affairs must sustain should you not be permitted to go to Michilimakinac in the SpringI am directed by His Excellency to signify to you that in consideration thereof he will grant you a pass together with the others for that country in the ensuing Spring, and you may prepare accordingly. I am Sir &c Mr. Howard [signed] R. MATHEWS Endorsed Copy 81 To Mr. Howard at Montreal 1st Nov. 184-2, p 680] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC 1st November 1781 SIR, I have received your letter of the 11th Ultimo, covering Mr. McKee's and Captain Thomson's Letters to Major De Peyster, by which it appears that all thoughts of pursuing the success obtained by Capt. Brant in the last skirmish against Mr. Clarke's ' Army are laid aside



Page 671


LT. GOV. SINCLAIR TO BRIG. GEN. POWELL.

671

for the want of perseverence in the Indians, and Provisions and Cloathing in the company of Rangers-it is unfortunate so fine a company were not so situated as to obtain some share in the defeat of the Enemy which could not have failed to make it more signal. I am &c [signed] FRED HALDIMAND. Brig. Genl. Powell Endorsed: Copy 1781 To Brig. Genl. Powell of the let November [B 104, p 276] LT. GOV. PATRICK SINCLAIR TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. " SIR The Petition respecting an indulgence granted to Monsieur Barth, in permitting him to navigate the Lake Huron, with two small vessels, states that matter very unfairly to the Commander in Chief. The Petitioners have no vessel, therefore cannot complain of partiality. The Traders who had vessels sold them to Government and they seem not to forget that Mr. Barthe's case is very different from theirs, as they desire leave to build small craft, notwithstanding the former prohibition, and Mr. Barthe only desires the same indulgence they had or that which he receives now at the discretion of the officers who command at the Posts. The word Petition can have no right of controul over the exigency of Public Service, or over the Propriety of shewing at times even favour to Particular Persons. I am Sir with respect your most obedient humble Servant PATT SINCLAIR Lt. Governor. MICHILIMAK0 2 Nov. 1781 Endorsed: Copy of a Letter from Lt. Govr Sinclair to Brig. General Powell dated at Michilimacktinao 2nd Novr 1781. [B 101, p 192] GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND TO BRIG. GEN. SPETH. QUEBEC 5h Nov, 1781. SIR I am favoured with your letters of the fourth instant reporting the



Page 672


672

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

accident which happened to Coteau du Lac by fire, & the elopement of the Rebel Prisoners on parole at the Isle Parrault, I am glad to find by Letters to Capt Twiss, that the prisoners were not instrumental to the misfortune at Coteau du Lac, but on the contrary behaved very well upon the' occasion. Capt. Twiss will visit that post soon, in the mean time every preparation will be made by the Engineer to repair the misfortune. I approve entirely of the steps you have taken to retake the rebel Prisoners, and hope they will prove successful, you will please to direct that the remaining five be removed to Montreal to a close confinement. I am Sir &c Brig. Genl. Speth [signed] FRED HALDIMAND [B 131, p 130] BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. NIAGARA Novr 15th 1781 SIR, I send Lieutenant Governor Sinclair's answer respecting the Petition of some Detroit Merchants which you will please to lay before the Commander in Chief; I beg you will likewise acquaint His Excellency that I have received two Letters from Major De Peyster of the 2nd and 4th Inst. In the first he mentions that some news he had just received from the Indian country, of the Enemy being in motion, made it incumbent on him to keep a Detachment of Rangers equal to a compleat company. In the last he says " As in all probability I shall "be under the necessity of detaching a considerable number of men "from this Garrison early in the Spring, and finding the Prisoners "dayly encrease in this settlement, both by adoption and otherwise, I "think it prudent to send some of them down the Country; Major "Craigcroft and Captain Our should have been included were they not "too ill to proceed." The Prisoners are arrived here agreeable to the enclosed return, and will proceed this day for Canada. I am Sir Your most obedt. humble Servant H. WATSON POWELL. Capt. Mathews Endorsed. From A 1781 B. Genl. Powell 15th Novr Recd 2nd Decr. Enclosing a Letter from Lt. Govr. Sinclair concerning navigating vessels. S[B 101, p 198]



Page 673


REV. FATHER HUBERT TO GEN. HALDIMAND.

673

X CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS TO BRIG. GEN. H. WATSON POWELL. QUEBEC 16th Novr 1781. SIR, I have the Honor to acknowledge the receipt -of your Letter dated 20th October covering a Letter from Major de Peyster upon the subject of the Private Vessels which have, contrary to H. S. the commander in chief's orders, navigated upon Lake Huron. I have laid the letter before His Excellency. I have the honor to be [signed] R. M. B. G. Powell Endorsed: Copy 1781 To Brigadier General Powell Commanding at Niagara the 16th Novr by Lieut McLean [B 104, p 287] REV. FATHER HUBERT TO GEN. FREDERICK HALDIMAND. (Dec. 31, 1781?) Your Excellency having honored me with permission to write to him, it is to me a pleasurable duty. I inform him of my arrival at Detroit on the 8th of November last, I had been 22 days at Carleton Island occupied in giving spiritual help to the Canadian sailors, which they have long needed. This Journey it seems to me that Your Excellency's letters to the commandants of the different posts sent to them also the benevolent sentiment which your Excellency has honored me with. Pere Charlevoix has not exagerated in his history of Canada in saying of this country, that it has a very beautiful climate, fine rivers., prairies forests but above all good & very fertile land. Your Excellency theni has reason to be surprised that it does not support its inhabitants, I believe I have found the cause in the price of wheat being too low for the last eight years, it is only worth 5h, a habitant therefore finds it quicker & more to his taste to make the 5th with his gun & line than with his bushel of wheat thus the time is lost but if wheat would bring a Louis he would willingly leave the gun & line & take the plough. I believe it would be an evil for good if wheat was dear, insensibly men would cultivate the land & support their children & servants by that & little by little they would lose their taste for hunting & would be forced to become useful labourers instead of lazy hunters. i Time does not allow me to make any other remarks on this country.,85



Page 674


674

HALDIMAND PAPERS.

I close this letter by wishing long & happy life to your Excellency & assuring him of my profound respect with which I am My dear general Your Excellency's very humble obedt. Servant To His Excellency General Haldimand HUBERT PTRE [B 74, p 225] RICHARD CORNWALL TO CAPT. ROBERT MATHEWS. DEAR SIR, I am lately informed by Captain Schank that His Excellency the Commander in Chief has been pleased to order that my pay should be reduced from 10 I Sterling per day to 6 | per day, and 32 I per month. I have done the duty of Master Builder on Lake Erie &c for these fourteen years past and have contributed every thing in my power for the good and suppoit of His Majesty's Service. In the year 1776 when the vessels on the Lakes were taken entirely into the King's Service Sir Guy Carleton was pleased to send me his commission for Master Builder on Lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron and Michigan and. established my Pay at 10 j Sterling per day which I have continued to receive ever since without any deduction whatever. A copy of my commission I herewith send you and most humbly request that you will be pleased to lay it before His Excellency, who I hope will be "pleased to take it into his most serious consideration and who I am well convinced is too Bountiful to distress an old servant to the Crown, and one who is almost worn out in the King's Service, hoping he will be pleased to continue my pay as formerly untill he of his pleasure shall think proper to dismiss me from the service; Both me and my character is quite unknown to His Excellency But it is not so to you, who I hope will be pleased to represent it as you have from time to time found it, and for a further Information I appeal to Major Lernoult, under whose command I was for many years at Detroit. My situation is rather distressing, I am a native of New York, in which place resides my Family at present, many circumstances will not admit of my going home, the troubles arising from this unnatural Rebellion & my steady attachment to my King & Mother Country prevents it, and indeed I am rather too far advanced in years to be travelling from place to



Page 675


RICHARD CORNWALL TO CAPT. M~ATHEWS. 675 place. Any amendment or alteration you are pleased to make in this and laying it before the Commander in Chief will ever oblige Your most obedient and very faithful Humble r Servant RICHARD CORNWALL Capt. Mathews Endorsed; From A 1781 Mr. Cornwall Master Builder DETROIT [B 142, p 136]



Page 676
Blank page
Page 677




INDEX.





Page 678
Blank page
End of Table of Contents. Continue to next section or 
Index
Page 679


INDEX.

A. Page. Abbey, Abraham: Barrack master at Detroit....--............-- 320 Abbott, Lient. Gov.: Alluded to..---.--......----.--.----------- 562 Abercrombie, Gen.: Letter to, from Col. Henry Bouquet.----- 177 Alluded to -----------------------..............166, 170 Aflec. ---: Alluded to.--...........----.------ ---- --. 55 Ains, Mr.: Sent to the assistance of Lieut. Gov. Hamilton--.......----..... ------------------ 425 Amelote, Pierre: Alluded to-......--.-------. -------------- 491 American Colonies: Reports on-...------..------------------ 1 Amherst, Gen. Jeffery: Letter from: To Col. Henry Bouquet-....125, 127, 137,140, 148, 155, 157, 176, 178, 180, 185, 193, 196, 198. 203, 204, 206, 223, 231,233, 237 Lieut. Gov. Fanquier -------------- 228 Gov. Hamilton..........-----.------- 195 Secretary of War........------....--- 24 Col. Stephen.--...-----------.------ 229 Letter to: From Col. Henry Bouquet....122, 123, 131, 132, 134, 144, 167, 170, 176, 179, 180, 184, 191, 195, 200, 205, 208, 219, 221, 224, 226, 227, 280, 234, 238, 241, 271 George Croghan.....-----..------. 183 Gen. Thomas Gage------......------ 14 Sir William Johnson..--.--------. 211 Gives commission as major to Henry Gladwin--.... ---------------------- 23 Instructions to Gen. Gage..-----. -------- 2 Orders to Sampson Fleming.-----.------. 128 Informed of England's declaration of war against Spain.------ - ---------- 137 His reason for the prohibition of the sale of ram.........--- ------------------------ 148 Alluded to.....34, 36, 38, 41, 43, 44, 48, 62, 63, 67, 68, 72, 79, 90, 104, 111, 115, 120, 262. Asmee, Indian interpreter: Allnded to..--.---.-------- ------------ 299 Allec,Capt.: Alluded to..--...--.---------.------------- 3s

Allegiance: Page. Form of oath of..----..-------------------- 42 Andrews, Capt. James: Letter from, to Major Henry Bassett.-... 304 Letter to,%from Lieut. Col. Mason Bolton_. 346 Commander of the Gen. Gage............. 315 Commandant on Lake Ontario.----------. 361 Alluded to--...--....-- --.--.--.--------- - 626 Anthony, Dr. Geo. C.: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet....119, 172 Declines purchasing Mr. Carre's ensigncy- 171 To be surgeon at Detroit-..--..--..--..---- 429 Alluded to--.......----.... --------------.. 68, 314 Artel, Capt.: Joins Col. Bouquet with a party of Indians. 281 To proceed with his command to Sir William Johnson..----.------ ------------. 283 Alluded to------... ---.. -----------.-- ----- 61 Askin, John: Letter from, to Nathaniel Day---...-----.. 551 Askin, Commissary: Alluded to---....----.....--------------. ---- 299 Aubrey, Capt.: Arrival at Niagara with a detachment of the 47th regiment --........------. --..... 416 Ordered to Detroit---.....--..---. --.--.... 643 Alluded to.--..---.---..-349, 403, 404, 428, 478, 527 B. Baby, Mr.: Report on.... --......----.. ----.---..... 84 Alluded to -------..........------62, 65, 70, 89, 534 Bailes, Serjt.: Alluded to-.---.. --.------------------- 173 Baillie, Lieut.: Alluded to.--.......--...--. ----...-----.54, 69, 235 Balfour, Capt.: Falls back upon Sandusky...............--- 125 Alluded to--.........-- --------------.116, 120, 121 Balneavis, Capt. Lieut.: Alluded to...-....----- ---....... --.. ---.. 234 Balreaves, Patrick: Succeeds Capt. Lieut. Graham, killed-.... 225 Banbury, Lieut.: Under arrest.............-.......,.--. 416 Banton & Warton: Merchants in Philadelphia, alluded to.. 174 Bard, Col.: Alluded to---...........------.. -------86, 92



Page 680


680

INDEX.

Barnsley, Capt.: Page. Alluded to-..---.....63, 69, 74, 84, 104, 117, 121, 124, 146, 159, 23S, 266, 291 Barr, Mr.: Alluded to..--..--------.. ---------------.- 51 Barr, William: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand 618, 620 Letter to, from Louis Genevay-..-----. --- 653 Barthe, Mr.: Owner of two vessels on Lake Huron.---. 654 Alluded to --.... ------------------- 579, 665,671 Bassett, Mr.: Goes to Venango ___--------_ ------------- 52 Alluded to.-----------.. ----------------. 46 Bassett, Lieut.: Has leave to sell his commission---------- 93 Alluded to..---------------------.......- 56 Bassett, Capt.: His conduct highly commended by Col. Bouquet ----- -----.------------------ 226 In the battle of Edge Hill -..-..--.-..--- 222 Alluded to. ___....._-- -------------.. 74, 168, 235 Bassett, Major Henry: Letter from: To Gen. Thomas Gage-----..----..300, 301, 307 Gen. Frederick Haldimand-..-....296, 310, 313, 314, 315 Letter to: From James Andrews--....----- --.--.- 304 Thomas Robison..---...-------------.306 Baubin, Mr.: Alluded to.-----.---.-----.------------- 455 Baxter, Mr.: Alluded to ------------.---------------303, 312 Beaubin, Mons.: Alluded to -...---.------.---.---..-----.. 537 Bedford: Order to arm the inhabitants of..---------- 94 Bedford, Fort: Commanded by Capt. William Grant.--._- 283 Bedford, Lieut.: Alluded to ------ -- -.---------------.. 35 Belethe, Mr.: Alluded to.---...-- ---------------. ------. 44 Bellefinelle, Mr.: Alluded to--..-...-- --------------------- 668 Behettre, Mons.: Alluded to......--------- --------------- 71 Bennet, Lieut.: Alluded to..--.----.-- ------- -------- 343 Bennet, Lieut. Thomas: Letter from, to Capt. R. B. Lernoult-...-- 455 Bentley, Thomas: Letter from: To Major Arent S. De Peyster... 548, 560, 563 Gen. Frederick Haldimand--.472, 489, 560 Daniel Murray...........----------......... 324 Letter to: From Mrs. 8. Blizard..............--...- 38 John Bradley-..--_.--------------. 400 Major Arent S. DePeyster..----.. 455 Dan. Murray-..--. -.....---.-----.. 417 Isaac Walker.--..-----.-----.-- -.406 A prisoner...--..--...... -....------------- 324 Arrested by Major De Peystor...----..... 327

Bentley, Thomas. Page. Statement of----....... ---------........--- 328 Petition of...---....--.....-----. -----...-- 331 Memorial of --...--...-----.......--------347,369 His escape alluded to.-----....--....----.480, 482 Benthwick, Mr.: Alluded to-. ---- -..-..-----...--. 63, 68 Benzel, Lieut.: Alluded to--.........--. --..-----------..-- 295 Berr6e, Pere: Alluded to------........----...-----------.. 491 Bettie, Mr.: Alluded to....-..--.--..-----...-.....----- 492 Betty, Capt.: Alluded to..----------......------------- 491 Bird, Lieut. Henry: Letter from, to Lieut. Col. Mason Bolton. 413 Bird, Capt. Henry: Letter from, to Major Arent 8. De Peyster 524, 527, 533, 538, 545 Acting engineer at Detroit----..----------. 568 Alluded to--....519, 530, 543, 545, 546, 547, 558, 566 Blaine, Lieut.: At Ligonier......-- -----....------------.. 122 Alluded to--..--.-----....--....--.----... 64, 73, 85 Blaine, Alexander: Letter from, to Matthew Elliot--........ 317, 318 Blake, Mr.: To take charge of hospital at Montreal... 620 Bliss, Mr.: Alluded to-.--....------... -----------. 568 Blizard, Mrs. S.: Letter from, to Thomas Bentley--...--.--. 388 Bolton, Lieut, Col. Mason: Letter from: To Adjutant General._--..--... ----. 834, 335 Capt. James Andrews--....---------- 346 Sir Guy Carleton..----.. --. -----.... 343 Gen. Frederick Haldimand..353, 359, 363, 365, 370, 373, 415, 471, 174, 479, 506, 521, 567, 572 Sir John Johnson.-----. ----.......- 471 Letter to; From Lieut. Henry Bird---..------.--. 413 Capt. Dederick Brehm --..-----.. 448 Major Arent S. De Peyster_448, 495,501, 519, 526, 531, 536, 540, 553, 555, 566, 574, 578 Alex Grant--...--....--- 480, 495, 502, 556 Gen. Frederick Haldimand.348, 362, 367, 395, 428, 429, 436, 451, 453, 458, 459, 472, 477, 506, 535, 543, 546, 557, 558, 565, 570, 577 Capt. R. B. Lernoult ---........-439, 407 Ensign Robert McCausland....... 520 Frank L. Maistre ----------....--462, 568 Lieut. Gov. Patrick Sinclair ----. 529 Requests that a Brig. Gen. take command of the upper posts and lakes--.....-..--- 573 Lost in the Ontario....--.........-- - -...-. 580 Death of, alluded to-----...---..---...--... 583 Alluded to-----..--...--------3.99, 404, 405, 414, 500 Bonk, James: Letter to, from - --.......... 400 Bouchette, Capt.: Alluded to ---........-...----.-----...400, 412



Page 681


*

INDEX.

681

Boulanger, Mr.: Page. Bouquet, Col. Henry. Alluded to---...----....-- ---------------.-. 635 Letter to: Boundary: From Ensign H. Between Canada and Louisiana..------. -. 19 Ensign Pi Bouquet Papers...-------..--... ---..-.... -- 27 CoL John Bouquet, Col. Henry: J. Schloss Letter from: Edw'd Sh To Gen. Abercrombie.....------. -------- 177 Major Wi Gen. Jeffery Amherst--....122, 129, 131, 1i2 Major J. V 134, 144, 167, 170, 176, 179, 180, 184, 191, 195, 200, 205, 208, 219, 221, 224, 226, 227. 230, 231, Sketch of...-..... 238, 241, 271 Extract from his Col. John Bradstreet..-- -.-----.. 274 Journal of.--... Capt. Donald Campbell _-.._- --82, 89, 146 An act for the na James Dow--..----..--------------- 143 Inspects the mag Capt. Ecuyer----...--..----------- 191 Bedford..--... Gen. Thomas Gage 246, 249, 261, 273, 279, 283 Acquaints Gen. A John Harris.------.----------------- 267 posts at Presqu Sir William Johnson. --.....- 259 nango -- _----- Gen. Robert Monckton....32, 33, 52, 54, Defeats the India 61, 64, 69, 73, 81, 91, 96, 10S, 114 Appointed to cor William Rutherford..------.-------- 263 partment ---- Gen. John Stanwix..------------- 37 Orders by.----. Col. Stephen -----------. ---------- 264 Alluded to-.--- Major Stewart ----------------- 46 Bostick, Henry: Major William Walters _--.-------- 35, 66 Witness to deed f Letter to: Boswel, -: From Gen. Jeffery Amherst-_125, 127, 137, 140, A prisoner ---__. 148, 155, 157, 176, 178, 180, 185, 193, 196, Boyle, Mr.: 198, 203, 204, 206, 223, 231, 233, 237 Killed--..-... Dr. George C. Anthony ---------.119, 172 Boyle, Hugh: Lieut. Dederick Brehm..-.- 247, 256, 265 Killed at Pa Rivi Capt. Donald Campbell_.. 44, 46, 49, 62, Boyle, Phillip: 70, 76, 78, 86, 94, 98, 101, 103, 116, 120 Alluded to--.-- 121,129, 138, 150, 152, 153, 160, 163, 169, Bradstreet, Col. Johl 171, 172, 173, 182 Letter to, from ( Ensign John Christie.----------. 209 Makes peace wi Ensigns Christie, Schlosser & Pauli Lake Erie and 248, 252 Makes peace wit] Capt. Gavin Cochrane--.-------.. 72, 102 Alluded to....... Thomas Cohoon..------- ------. 49 George Croghn-------- - 192 Brant, Capt. Joseph J. P. DeHaas.--------------------- 60 Letter from: James Dow -----.. ------------.142, 269 To Messrs. IE S. Eouyer..--------------------- 188 Capt. Alexm Capt. Geo. Etherington..---... _162, 177 Sets out with th Gen. Thomas Gage....243, 244, 257, 269, country...--. 272, 274, 276, 277, 278, 287, 289, 293, 294 Destroys every h Hutache Gamlin...-------.... ----- 80 cept three-.... Major Henry Gladwin.--.------158, 208 Arrival at Niaga Capt. William Grant ----- 255 dians..--. H. Hamback -------------------- 98 Sets out toward J. D. Hamback-------------------- 155 Captures a boat T. Hamback..------------------ 16S Alluded to...... T. D. Hamback ---------- ----50, 127Br, W. Hamback ---------- ---- --- LetteBrdloy, John: Lieut. Jehu Hay.-------------165, 251 Letter from, to Lieut. Edward Jenkins -. - -. --105, 118 Brady, Supt. of &d Lieut. William Leslyo-----------152, 166 A prisoner.--- Lieut. James MoDonald-.63, 110, 174. 212 Breae, Mr.: Lieut. George McDougall-.....248, 250, 252, 266, 267 Brehm, Capt. Deder Lieut. Elias Meyer-.......107, 110,117,121 Letter from: (-en. Robert Monckton... 36, 38, 39, 56, To Lieut. Col 60, 65.92,93,106 Col. Henry Lient. Ourry..------------------- 189 Gen Fred 86

Page. C. Pauli.----.-- ----.. 157 rice.-.-------.-.----.... 201 Reid..----..--------.. 275 er.------.. ------------. 159 ippen--..-.------.------- 28 lliam Walters -._30, 51, 100, 105 Vilkins..-------...... 166 -190 ---...-----. 27 journal.---. ------- 27....------------- - 30 turalization of -....----. 137 gazines at Ligonier and......------.------..... 148 mherst of the loss of the ie Isle, Le Baeuf and Ve-..........------------ 205 ns at Edge Hill.--...... 220, 221 nmand the Southern de-....--------..------......- 259..---.........---------. 2S2 S.....................58, 228, 229 or Mackinac Island--.... 634.--.............. -------- 600 S-----............... 303 ere des Sauteux..---..--. 305 ----................- - - 112 n: Col. Henry Bouquet-..-... 274 th the Indians between the Ohio............... 271 h the Indians at Detroit.. 277...258, 269, 270, 271, 272, 273, 275, 276, 277, 278, 279 sidore Chene & Elliot.-.. 634 ander McKee-...--------.. 655 irty Mohawks for-Indian.....------------..... 8342 louse at German Flats ex-..........-...--....-... 3861 ra with the Canadian In-.......-.............--- -- 413 Detroit......--.---...---. 17 with seven men.....--.... 655.....491,629, 636, 654, 658, 662, 667 Thomas Bentley.--.-----. 400 ian Affairs: -....------------ 592 ---------- -- 49 ick: I. Mason Bolton.---.-----. 448 r Bouquet.---........247, 256, 265 erick Haldimand....404, 410, 413



Page 682


682

IN- DEX.

Brehm, Capt. Dederick: Page. Letter to, from Gen. Frederick Haldimand -----------------:386, 398, 402, 4321, 451 To examine the state of the posts from Lachine to Detroit --------------------- 386 Instructions to, for his route between Lachine and Detroit--------------------389 Appointed Barrack Master General -----403 At Fort Erie on his way to Detroit -----416 Sailed from Fort Erie for Detroit --------- 471 Alluded to.----------------- 121, 165, 266, 4*36, 439 Brower, Capt.: Alluded to ------------------------------ 51,.58 Britall., Clarius: A rebel prisoner-------------------------- 653 British Dominions in America: Considerations for securing, improving and enlarging---------------------------S8 Broadhead, Col.: In command at Fort Pitt and Beaver Creek --------------------------------- 600 Alluded to ------------------------------- 651 Broadhead, (Gen.: Alluded to--------------------- ---------- 554 Brock, Serg't: Alluded to ----------------------159 Browning, Lieut. Col. Alluded to------------------------------ 237 Brace, Lieut. Col. James: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand----------------------------------437 Bryan, Capt.: Arrival at Fort Pitt----------------------- 96 Alluded to-------------------------------- 92 Bull, Lieut. Gov.: Alluded to ----------------------------- 271 Bullet, Capt.: Alluded to--------------------------------2-53 Banbury, Lieut.: Ordered to Detroit for court mnarshal ----462 Bard, Clol.: Arrival at Fort Pitt----------------------- 96 Alluded to ------------------------------- 114 Burgoyne, General: His defeat reported at Niagara --------33:5 Alluded to.---------------------------- 420, 582 Barnet, Capt.: Letter to, from Capt. Robert Matthews.. 535 Burton, Col.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 292 Butler, Mr.: Alluded to-------------------------------- 47 Butler, Lieut.: Sends his detachment to Sandusky ----- 117 Arrives in New York---------------------- 125 Alluded to ----------------------------- 61, 127 Butler, Capt.: Alluded to ---------------------------- 396, 414, Butler, Col.: Alluded to----------------- 522, 5414, 62-5, 650, 666 Butler, Mlajor John: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand 340, &38 Letter to: From Capt. William Caidwell ---------- 355

Butler, Major John. Letter to: Page. From Glea. Frederick Haldimand---- 3'93 Al-luded to.------------ 361, 372, a74, 396, 4.54, 470 Caire, Lieut.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 25S Caldwell, Lieut.: Alluded to -------------------------------.195 Caldwell, Capt. Win.: Letter from, to Major John Butler -------- 355 Alluded to ------------------------------- 667 Callender, Capt.: To furnish H. Hamback a cargo of Indian goods------------ ---------------------- 98 Alluded to ------------------- 80, 81, 99, 156, 291 Calve, Lieut.: Alluded to---------------------- 441, 447. 449, 530 Camaho, Capt.: Alluded to--------------------------------.52. Campbell, Mrs.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 52 2 Campbell, Lieut.: Killed at Niagara carrying place-----------23 7 Campbell, Capt.: Arrival in New York --------------------- 244 Campbell, Lieut. Col.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 291 Campbell, Major: To proceed to Philadelphia with two cornpanies ---------------------------------- 191 Sent to Fort Pitt with the 42d and 77th regiments --- ----------------- 197 In the battle of Edge Hill ----------------- 221 With 400 men goes to Ligonier ------------ 22 5 Returns to Fort Pitt f rom Ligonier ----- 22 6 Alluded to ------------------------ 203, '223, 227 Campbell, Lieut. Donald: Wounded at Edge Hill-------------------- 220 Campbell, Capt. Donald: Letter from: To ---------------------------------- 66 Col. Henry Bouauet-44, 46, 49, 62, 70, 76, 78, 86, 94, 98, 101, 103, 116, 120, 121, 129, 138, 150, 152, 153, 160, 161, 163, 169, 171, 172, 17:3, 183 Capt. Cochrane.---------------------. 78 Capt. Ellas Meyer.------------------ 113 Letter to, from Col. Henry Bouquet.- - -82, 89, 146 Marches with 100 men for Detroit, etc.- - - - 38 Instructions from Glen. Monckton --------- 43 Complains at the amount of rmn sold at Niagara -------------------------------- 74 Complains at the quantities of rum sold at Detroit ----------------- ---------------99o Reinforced at Detroit--------------------- 105 Memorandum for ------------------------ 112 Prisoner to the Indians.------------------- 202 Death of--------------------------------- 211 Taken prisoner--------------------------- 215 Murdered by the Indians at Detroit-----218 Butchered by the Indians ---------------- 223 Alluded to-.-40, 41, 42, 52, 56, 58. 63, 64, 65, 80, 111, 114, 117, 122, 126, 127, 134, 152, 157, 169



Page 683


INDEX.

683

Campbell, Lieut. Col. John: Page. Letter from: To Gen. Frederick Haldimand....359, 394, 481 Capt. Robert Mathews.523, 547, 552, 556,645 Letter to: From Major Arent S. De Peyster........ 411 Gen. Frederick Haldimand---377, 387, 401, 441, 447 Capt. Robert Mathews----....446, 449, 515, 516, 548, 552, 557, 596, 615, 648, 656, 663 Schedule of papers belonging to.---.------......... 376 In confinement at Chambly--.......-------------- 628 With five others taken prisoner.-.......... 498 Alluded to....................-----------------466, 490, 491, 563 Campion, Etienne: Witness to deed for Mackinac Island...... 634 Alluded to--..........---.--.-------.......-----------. 632 Canada: Boundary between, and Louisiana.--------- 19 Revenue of-------... --------------------22 Canadians: Not to be depended upon-----...----------..... 600 Carleton, Col.: Alluded to -. ----. ------...398, 402 Carleton, Sir Guy: Letter to: From Lieut. Col. Mason Bolton----..... 343 Gen. Frederick Haldimand-..-.... 347 Gen. Robertson--------..-------- 320 Memorandum for, concerning trade in Lake Superior country------.........----------... 337 Alluded to............-----------------334, 385, 470, 674 Carleton, Lieut. Col. Thomas: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand 411 Letter to, from Gen. Frederick Haldimand 400 Carre, Lieut.: Alludedto..............------------------------.69, 208 Chabert, Capt.: Alluded to-......--...---------------------- 647 Charles Town, S. C.: Reported in the possession of the British. 542 Chene, Capt. Isidore: Letter from, to Major Arent S. DePeyster. 635 Chene & Elliot: Letter to, from Capt. Joseph Brant....... 634 Chevallier, Louis: Letter from: To Major Arent S. DePeyster.----------.... 352 Gen. Frederick Haldimand....... - -- 375 Alluded to......--.......---- -------------301, 426, 437 Chiquette, Lieut.: Alluded to........----- ---------------------- 370 Christie, Lieut. J.: Letter from, to Lieut. Gordon..........--------- 188 Christie, Ensign John: Letter from, to Col. Honry Bouquet.. 209 His account of the battle at Presque Isle.. 209 Taken prisoner with his garrison at Presque Isle----.....---.......--------------------218 Delivered at Detroit by Indians...----------. 219 Alluded to-......--..---------------51, 60, 200, 223 Christie, Schlosser and Pauli Ensigns: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet... 248, 252 Clairy, John, an American deserter: Intelligence from---------- ----------- 554

Clapham, Capt.: Page. Discharged from the works --..-....----...-.. 82 Killed by his Paris slaves and the Indians. 161 Alluded to. --...---------------......55, 74. 151, 205 Clark, Daniel: Merchant in Philadelphia, alluded to.---- 183 Clarke, Col.: Letter from, to Thomas Jefferson....-..... 465 With 900 men to go to Vincennes.----..---. 442 Recruiting for an attack on Detroit-..--.-- 598 With three thousand men to enter the Indian country..----.-------...... 601 Reported marching against the Indian villages with 1,200 men.......--------...----------. 654 Alluded to............---------.474, 524, 528, 541, 542, 545, 546, 549, 554, 592, 626 Claus. Col. Daniel: Letter to: From Gen. Frederick Haldimand.....--- 627 Capt. John.----.---------.......... ------617 Daniel Servos.---.---.............---------.. 617 Taylor & Dulffin. -.-----.------- 360 Alluded to------------..-----------491.627 Clinch, Mr.: Alluded to.---- -----------.----..519, 527,667 Clinch, Lient. Ralfe: Recommended for ensigncy..... -.. --- 614 Clinton, Sir Henry: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand 350, 393, 399, 569 Letter to, from Gen. Frederick Haldimand 418, 463, 470, 496. 590 Clowes, Lient.: Relieved by Ensign McDougall.......------..... 574 Cochrane, Capt. Gavin: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet......---72, 102 Letter to, fromn Capt. Donald Campbell.. - - 78 In poor health at New York......-.....--... -- 149 In New York.....-------------.................----------- 245 Alluded to-....-.....7, 49, 50, 51, 69, 78, 103, 104, 118, 203, 233, 241 Coleman, Mr.: Master builder.......................-------... 379 Alluded to..........---...............---------... 583 Colhoon, Tljomas: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet...--.... 49 Collet, Daniel: Alluded to------..................----...............------- 188 Colletton, Lieut.: Alluded to.......--......---------..................------------- 313 Collier, Sir George: On expedition up James river........-------.... 438 Colhot: Alluded to....--..........................------115 Collins, Lieut. Geo.: Succeeded by Lieut. John O'Donnellan...- 131 Collison, Lieut.: Alluded to.-----------.......-................----------------..-. 416 Constant, John Baptiste: Alluded to--..----.-----------. -------- 442

Cope, Sergt.: Recommended for the purchase of an Ensigncy --.---...........----.........-..........------ Cornwall, Richard: Letter from, to Capt. Robert Mathews..--.. Master builder on Lake Erie fourteen years

171 674 674



Page 684


684

INDEX.

Cox, Mr.: Alluded to..-----

Page. 731

Cra~mahe, H. T.: Letter from, to Gov. Murray ---------- 14 Cresap, Col.: Alluded to ------------------------------ 264 Crocket, Col.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 554 Croghan, Mr.: Goes to Detroit -------------------------- 97 Returned from Detroit to Fort Pitt -----114 Arrival at Fort Pitt ---------------------- 134, Gone to Bledford ------------------------- 144 Required to reduce expeuses of Indian department ---------------------------- 170 Raises 25 men for Fort Littleton ---------- 199 Arrival in New York----------------------2833 Alluded to ------------ 52, 70, 74, 85, 126, 127, 148, 199, 207, 224, 293 Croghan, Capt: Allrudedto-----------------31



Croghan, George: Letter from: To Gen. Jeffery Amherst -------- Col. Henry Bouquet---------------- Capt. William Trent and Alexander Towery --- - - - - - -- - - - - - Cuisy, Gordien D.: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand Cummings, Sergt.: Alluded to - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- Curry, Capt.: Alluded to.........................----- Cuyler, Lieut.: His party cut off by Indians at mouth of Detroit river ------------------------- Defeat~ed near the mouth of Detroit river - Alluded to - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -

183 192 58 537 152 57 188 217 199

DeEstning, Count: Page. Alluded to-----------------------------4119, 435 Defau, - Alluded3 to--------------------------------1427 De uasw, Capt.: Arrival nt Fort Pitt ---------------- 91 Alluded to--------------------------------9 De Haas, J. P.: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet----- 60 Dejean, Mr.: Alluded to.------------------------ 31.5,.5-18, 549 Dejean, P.: Letter from: To Commandant at Detroit------------ 549 Gen. Frederick Haldimand ---------- 550 Dejean, Phillip: Justice of the Peace nat Detroit --------3121 Delgarno, Lieut.: Alluded to ---------------------------- 567, 56S Demeler, Ensign: Alluded to ------------------------------- 107 De Peyster, Major Arent S.: Letter from: To Thomas Bentley-------------------- 455 Lieut. Col. Mason Bolton.-A48, 495. 501, 519, 526, 531, 536, 540, 553, 555, 566, 574. 578 Lieut. Col. John Campbell----------- 411 Gen. Frederick Haldimand-'-----125, 4217 Capt. R. B. Lernoult ---------------- 437 Brig. Gen. H. Watson Powell..580, 581, 591, 592, 600, 613, 614, 629, 640, 644, 646, 661 Letter to: From Thomas Bentley----------- 548, %A.,563 Capt. Henry Bird..524, 527, 533, 53S, 545 Capt. Isidore Cee----- 635 Louis C-'hevalier ---------------- 352 Thomas Finchley---------------- 665 E. Foy.-------------------------- 35 0 C. Gautier--------------------- 397 Gen. Frederick Haldimand-----4020 Capt. Alexander McKee.-.-.5.41, 597, 617 David Mitchell ------------------ 590 Capt. Mompesson --------------- 575 Capt. R. B. Lernoult.------------ 56 9 Lieut. Gov. Patrick Sinclair--_ 499 Capt. A. Thompson-------------- 598 Thompson and McKee------658 Commandant at Michilimackinac.----- 3 2d, Asks for two companies at Detroit to act with the Indians ----------------------- 495 Alluded to------3.3, 372, 401,405, 428,431, 5214 54 5, 557, 566, 571, 628, 6363 De Rocheblave, Mr.: Complaint against, by Thomas Bentley...-- 3 22W Alluded to----------------- 321, 322, 323, 3-24, 325 326, 3219, 331,1332 De Quindre, Mr.: Alluded to-------------------------------- 600 De Quindre, Lieut. Dagrenux: Alluded to ---------------------------- 591, 6' 32 De Stans, Mr.: Alluded to-------------------------------- 50 Detroit: Description of, in 1760 -------------------- 48 Not a sick man in the Garrison ----------- 79.1dan oun Ilstobe eld t-----------8

D. Dalling, Gen.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 563 Daizell, Capt.: Sent to Niagara -------------------------- 193 At Presque Isle -------------------- &------ 223 Alluded to ------------------------ 182, 209, 236 Darby, Col.: Alluded to-------------------------------- 58 Dare, Capt.: Alluded to.------------------------------- 667 Davere, Sir Robert: To make the tour of the lakes------------- 139 Will pass the winter at Detroit------------ 164 Murdered by Indians, --------------------- 196 Davidison, Lieut.: Lost on Lake Erie ----------------------- 245 Davis, Ensign: Alluded to ------------------------------- 403 Day, Nathaniel: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand.378.etter to: From -John Askiin. ---------------551 Sam Fleming----------------- 346, 369 Capt. Robert Mathiews3...----.574 DeCoagne, Mr.: Alluded to..---------------------------- 449!



Page 685


INDEX.

686

Detroit: Page. In want of provisions -----..--....--...... 125 False report by Indians that all the English were killed at.-- --..........- --------.... 136 Reinforced by Major Wilkins --...-...... 197 To be reinforced by the 42d and 77th regiments......--................------- 204 Lieut. McDonald's account of the attack on...---- ----------------------- 12 Returns of 1st battalion 60th regiment..... 230 Major Basset at, complains of too much rum among the Indians----....---..---- 296 Speech in Indian council at....----..---.. 308 Muster roll of employes in ship yard at - - 344 A rebel paper mentions an expedition resolved upon against...--.....---....... 362 Account of the pay of the officers and seamen at.....-----..----.--... --..----.. 368 Ordnance and stores for---....----.------ 407 Demand for guns and ordnance stores at._ 429 Rumor of a rebel movement to------......- 437 Estimate of rum necessary per day at-..... 440 Reported rebel expedition against--------- 448 Expenditure for rum at, beyond comprehension ------. _-------------- --------451 Report of serious intentions of the rebels against ---------------------------- 459 Reinforcements sent to...........------------- 459 Reinforced-...-. ----.--- ----- 476 Regulations for surgeons at.-----..---... 476 Petition of the merchants of----, 492 Memorandum of arms at ----------------505 Severe winter of 1779-80 --..------ ------. 519 Instructions sent to establish farming at. 543 Intelligence concerning.....-....------ 585, 587 Many residents of, alluded to- 585, 586, 587, 588 Merchandise and liquors for-----------.... 5%8 Return of ordnance for the defense of, demlidmaed in 1779 and 1780----------. -- 589 Rebels recruiting for an attack on----.---. 598 Two vessels ordered fitted up for the defense of----.----------------.----- 602 Ordnance stores at.-------------. --------- - 604 Heavy ordnance Rent to - ----------- ----616 Review of the situation at, and general instructions relative to--....---------- 622 Memorial of merchants at-.------. ------- 654 Amount of rum remaining ---------.--------656 Demand of ordnance supplies for.--------- 657 Dockslider, Lieut.: Skirmish with the enemy-....-----------... - 416 Dockstader, Lieut.: Alluded to.--.---- --------.. ------. - 384 Dodgo, Jean: Lettor4rom, to Mr. LaBron---------.. -- 465 Donnellan,.Lieut. John 0.: Succeeds Lieut. Geo. Collins.....-------------131 Dow, James:. etter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet-.--. 142, 269 Letter to, from Col. Henry Bouquet-....... 143 Dow, Lieut.: Expected at Presque Isle..--------------- 69 Shot through the body at Edge Hill-...... 220 Dow, Mr.: Alluded to.......--------- -- ----------- 73, 102

Ducharmes, Mr.: Page. Alluded to.....--...---..---.-----------.. 303,530 Dunbar, Major: Letter to, from Capt. Robert Mathews.... - 176 Duncan, David: Alluded to...--....---....-------.........- 316 DuPlessis, Enginer: Sent to reconnoitre up French Creek.. - - 35 Supposed to have been killed by Indians-. 37 Alluded to----.....---....--..._---------... 42, 46 Durant, Sergt. Maj. John: Alluded to---------....--.-.----.----.----..66 Dussault, Capt.: Alluded to---....... ---...........---------.. 3 Duties on peltrys recommended...------..--.. 17 Duvernet, Lient.: Ordered to Quebec --..-._.. _-...-..--.. - 568 Alluded to --.............-----.. ----------432, 601 Dysart, Lieut.: Promoted to Capt. Lieut.--------..---..--. 637 Dyson, Samuel: A deserter.......--------......------------. 316 E. Ecuyer, S.: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet--....- 188 Ecuyer, Capt.: Letter to, from Col. Henry Bouquet-...... 191 His action approved by Gen. Amherst-.... 207 Wounded in the leg-.--.----------------. 224 Alluded to----------.----..--....178, 179, 195,235 Ecuyer, Capt. Lieut,: Commission signed by Gen. Amherst..--. 110 Appointed to command a company.--..... 147 Eddington, Lieut. James: Commandant at Fort Cumberland -.....- 283 Edge Hill: Indians defeated at...-......------.--..... - 220 Ellice, Alexander: Petition in behalf of Detroit merchants- - 424 Elliot, Matthew: Letter to, from Alexander Blaine.--...317, 318 Account of papers taken from his trunk.. 320 Elliot, Matthew & Coy: Account of sale of skins ----- -...........318 Etherington, Capt. Geo.: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet-.... 162, 177 To go to Michilimackinac with his company--..--...-..--...-- ------...... ----- - 159 To take command at Michilimackinac.--. 161 Arrival at Michilimackinac -----------.. --- 167 Taken prisoner at Michilimackinac.--.-.. 217 Alluded to ---...----..---.-----.-----.. 182, 251 Eyre, Col.: Alluded to-----.-----.. --...........----- 131, 140 F. Fanquier, Lieut. Gov: Letter to, from Gen. Jeffory Amherst-.. 228 Fanquier, Gov.: Alluded to--.------.-------136, 142,145, 264, 287 Favro, Bazilo: Suspected of murder--.......-............. 315 Field, Major; Alluded to..............------..--...........--....... 264



Page 686


686

INDEX.

Finchley. Thomas: Page. Letter from, to Major Arent S. Do lPeyster- 665 Fleming, Sampson: Letter from, to Nathaniel Day -------346, 369 Appointed Deputy Commissary at Detroit- 128 Orders from Genl. Amherst ---------------- 128 Alluded to-------------------------------- 551 Fletcher, Capt.:Alluded to.------------------------------- 516 Flowers, Capt.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 302 Forsyth & Dyce of Detroit: Goods belonging to, at Carleton Island -.-507 Fort Augusta: Reinforcements fr----------195 Fort Cumberland: Commanded by Lienat. James Eddington- 283 Fort Ligonier: -Commanded by Capt. Stewart -------283 Fort Littleton:Garrisoned by twenty-five finen ------- 199 Fort Pitt: Information received at, of the declaration of war against Spain-------------------- 144 In a good1 state of defence.----------195 Small pox at----------------------------- 195 Commanded by Capt. William Murray___ 283 Foston, Michael: A prisoner from Detroit------------------ 653 Foy, Capt. E.: Letter from to Major Arent S. De Peyster- 350 Death of, alluded to--------------------4903, 435 France: Joined the Americans. --------------465 Treaty of the colonies -%ith, works a powerful change in the perople - ----------475 Franks, Mr.: Minuded to ------------------------------- 198 Fraser, Lieut.: Killed at Niagara carrying place ---------- 237 Fraser. Capt. Alex.: Letter from, to Capt. Rohert Mathewvs ---577 Alluded to ------------- 397, 401, 4147, 46:3, 513, 51.H French territory in America------------------- 3 French: Encourage the Indians against the English 190 G. Gage, Gen. Thomas: Letter from: To Gen. Jeffery Amherst.- -- - 14 Col. Henry BonqueL.24:, 244, 257, 269, 272, 274, 271$, 277, 278, 287, 289. 293, 294 Letterito: From Major Henry Bassett-----300,301. 307 Col. Henry Bouquet. - -216, 249, 261, 273, 279, 283 Capt. John Vattas ----- ---------.2.9J Gamielin, IHutache: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet ---- 0s Gates3, Major: Alluded to.--------.-.---------------- 57 G-antier, C.: Letter from, to 'Major Arent S. DePeyster- 397

Gautier, Mr.: Page Sent to the assistance of Lient. Gov. Hamilton ---------------------------------- 425 Alluded to ------------------------------- 411 Gehean, the priest: Causes 600 to swear allegiance to Congress at Vincennes -------------------7- -- -- - -426 Genevay, Louis: Letter from: To Win. Barr-------------------------- 653 Jaques Prir----------525 Letter to, from Joseph Howard --------385 Germain, Lord George: Alluded to.------------------------------- 689 German Flats: Destruction of buildings at ---------------3355 Gibson, Col. John: Letter to, from Moses Henry -------------- 422 Girty, George: Alluded to.---------------------------- 63 1, 658 Girty, James: Alluded to.------------------------------ 467 Girty, Simon: 800 dollars offered for his scalp------------14.:3 Alluded to. -----------------------597 Gladwin, Major Henry: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet-18,208 Commissson as Major-_----------23 Goes to Detroit with a large detachment-- 94 At Niagara on his way to Detroit.__------102 Leaves Niagara for Detroit with three hundred men--------------------------- 105 Embarked for Detroit with Lig ht Infantry 108 Canvalescing --------------------- 110 Recovered from his illness and teturns to Fort William Augustus ----------------- 116 To proceed to Detroit with Capt. Etherington's company------ ------------------- 158 To take command at Detroit.-------------- 159 To succeed Capt. Campbell at 'Detroit ---- 160 Arrival at Detroit ---------------------- 161 To continue in command at Detroit -----163 List of men discharged and replaced by- - - 175 Sends Indian intelligence to Capt. Ecuyer 183 To be reinforced by the 42d and 77th regiments -----------------------------. 204 Refuses to surrender Detroit ----------215 Alluded to----------- 37, 96, 106, 173, 179, 180, 223 227, 228, 236, 244, 245, 248 Gladwin, Col. Henry: Alluded to -------------------- 251, 253,1266, 267 Gleny, Lieut.: Under arrest ----------------------------- 416 Ordered to Detroit for court m11.rtial-----462 Goddard, Mr.: - Letter to, from Capt. Robert Mathews.---661 Alluded to-------------------------------8387 Gordon, Mr.: Alluded to------------------------------- 421 Gordon. Lieut.: Latter to, f romn Lieut. J. Christie.---------- 188 Gordon, Capt.: Paymaster ------------------------------- 91 Arrival at Fort Pitt -------------------- 906 Alluded to -------------- 82, 115, 124, 14ý4, 168, 241



Page 687


INDEX.

687 -

Gordon; Pere: Page. Death of, alluded to. --.....---..-..----. 447 Goroll, Lieut.: Commission signed by Gen. Amherst...... 142 Gorrell, Ensign: Returns to Detroit from Niagara...--..---- 79 Succeeds Lient. Ralfe..--........--- -..--.-- 147 Alluded to..-................67, 70, 72, 77, 136, 154 Gould, Mr.: Alluded to.----........ -----------....---. 279 Graham, Capt.: Arrival at New York-..---.--......- -..-----244 Graham, Capt. Lieut.: Killed at Edge Hill--....---..-...-----....- 220 Grant, Capt.: Appointed commandant of naval department on lakes.--....-.........--..--..-.... 46 Alluded to.--..-......-------313, 431, 436, 450, 495 520, 626, 644, 653 Grant, Major: Alluded to..-...------------------..----.... 32 Grant, Col.: Alluded to.- ---..-----.--.----..--.....---- 64 Grant, Commodore. Alluded to -------------............... 304, 305. 433 Grant, Alex.: Letter from, to Lieut. Col. Mason Bolton....40S 495, 502, 556 Grant, Capt. Alex.: Letter from: To Gen. Frederick Haldimand........311, 649 Brig. Gen. H. Watson Powell...593, 601 Letter to, from Capt. John Schank-.....55, 559 Grant, Chas.: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand 508 Grant, Col. James: Alluded to...-- ---------.-. 110 Grant, Capt. William: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet---.... 255 Commandant at Fort Bedford............ 283 Graverad, Albert: Alluded to..--...-------------. ---..---. 600 Graves, Admiral: Alluded to.---..--------...---------------- 563 Gray, the Sheriff: Alluded to.---------.......----------------- 490 Gray, Mr.: Alluded to..........---.--...........-- ----.. 401 Gray, Lieut.: S Under arrest.............---------- ------- 246 3ray, Edward: Letter to, from Capt. Robert Mathews.- 449, 526 Gray, Edward M.: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand 450 H. Haldimand papers.--.----------.. ------------. 296 Haldimand, Col.: Alluded to --..---..----------- ---- 287, 292 Haldimand, Gen. Frederick: Letter from: To Lioat. Col. Mason Bolton.... 318, 362, 367, 395, 429, 436, 451, 453, 458, 459, 472, 477, 506, 535, 543, 546, 557, 558, 565, 570, 577 Capt. Dederick Brehm.386, 398, 402, 432, 451 Major John Butler-..------------. 393



Haldimand, Gen. Frederick. Letter from: Page. To Lieut. Col. John Campbell -.......377, 3S7, 401, 441, 447 Sir Guy Carleton.----------- ---. -- 347 Lieut. Col. Thomas Carleton.-.----- 400 Col. Daniel Claus_--- -----.--- ---- 627 Sir Henry Clinton.418, 460, 463, 470, 496, 590 Major Arent S. DePeyster -..--..----. 402 Capt Frazer ----....------...---. - 463 Lient. Gov. Henry Hamilton........ 668 Capt. Harris--.. --....---....... 453, 458 Col. Johnson. -....- - ----.---- -. 628 Sir John Johnson.----.---... ------426 Lient. Col. Forbes Macbean-.......360, 639 Brig. Gen. Allan Maclean...-.- 473, 474, 505, 512, 562 Brig. Glen. H. Watson Powell.396, 583,618, 622, 626, 628, 641, 613, 650, 664, 670 Capt. John Schank-- ----.........-- 430, 431 Brig. Gen. Speth-..-..---- --.-- - 671 Letter to: From Wm. Barr.---..... --- -----618, 620 Major Henry Basset...310, 313, 314, 315 Thomas Bentley.-----.....- 472, 489. 560 Lieut. Col. Mason Bolton-.....-53,359, 363, 365, 370, 373, 415, 471, 474, 479, 506, 521, 567, 571 Capt. Dederick Brehm.....404, 410, 413 Lieut. Col. James Bruce.------. 437 Major John Butler.--------...-- 340, 383 Lieut. Col. John Campbell.359, 394, 481 Lieut. Col.Thomas Carleton.... 411 Louis Chevallier.--..---.-------- 375 Sir Henry Clinton---....... 350, 393, 569 Gordien D. Cuisy................ 537 Nathaniel Day--...----------.... 378 P. Dejean ---..-....---. ---- 550 Major Arent 8. De Peyster-.....425, 427 Capt. Alex. Grant..-----.----.. 311, 649 Chas. Grant.---..-----..--------. 508 Edward M. Gray........-..-- ---- 450 Joseph Howard--.....-.----... 662 Rev. Father Hubert----...---.. - 673 Lieut. Col. Forbes Macbean..... 637 Joseph B. Parent -..........- 630 Brig. Gen. H. Watson Powell..579, 584. 616, 636, 649, 654, 662, 666 Capt. John Schank-.........378, 431, 450 Dudley Templer...-.-----.....-- 316 Capt. John Vattas....-.....302, 305. 312 Memorial to: From John Macomb-----------...... ------ 582 Lieut. Jacob Schieffelin......... 578 Sketch of.--...-- ---....-----------------. 296 Congratulated on being appointed Commandor-in-Chief---...............-------------- 311 Speech to Indians by-.--..---.-----...... 444 Review of the situation at and genera] instructions relative to Detroit... 622 Hamback, Mr.: AUudod to...... --- -----. 7' Hamback, H.: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet...... 98 Alluded to..........-...-............... 99



Page 688


688 INDEX. Hamback, J. D.: Page. Hinton, robet dep~uty commissary: Page. Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet -----155 Taken prisoner by Simon Girty -------615 Hamback, T. D.: Hinxon, Capt.: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet-----50, 127 Alluded to ------------------------------- 546 Hamback, T.: Hirk, Capt.: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet-----168 Alluded to ------------------------------- 30 2 Hamback, W.: Hirsbman, Adam: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet ---- 0s Alluded to ------------------------------- 159 Hamilton, Mr.: -1 Hog Island: Minuded to------------------------------- 426 Rebel prisoners from Ohio to be settled on.565 Hamilton, Ensign: Holland, Major: Alluded to ---------------------------- 519, 527 Alluded to.------------------------------- 436 Hamilton, Gov:HomsEni: Ranaafifnnii;i Mnfii +th snnfaa9 Alluded to ------100, 105, 106, 110, 162, 211, 217

Alluded to--------- U-w194,i 195, 199,359, 374,41

Hamilton, Lieut. Gov. Henry: Letter to: From Gen. Frederick Haldimand-----610 Capt. Robert Mathews----------- 669 Adhemar St. Mri------319 Declaration relative to Thomas Bentley-327, 397, 644 Minuded to ------------- 437, 474, 477, 548, 550, 551 Hamilton, Willam: Minuded to ------------------------------- 329 H1ara, (en. Lieut.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 641 Hare, Capt.: Minuded to ---------------------------- 574, 579 Harify, Mr.:Alluded to ------------------------------- 620 Harper, the rebel prisoner: Minuded to ---------------------------- 546, 549 Harris, John: Letter to, from Col. Henry Bouquet ---- 2-67 Harris, Capt.: I Letter to, f rom Gen. Fred'ck Haldimand.A53, 558 Harris, Major: Alluded to -- ---------------------------- 513 Harrow, Lieut.: Alluded to----------------------------- 334, 593 Hartman, -: Alluded to ---------------------------- 266, 267 Hay, Capt.: Alluded to-------------------------------- 86 Hay, Lieut. Jehu: Commissioned ------------- 140, 161, 165, 251 Hay, Capt. Jehu: Alluded to ------------------------------- 143 Hay, Ensign Jehu: Appointed to a leutenancy --------------- 147 Hay, Major,Jehu: Parole of, honor - ------------------377 Hay, Ens. Win.: Alluded to ---------- ---------------------.35 Helm, Capt.: MIAluded to-------------------------------- 442 Henry, Moses: Letter from, to Col. John Gibson..--------- 422

Hoops, Mr.: Alluded to------------------------- 57, 61, 64, 68 Hopkins, Capt.: On his way to Detroit with his company of independents ---------- ---------------- 166 Sent back from Detroit to Niagara with his company-------:-------------------- 173 Hope, Capt.: Alluded to-----------------233 Houghton, Mr.: Alluded to ---------------------------- 447, 490 Houghton, Lieut.: Miluded to----------------------------- 481, 491 Howard, Mr.: Miluded to ------------------------------- 450 Howard, Joseph: Letter from: To Louis Genevay---------------------- 385 Gen. Frederick Hadilmand---------662 Capt. Robert Mathews-------------- 669 Letter to, from Capt. Robert Mathews. -663, 670 Assisted Th omas Bentley to escepe. - 490 Court proceedings against ---------------- 503 Condemned and fined fifty pounds------504 Licensed to trade at Michilimackinac---- 670 Hubert,-_ _ Minuded to-------------------------------- 57 Huburt, Rev. Father: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand 673 Hughes, Lieut. Gov.: Alluded to---------------------- --------- 438 Huntington, - - A prisoner------------------------------. 600 Hutchins, Mr.: Succeeds Ensign Gorrell ------------------ 148 Returns to Fort Pitt from the Western Indianue-------------------------------- 168 Alluded to ---------------------- ------ 150, 151 Hutchins, Lieut.: Alluded to ---------------------------- 258, 263 Hutchins, Ensign: Commission signed by Gen. Amherst---- 143 Alluded to ------------------------------- '.6 Hutchins, Thomas: Recommended for Ensigucy ---------- 1231, 126 Illinois: Rebels reported there in great numbers---- 352 Scalps, prisoners and killed reported f rom the -- ------------ --------------------- 530

Hicks, -: To betriqd for aspy -------------- No evidence to prove him a spy ------ To be tried by the civil lawHicks, Gorsham: Deposition of ---------------------------

258 2O78 282 253



Page 689


INDEX.

689

Indians: Page. In relation to--.........------------------- 11

Indians:

PI

Account of the Indian trade in the Upper Country......................-......... Back of the British Settlements in 1721 in the interest of the French ------------- Encouragement of trade with, recommended -----------.------------.Bad effects from selling them rum........ Moving down the Ohio--....--------..Expect presents.....---.............. Go to Niagara for rum..................... Preparation against the English-.......... To surprise Fort Pitt ---.---.......---. Repeated insults and robberies by--........ Cattle sent to Detroit to treat the chiefs with...-......-..--..........---..- - Abstract of Indian speeches at Detroit-..Their plot discovered...................... Gone to their hunting---................ Pleased with the news of the Spanish war. No longer to be maintained by the Crown. Detain captives contrary to promise...... Speech of chief of the Miamis --------- Shawanese deliver up five prisoners at Fort Pitt-...................- ----...Of Detroit much displeased at ther country being ceded to Great Britain........... Intelligence from the chiefs of the Delawares ------------ ----------- False report that all the English at Detroit and Sandusky were killed...........Cut off Lieut. Cuyler's party at mouth of Detroit river-------------.----------- Destroy Sandusky-............ Cause a general panic on the frontiers.... Designs against Detroit... -.---.-.-- Murder Sir Robert Davers, Lieut. Robertson and their boats' crew........... Attack Detroit and are repulsed........... Attack Detroit.... ----------............... Murder of Sir Robert Davers, Capt. Robinson, Mackay and Fisher by, alluded to..---... - ----------------.-------.... Detain Capt. Campbell and Lieut. McDougal prisoners...--...------.... ------- Surprise and take Venango..-----.-----.. Attack on Detroit-.----.........-----.. Take Fort Miamis...---------------------- Massacre at St. Joseph.----. ----------- Massacre at Michillimackinac......----- Defeated at Edge Hill by Col. Bouquet-... Massacre of Lieuts. Campbell's and Frazer's companies at the Niagara carrying place------------ --------------- List of towns and distances from Fort Pitt...-----..-------..... -------------.. Peace made with, at Detroit..------------.. Delawares, Shawaneso and Mingoes submit to terms of peace.----.--.. ------.. Deliver up their prisoners ----.------- Influenced against the English by the French ---------.....---------------- Pontiao incites the Illinois Indians against the English.------ ----------- -- - Speech in council at Detroit-..---. ----- 87

I

14 7 12 68 69 70 71 77 78 83 85 87 89 121 153 153 157 181 183 183 186 186 188 189 192 196 196 197 202 202 202 211 212 217 217 218 220 237 260 277 280 281 284 291 308

Names of chiefs at Niagara.-.....-...-.... A measure to deceive the rebels in the Province of New York_...-- - _--------. Request a post established at Ontario... Have their spies along the frontier....... Fears of an encroachment from the Virginians... ----------...................... Expense of meeting in December, 1777.... Peculiarities of the Pottawattomies.--... Efforts of the English to retain their friendship..... ------ --------------. Inclination to return to their old friends, the French.............................. Mohawk and Ochquaga villages destroyed by the rebels ----------. ----------- Renew their friendship with the French -- Rebels lying and making great promises to Speech from the Miamis.----. -------- Efforts made to prevent their making peace with the rebels....----------- Efforts of the French to influence them against the English -----................. Speech to Capt. R. B. Lernoult............ Attachment to the French.---- -------.Reasons for and fears of their abandoning the English-----_ ---- ------------ Invoice of presents for Michilimackinac_. Scalps, prisoners and killed reported from the Illinois-.......-_----------_-- Gathering of the warriors near the forks of the Miamis--..................... --...... A body of, sent to Vincennes, the Ohio, towards Kentucky, and towards Fort Pitt -...----------------..--------------- Chickasaws demand assistance............ Five hundred warriors join the Spaniards. Treachery of, and massacre by, at Fort Liberty._.__--- - ----- ----....-.------.. Sacks and Renard take up the hatchet against the English..-------........----- Speeches of..............----.....-------- Speech of, at Detroit.-.................--- Deed for Mackinac Island...............-------- Give assurance of friendship with the English..---.....-_-------- --.----------. Attack a party of rebels near the Wabash. Intelligence from the Shawanese ----....... Invoice of goods for presents to.......---- Indian Department: Expenses under Mr. Groghan very high.-- Indian Goods: List of prices fixed by Mr. Croghan-..-.... Irving, Capt.: Alluded to...---..--------..-----------.--- Irwin, Mr.: Alluded to................---..........----------......J. Jamets, Lieut-: Arrived at Detroit ----............... -.... Goes to St. Marys-...................------- Death of..--........----------.----..------ Killed at Michillimackmac. -......... Alluded to.-..-------.....----- --..-.. ----..

age. 337 340 341 342 366 371 375 384 419 422 423 426 443 461 464 468 497 497 517 530 531 532 536 537 539 575 593 596 633 638 646 646 658 157 59 232 57 \ýl 'k*)" 161 161 211 217 182



Page 690


690

INDEX.

Jefferson, Thomas: Page. Letter t~o, fromn Col. Gi. Clark ------- 465 Jenkins, Lieut.: Letter f rom, to Col. Henry Bouquet-_105, 118 To take possession of the post of Oniatanon --------------------------------- 120 Alluded to ------------- ----------- 162, 24-8, 25S Johnson, Capt.: Killed at Niagara carrying place ---------- 237 John, Capt.: Letter from, to Col. Daniel Claus ---------- 617 Joheson, Col.: Lett-er to, from Gee. Frederick Haldimiand 6 2) 8 Alluded to --------5-21, 622, 627, 650, 654, 661, 666 Johnson, Col. tiny: Alluded to----------------------------- 312,438 Johnson, Sir John: Letter to: From Lieut. Col. Mason Bolton --------- 471 Gen. Frederick Haldimand----- 4216 With a large detachment sent to assist the Indians in hopes of preventing their makring piece with the rebels ------------ 4641 Arrival at Carleton Island ---------------- 4ý77 Alluded to ----------------- 106, 533, 534, 577, 5'S3 Johnson, Lieut. William: Alluded to ------------------------------- 454 Johnson, Sir William: Letter from, to Geu. Jeffery Amherst-----2-111 Letter to, from Col. Henry Bouquet-----259 To hold ain Indian council at Detroit---- 85 To be informed of Indian plot ------------ 89 To meet the Indians at Detroit ----------- 102 At Detroit------------------------------- 106 Embarked for Detroit-------------------- 108 Arrives at Sandusky.--------------------- 111 Success in his treaty with the Indians at Detroit -------------------------------- 114 Alluded to-.-68, 105, 127, 198, 207, 208, 245, 257, '270 273, 275, 281, 28.3, 294,.901,t 308, 313 Johnson, Sir William and Major Gludwin: On their way to Detroit with three hundred light infantry-------------------------- 100 Arrival at Detroit.------------------- 103 K.

Lafayette, Gee. Page. Alluded to-------------------------------419 LaForce, - - To command the naval department on Lake Ontario----------------------- 584 LaForce, Agnes: Petition of-------------------------------1494 Laforce, N.: Letter from, to --------- 152 Lake, Capt.: Alluded to - ---------------------42 7 Lake, Commissary: Alluded to-------------------------------- 132 Lake Erie: The building of a fort on, recommended 10 Lake Huron: Soundings of, alluded to ------------ ----- 165 Lake Superior country: Amount of trade in, in 1778------------ 337 Lamplie, Jacob: Time expires an(d receives bounty-----163 LaMotte, Capt.: Arrival at Niagara -----------------------1335 La Moths, Capt.: Alluded to------------------------- 441. 551, 668 Lane, James: Aluded to -------------------------------- 159 Langlade, Mr.: Sent to the assistance of Lieut. Gen. Hamilton------------------------------ 425 Alluded to------------------------- 411, 416, 456 L asaide, - Alluded to ------------------------------- 303 LeBoeuf: Loss of post at--------------------------- 205 Le Due, Mons.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 534 LoMaistre, Francis: Letter from, to Lieut. Col. Forbes Macbean 661 Lernonit, Capt. R. B.: Letter from: To Lieut. Col. Mason Bolton.------439, 467 Major Arent S. DePeyster------------ 569 Brig. Gen. Allan Maclean ------572, 575 Brig. Gjen. H. Watson Powell -----640 Letter to: From Lieut. Thomas Bennet ----------- 455 Major Arent S. De Peyster-----437 A. Mc Cormick------------------ 468 Capt. Alexander Mc Kee -----360, 423 Gee. Monforton ----------------- 412 In command at Detroit------------------- 336 IIl with the goat ------------------------- 415 Indian speech to ------------------------- 468 Alluded to 355, 359,:1.64, 366, 373, 374, 399, 405, 414, 128, -131, 454, 474, 568, 674 Le Roux, Mr.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 525 Leslye, Lieut. Williarri: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet ----152, 166 Taken prisoner at Michilinackinac-----217 Alluded to --------------- 67, 70, 104, 116, 150, 151 Lessey, Matthew: Witness to deed for Mackinac Island ----63-4 Lewis, Col.: Alluded to----------------270

Kennedy, Patrick: Contractor-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - King's Birthday: preparation to celebrate---------- Kirk, Capt.: Alluded to - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Krynersley, Lieut.: A llded to - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - LaBalm, Col.: Killed at Miaiuis Town ---------- Minuded to_. -- -------- ---- LaBron, Mr.: Letter to, from Jean Dodge -------- LaChance, Mr.: Alluded to------------------------------ LaChappelle, Bazille: Alludedto------------

321 71 313 567 582 630 465 325 330



Page 691




INDEX. Lewis, John! Page. McDonald, Lient. James: Recommended for an ensigncy.....----.--.....-. 282 Goes to Niagara-....... Licking Creek: Sent to Niagara---..-. Engagements near--..........------------------........... 542 Expected at Detroit - Lindsay, Mr.: To purchase Capt. Sch Alluded to----........-----.---.........................--------------- 458 His account of the atta Little, Capt.: Allnded to ----- Alluded to.--......-..--.----..-----.-------------...... 82 McDonald, Capt. John: Livins, Mr.: Letter to, from Capt. ] Chief Justice of Canada---------..--.....-----.... 401 Drowned----..--.... Lochray, Col. Archibald: McDougall, Mr.: Letter to, from Joseph Reed....----.........-------- 651 Alluded to.....------- With 36 of his command killed on the Ohio 658 McDougall, Capt.: Logan, Col.: To command at Carlet Alluded to..--.........------.---..--......------------...... 554 Permission granted h Lord, Capt.: pany...-----.-----. Alluded to --------. - -..-----------.-------- 323 Alluded to-............. Lorimer, Mr.: McDougall, Ensign: Alluded to.._--.------.------------------- 447 Relieves Lieut. Clowef Loring, Commodore: McDougill, Lieut. George Ordered to Niagara.---------..........----------- 153 Letter from to Col. H< Lorrain, Nicholas:. Alluded to--------------------------- 443 McDougal, Lieut.: Loudown, Lord: Commission received Alluded to................--------------------------- 133 Prisoner to the Indiar Louisiana: Taken prisoner....---- Boundary between, and Canada.-...----------.. 19 Escapes from the Indi Lowrey, -: Alluded to..-........--- -- Alluded to.............----------------........---------96, 101 McDowel, Mr.: Lowrie, the sutler: A trader, killed by an Alluded to...............---------------------------99 McGregor, Gregor: Lowry, the trader: Affidavit of....... Alluded to................------------............--------------- 66 McIntosh, Col.: Lyon, Benjamin: Alluded to -----..... Witness to deed for Mackinac Island..... 634 McIntosh, Brig. Gen.: Alluded to..........---- M. McIntosh, Lieut. James: Killed at Edge Hill _McAlpin, Capt.: McIntosh, Lieut. John: Alluded to...................-------------------------. 492 Alluded to....---......---- Macbean, Lieu. Col. Forbes: McKee, Capt. Alexaudor: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand 637 Letter from: Letter to: To Major Arent S. From Gen. Frederick Haldimand-..360, 639 Capt. R. B. Ler Francis LeMaistre.....-------........ 661 Letter to, from Josep Memorandum by, for Gen. Haldimand.... 432 Arrival at Detroit wil McBeath, Mr.: Alluded to-...... Engaged as surgeon's mate --------.------- 669 Mackinac Island: McCausland, Ensign Robert: Indian deed for-...... Letter from, to Lieut. Col. Mason Bolton. 520 The new fort on, in McCarty, Capt. Richard: tion...- - Killed near the Wabash.........----------------. 646 McLean, Dr.: Macomb, Alex. and William, Detroit mer- Alluded to-----........-- chants: Maclean, Brig. Gen. Allai Memorial of.----.............--------------------. 523 Letter from, to Capt. Macomb, John: Memorial to Gen. Frederick Haldimand-.. 582 Letter to: Macomb & Edgar: From Gen. Freder Alluded to...............-------- --------------- 57 McCormick, A.: Capt. R. B. Ler Letter from, to Capt. R. B. Lernoult -....- 468 Capt. Robert M McCullough, Samuel: Deserted....----.........----------------------34 Blockaded by a rebel MoDonald, Lieut. James: Alluded to.......... Letter from to Col. Henry Bouquet......- 63, Maclean, Lieut. Archibal 110, 174, 212 Alluded to...........

691 Page...................... 88..--------............... 95 101 losser's company.-173, 174 ack on Detroit....-. 212 -.--- 84, 104, 182, 208 Robert Mathews.. 491 - -.........--- - --- - --. 496 ----------.......... 251 on Island.----------.. 403 im to sell his com-.................. 512. ---- -----.......... 412, 505 s.-----. ----- 574 enry Bouquet--.. -248, 250, 252, 266,'267. 74 s --------...................--------. 202................------------ 215 ians at Detroit....-. 218...................... 166 Indian--...-------.... 296 --................... - 321...----------.................. 374 ----------...................... 474 -------.................. 220 --------..................... 226 De Peyster.530, 541,597, 647 noult..........--------.....360. 423 )h Brant.------..........------ 655 th Indian Chiefs-..... 614 -..-.----274, 528,533..............-------.... 633 process of construc-....................638,650...........------............ 109 n: Robert Mathews.-490, 512, 533, 573, 585 ick Haldimand....478, 474, 505, 512, 562 noult....-......... 572, 575 [athews....480, 482, 516, 534, 570, 653 fleet................. 464 -.....................37, 438 d:...................... 513, 514



Page 692


692

INDEX.

Maclean, bLient. Lauchlil: Page. Alluded to.---------------------------- 513, 514 Mcbeod, Capt.: Expected at Dotroit from Niagara -----110 Macbeod, Normand: Affidavit of -----------------------------.321 McLond, Lient.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 31 McNeil, (Capt.; Alluded to------------------------- 31i M aisonville, Mr.: Alluded to.----.----------------------- 315, 520 Maistre, Frank L.: Letter from to bLient. Col. Mason Bolton-- 568 Man. Thomas: Alluded to------------------------------- 590 Mant. Lient.: Alluded to------------------------------- 232 Mather, Capt.: To relieve Venango-----------------------.5-4 Asks leave of absence.-------------------- 109 Death of, allnded to---------139, 140 Alinded to --------------------------- 55, 86, 92 Mathews, James: Alluded to ---------------------------- 328, 329 Mathews, Capt. Robert: Letter from: To Capt. Burnet ---------------------- 535 Lient. Col. John Campbell. -.- 446, 449, 515, 516, 548, 552, 557, 596, 645, 648, 656, 663 Nathaniel Day---------------------- 574 Major Dnnbar ---------------------- 476 Mr. Goddard ----------------------- 661 Edward Gray--------------------- 449, 526 Lient. Gov. Henry Hamilton -------- 669 Joseph Howard------------------- 663, 670 Brig. Gen. Allan Maclean--480, 4892, 491, 516, 534, 570, 653 Brig. Gen. H. Watson Powell - -624, 642, 673 George Pownall-------------------- 524 Capt. Twiss ------------------------ 525 Letter to: From Lient. Col. John Campbell.523, 547, 552, 556, 645 Richard Cornwall------------------- 674 Capt. Alex. Fraser ------------------ 577 Joseph Howard--------------------- 669 Brig. Gen. Allan Maclean..------490, 512,.533, 573, 5.85 Brig. Gea. H. Watson Powell- ----668, 6712 To succeed Capt. Foy--------------------- 435 Minuded to ------------------------ 355, 364, 415 Maurer, Col.: Alluded t,-------------------------------- 31 Mellestre, Mr.: Alluded to------------------------------- 48 Meazies, bLent. Charles: Alinded to ------------------------------- 226 Mercer, Col.: Minuded to--------------------- 31, 32, 37, 38, 40 Metham, Ensign: Commanding at Fort Erie, alluded to----306 Meyer, bLient. Elias:

Meyer, Lieut. Elias: Page. Orders for ------------------------------- 102 At Sandusky----------------------------- 122 Alludd to----------------104, 108, 120 Meyer, Capt. Elias: Letter to, from Capt. Donald Campbell.--- 113 Alluded to ------------------------------- 116 Meyer, Capt. bLient.: Commissioned--------------------------- 140 Meyer,bLient.: Appointed Capt. Lieut. and ordered to Quebec--------------------------------- 147 Miamis: Four horses ordered for the carrying place at---------------------------------- 180, 181 Surrendered to the Indians.--------------- 217 Intelligence from ------------------------ 442 Miamis Town: Engagement at.-------------------------- 581 Michilimackinac: Massacred by the Indians ----------------- 218 Removal of the fort to the island ---------- 502 Ordnance stores at ----------------------- 604 Military Dispatches -------------------------- 23 Milne, Dr. James: Commits Suicide ------------------------- 109 Mississippi: Rout to, from Montreal ------------------- 5 Mitchell, Mr.: Alluded to ------------------------- 98, 156, 601 Mitchell, Abraham: Alluded to-------------------------------- 81 Mitchell, David: Letter from, to Major Arent S. DePeyster. 590 Mitchelqon, Lieut.: Alluded to-------------------------------- 86 Molly: Minuded to------------------------- 361, 362, 627 Mompesson, Capt.: Letter from, to Major Arent S. De Peyster. 575 Sent to Michilimackinac -----------------,571 Minuded to------------------------- 336, 574, 616 Monckton, Gen. Robert: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet.-...-32, 38, 39, 56, 60, 65, 85, 92, 93, 106 Letter to, from Col. Henry Bouquet. --- U, 52, 54, 64, 69, 73, 81, 91, 96, 108, 114 Instructions to Major Rogers.............-- 40 Instructions to Capt. Campbell ----------- 42 Appointed Governor of New York......... 84 Monckton, Gen.: Alluded to....30, 31, 35, 37, 46, 47, 48. 51, 62, 67, 72, 83, 123, 124, 126, 129, 262

Monforton, Gen.: Letter from, to Capt. R. B. Lernoult. Monopolies Abolished..................---- Montgomerie, Mr.: Alluded to............. Montgomery, Col.: Alluded to............. Montour, Capt.: Alluded to............. Montreal: Rout from, to the Mississippi.........--- Report of the state of..................--- Description of its fortifications. -.-----

412 17 443 549 33 5 14 15

Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet- -107, 110, 117, 1221



Page 693


INDEX. 693 9 Montreal: Page. Ordnance stores: Page. Capitulation of----.....----. -------------- 29 Demanded for Detroit. -...-------- 657 Memorial of the merchants of-..-....------ 620 Ordinance and stores: Montreal and Canada: At Detroit and Michilimackinac..--.,---- 604 Surrendered to Gen. Amherst-.----------.. 36 Oughton, Col.: Montresor, Lieut.: Alluded to..-....- ----.------------------- 72 Alluded to.--..-----......----... ---.---- 233 Ourry, Lieut: Montrose, Mr.: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet.----- 189 Alluded to---..---......-----.........-- --.. 436 Ourry, Capt.: Moores, Mrs.: To send ammunition to Bedford........_. 107 Alluded to--.......--...------------------. 522 At Bedford.. _---------- ---...... -----122 Morris, Capt.: Alluded to.-------._------... --.....69, 97, 199. 236 Alunded to. ----------. ---- --.- 277, 288, 290 Ours, Mr.: Mortier, Mr.: Takes charge of stores.------------------ S Alluded to--------.---------.-------170, 171 Moss, Corporal: Alluded to--....---...........---.------.. 73, 102 Paine, Mr.: Mulligan, Mr.: Alluded to.--.-----.... -.......---..-...- 27 Alluded to---......-------.....----------..- 317 Painter, Lieut.: Munro, Gen.: Lost on Lake Erie.__--.---------------- 245

I

Alunded to-- --....................-- ----- 439 Munstead, Major: Alluded to------..........---. -----.-----. 263 Munster, Baron: Alluded to........--.-------------------.--- 245 Murray, Capt.: Commandant at Fort Pitt-..-----..... ---- 283 Murray, Gen.: Alluded to-.....--.----.---.-------.--- -. 29 Murray, Gov.: Letter to, from H. T. Cramahe....------- 14 Murray, Daniel: Letter to, from Thomas Bentley -.--.....324, 417 Petition of -----..----......----.---------. 321 Alluded to.--.......-----.------------------ 329 Murray, Muckle: Alluded to-.------.. -------------------- 330 N. Nairne, Major: Letter to, from F. L. M......--...--------.. 462 Alluded to------ - -------------453, 463 Naval Armament: Salaries of officers in.........-------..--.- 33 Navarre, Mr.: To furnish flour, peas and Indian corn... 47 Alluded to-......----------. --.------------ 45, 49 Nelson, --:. Alluded to.------------.... -------------.. 124 Neson, Major: Alluded to...--------... ---------------- 433 Niagara: In want of provisions-.------...----------- 125 Description of fort at-.....------.--------. 355 Ordnance and stores for --------.------- 407 Nova Scotia: Settlement of, recommended.------.----. 9 0. Officers commanding posts:. Allowances to.--------....---.. --------- 25 Ogle, Capt.: Alluded to..--------. ---------------- 200 Oswegatchie: Attacked by the Indians..---------.. ------ 421

Palles, Mr.: Dangerously wounded.-_ -----------

226

Parent, Joseph B.: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand 630 Prisoner at Montreal.-------.------- ---- 31 Park, Capt.: Alluded to ----......-------... ----..---..415, 573 Panli, Ensign: - Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet-..-... 157 Arrival at Fort Pitt-__..---. ----..... 96 At Sandusky-.---................--......-. 122 Escapes from the Indians at Detroit...--. 219 Alluded to..-- ---...... ------........---108, 223 Peebles, Mr.: Wounded at Edge Hill.....---...--........ 220 Alluded to...........-------..-..---...... 2-34 Peightal, George: Time expires and receives bounty..-..--..- 163 Pennsylvania: The Ohio as its boundary disputed --.....- 257 Perrault, Mons.: Alluded to---...--......... -----.---........ 458 Perry, Col. James: Alluded to...--... -----..... ----------- 651 Pfister, Francis: Killed at Bennington-..........--....... 5S2 Philadelphia: Reported taken by Gen. Howe-....--.----. 335 Phillips, Capt.: Alluded to.....----......--- --............ 116, 172 Phillips, Capt. Lieut.: Commission received----.....--.-----.74, 149, 235 Phillips, Gen.: Alluded to --.........----.. -----......... 550, 551 Pipe, Capt.: A Delaware chief alluded to -....---------..276 Piper, Lieut.: Shoots an Indian.-..--.--.. ----..-.--. - 83 Pitcher, Mr.: Musters the 58th regiment.............. 149 Plumsted & Franks: Alluded to.............---------..........200, 232 Pontiac: The leader in the attack on Detroit........ 213 To meet Col. Bradstreet at Sandusky-..... 277

Not inclined to peace..---......-----..... - 288



Page 694


60i4

INDF9X.

Portier, Jaques: Page. Letter to, from L. Genevay --------------- 525 Pothier, Tousaint: Alluded to -------------------------------454 Potts, Mr.: Allued o---------------------100 Potts, Lieut.: Alluded to------------------------------- 250 Potts, Capt.: Alluded to-------------------------------8373 Powell, Brig. (len. H. Watson: Letter from: To (len. Frederick Haldimand..- -579, 584, 616, 636, 649, 654, 662, 666 Capt. Robert Mathews ------------ 668, 672 Letter to: From Major Arent S. De Peyster..58, 581, 591, 592, 600, 613, 614, 629, 640, 644, 646, 664 Capt. Alex. Grant -------------- 593, 601 (Gen. Frederick Haldimand-396, 583, 618, 626, 628, 650, 864, 670 Capt. R. B. Lernoult------------- 640 Capt. Robert Mathews ----624, 642, 673 Lieut. (bv. Patrick Sinclair- -631, 638, 639, 671 Alluded to ---------------------------- 577, 627 Pownall. George: Letter to, from Capt. Robert Mathews --- 524 Prentys, Mr.: A]lluded to------------------------------- 256 Presque Isle: 1 In want of Provisions-------------------- 123 Preparation for an attack by Indians- ----189 Loss of post at--------------------------- 205 To be retaken---------------------------- 2(7 Ensign Christie's account of the battle at.-20 Surrendered and taken prisoners ---------- 218 Prevost, Lieut.: Alluded to ---------------------------- 258,283 Prevost, Col.: Succeeds (len. Stanwix -------------------- 132 Commands 1st battalion ----------------- 148 Price, Ensign George: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet ----201 Commission received--------------------- 74 Alluded to------------------------------- 235 Proclamation: Declaring the cessation of arms and restoring of peace made known at Fort Pitt, etc.------------------------------------ 176 Provisions: Ordered to Detroit ----------------------- 617 Purenasse, Mr.: Alluded to -------------------------------2308 q

Rankin, David: Page. Witness to deed for Mackinac leland-___634 Rebels: Lying and making great promises to the Indians ----------- -------- ------------ 427 3,000 reported marched against the Shawanese ---------------------------------- 468 Large body of, gone down the Ohio - 468 Read, Mr.: Alluded to----------------------------- 64, 236 Reed, Joseph: Letter from, to Col. Archibald Lochruy -- 651 Reid, Col. John: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet-----2715 Arrival at Ligonier ----------------------- 272 Highly commended by Col. Bouquet ----282 Alluded t--------------295 Reinforcements: A fleet from England with 2,000 men - 350 Reports on American colonies -------- ------ I Reports on American colonies: Mississippi ------------------------------- 2 Return: Monthly, of ports on the lakes------------- 345 Of engineers stores taken at Michilimackinac --------------------------- 3.57, 3S0 Of ordnance stores taken at Michilimackinac----------------32 Of powder, small arms, etc., at Detroit and Michilimackinac -------------------.576 Revenue: In Canada-------------------------------- 22 Reynolds, Mr.: Alluded to -------------------------- -503, 531 Rhode Island: Arrival of seven French ships and 6,000 troops at ------------------------------- 591 Ridge, Capt.: Ailluded to ------------------------------- -5 2 Robertson, Lieut.: Murdered by Indians---------------------- 196 Robertson, Lieut. Col.: Alluded to ------------------------------- 291 Robertson, Col.: Alluded to ---------------------------- 245, 287 Robertson, (len.: Letter from, to (len. Carleton-------------342 0 Robertson, William: Letter from, to Joseph Willams ---------- 603 Letter to, from Joseph Williams---------- 002 Robinson, Capt.: Alluded to--------------------------- 165, 334, 412 Robison Thomas: Letter from, to Major Henry Basset-----306 Rocheblave, Mr.: Escaped from the rebels ------------------ 569 Alluded to -------------------------------668 Rodeart, Mr.: Alluded to -------------------------------2,44 Rodney, Sir George: Alluded to -------------------------------.562 Rodolph, Alluded to ------------------------------- 169 Rogers, Major: Arrival at Presque Isle with rangers---- 3S8 Instructions to, by (len. Monckton---------40

Quin, William: Alluded to------------------------------

283

R, R~afe, Lieut.:Resignation of----------- ---------------- 123 Has permission to sell his ensignoy.-----126 Succeeded by Lieut. gorell---------------- 142 Mari~ed to Miss Diemer ------------------ 147 Alluded to ------------------------- 58,93, 188



Page 695


INDEX.

695

Rogers, Major: Page. Sets out for Michilimackinac........---... 47 Report that he was attacked at month of Detroit river---.......--................. 227 Alluded to...........39, 40, 43, 44, 45, 46, 49, 52, 53 Rogers, Col. David: With about forty others killed..----......... 498 Rosco, Lient.: Killled at Niagara carrying place.------... 237 Rowe, Mr.: Alluded to--- -------..--------.......... 72 Royal American Regiment: List of men discharged and replaced-..-.. 175 Rum: G Ci' SiL 91 Ql Prohibited to be carried by the Indian traders..--- ----........---- --.......... - 128 All at Niagara taken to the Kings store -. 147 Reason for the prohibition of its sale to the Indian --. --.-------------------- 148 Major Basset complains of too much among the Indians-..-----.......-------- 296 Annual consumption of, at the upper posts 644 Amount remaining at Detroit....--..--.. 656 Rutherford, William: Letter to, from Col. Henry Bouquet...... 263 S. St Clair, Sir John: Alluded to.-..-- -..-- -------.123, 200, 203 St George. Mr.: Alluded to-----......-- ------------411, 552 St Joseph: Massacre at -----------.--------------- 217 Surprised and taken prisoners---..--...... 591 St Luc Lacorne, Mr.: Alluded to..............--- --............-- 303 St Martin, Adhemar: Letter from, to Lieut. Gov. Hamilton.... 319 Asks relief for destruction of goods-...... 319 St Marys: Barracks, provisions and ammunition at, destroyed by fire.....-----... ------ --- 177 Sandusky: Blockhouse finished.......-- --....... -- 122 False report that all white people were killed at ----------------.----------------- 186 Destroyed by the Indians-.--- ---------- 189 Sayer, Mr.: Alludedto........ -...............- -....... 525 Schank, Capt. John: Letter from: To Capt. Alex. Grant.-...----...--...555, 559 Gen. Frederick Haldimand...-378, 434, 450 Letter to, from Gen. Frederick Haldimand-.....---------...........---- --.430, 431 Arrives at Quebec. ---..--....----.---... - 396 Alluded to..398, 400, 404, 412, 433, 436, 452, 480, 583 Schaw, Mr.: Alluded to...--..................---------------- 638 Schieffelin, Lieut. Jacob: Memorial to Gen. Frederick Haldimand. 578 Escape from the rebels.-------.-----..... 569 Schlosser, Ensign:

Schlosser, Ensign: Page. Alluded to as drunk and disorderly........ 169 Taken prisoner at St Joseph...------..... 217 Delivered at Detroit by Indians--......... 219 Alluded to---...- ------...............105,106, 223 Schlosser, Capt.: Informed of complaints against his son... 147 Alluded to.---.--..--..----- ----. 125, 127, 139 Schlosser, J.: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet....... 159 Schomer, Peter: A diserter....---...................----.. -- 92 Scott, Capt.: Alluded to...............-.......----..--.- 573 Secretary of War: Letter from, to Gen. Gage-..--------.. --- 25 Letter to, from Gen. Amherst............. 25 Servos, Daniel: Letter from, to Col. Daniel Claus-- ---.. 617 Sharp, Gen.: Alluded to.............----------.......... 287 Shelby, Col. James: On the march to attack St. Joseph........ 467 Sheylock, Sergt.: Alluded to --....--...........------........ 72 Shippen, Edw'd: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet...--. 28 Shoemaker, Mr.: Alluded to --.------.------------295, 356, 361 Simmons, Henry: Alluded to ----.-----------------------642 Sinclair, Capt.: To succeed Capt. McDougall...........512, 571 Sinclair, Lieut Gov. Patrick: Letter from: To Lieut. Col. Mason Bolton.-----.... 529 Major Arent 8. De Peyster..-..... 499 Brig. Gen. H. Watson Powell.....631, 638, 639, 671 Senior Naval Officer.--..--.--....... 499 Alluded to.533, 535, 536, 546, 548, 557, 569, 570 580, 687,641 Singleton, Lieut.: Alluded to...---.....--..-------.. -------- 427 Small, Major: Arrival in New York from the Muskingham..-----..---.-------.--------------- ' 287 Alluded to --------..........--------------282, 289 Smallman, Major: Alluded to ------------------..------------- 35 Smith, Lieut. Col.: Alluded to.--..-----.--.------------------ 313 Smith, Col.: Commands the 4th battalion.............. 148 Smith, Pergt. William: Alluded to --............----.. -------...... 642 Spain: Declaration of war against ---................ 187 Declared war against the English......... 465 Spear, Mr.: Alluded to ---.............--.--........... 122 Speth, Lieut. Col.: Alluded to.---..-----..---.. --------..... 488

Complaint against from St Joseph........ Promises there shall be no further complaints against him..........---....---...

139

Speth, Brig. Gen.: 151 Letter to, from Gen. Frederick Haldimand

671



Page 696


696

INDEX.

Spicoinaker, Lieut.: Page. A lluded to................ 107 Stanwix, (Gon. John: Letter to, from Col. Henry Bouquet ---- 37 Succeeded by Col. Prevost ---------------- 132 Alluded to -------------- ---------------- 72, 75 Stedman, Mr.: Aliriced to ---------------------------- 364, 372 Stedman, John: - Alluded to. ---------------------424, 425 Stewart, Major: Letter to, from Col. Henry, l~ouquet----- 48 Alluded to--------------5 37, 38, 40 Stewart, Capt. John: Alluded to.------------------------ 203, 246, 283 Stephen, Col.: Letter to: From Gen. Jeffery Amherst.------------ 229 Henry Bouquet------------------- 264 Alluded to ------------- 228, 2.35, 23, 240, 243, 270 Steyner, Sergt.: At St. Joseph---------------------------- 139 To be relieved at St. Joseph and ordered to Fort Pitt ------------------------------ 164 Alluded to.----------------- ------- 152, 154, 173 Stevenson, Dr.: Alluded to.------------- 7----------------- 119 Stirling, James. French interpreter and merchant at Detroit.--------------------------------7-- 310 Alluded to ------------------------------- 311 S,toddard, - Alluded to-------------------------------- 57 Stone, Ladwick: Time expires nnd receives bounty------163 Sullivan, Gen.:.Alluded to.-------------------------------.521 Survey: Of the schooner Hope ordered_- -. _ 603 Surveyors: Report of, on the schooner Hope.---------- 603 Sutherland, A d0-serter.-------------------------------- 273 "iweanngs, John: Ti me ekpires'and receives bounty-----163 T. Tabe-ab, P. Antoine: Witness to deed for Mackinac island-_._'6:11 Taylor, Mr.: Alluded to.--____ý--------------- 360, 361, '362, 372 Traylor & Cox: Alluded to.------------------------------- 151 Taylor & Duflin: Letter from, to Col. Daniel Claus---------360 Tcmpler, Dudley: Letter from, to Gen. Frederick Haldimand' 316 Thomas, Joseph: A deserter reprieved. --------------------- 282 Pardoned.-------------------------------- 288 Thompson, Capt.: Alluded lo --------------------- 336, 361, 630, 666 Thompson, Capt. A.: Letter from, to Major Arent S. DePeyster- 598 Thompson &, McKeee Letter from, to Major Arent S. DePeyster. 658

Thomson, Arch'd & Co., Detroit:.Goods belonging to, at Carleton Island----- Todd, Mr.: Al~luded to.........................----- Todd, John: Letter from, to Gov. of Virginia.------ Towery, Alexander: Letter to, from Geo. Croghan..........-- Trading posts: List of, in the upper country..........--- Trofield, Lewis: A deserter.........................----- Treat, Capt. William: Letter to, from Geo. Croghan..........-- Troops: Disposition of, in North America.----- Tull, Corporal: Alluded to.........................------ Turnbull, Lieut.: Alluded to.........................----- Turnbul~l, Capt.: Alluded to -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - Twiss, Capt.: Letter to, from Capt, Robert Mathews Alluded to.-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Page. 515 3041 456 58 21 88 58 23 102 238 30.1 525 672

U.

Upper country: Transportation of goods to, in 1778 ---- Distribution of troops in the ------- Ainnual trade in the, amount to ~200,000 sterling..........................----- Indian trade in the-------------------- Farming established at, under direction of the British government---------------- Upper lakes: Detachemeut of 300 men sent to........-- Upper Posts: To be retaken nnder command of Major Gladwin------------------------------ Remain of ordnance and ordnance stores at Rebel designs against.-----.............-- Annual consumption of rum at.........--

339 479 508 509 543 2A 204 483 616 644

VT.

Valentine, John: To be appointed Adjutant to Royal Regiment of New York------------------- 427 Vandal, - A prisoner ----------------------600 Vandervelden, Mr.:I Minuded to.-------------------------- 50,830,155 Van Hambaok, Mr.: Alluded to-------------------------------- 60 Vanhuist, -Mr.: Alluded to ----------------------------- 155,170 Van Jugen, Lieut.: Alluded to.------------------------------- 238 Vattas, Capt. John: Letter from: To Gen. Thomas Gage------------------ 299 Gen. Frederick Haldimand ---302, 305, 312 Vdudreull, Pierre Francois: Capitulation at Montreal------------------ 29

so



Page 697


INDEX.

697

Venango: Page. Wilkins, Major: Page. Lose of post at..----------------- ---- 205 Sent to reinforce Lients. Campbell and Surprised and taken by Indians.--.-----.. 211 Fraser....---- -------- -------------- 237 Victor, Frederick: Reinforces Major Gladwin at Detroit--... 197 An act for the naturalization of--......... 137 Appointed Major at Detroit.---. ---....... 163 Vincennes: Alluded to.....------..------..... 209, 233, 245 Garrisoned by twenty-three rebels..------. 520 Wilkinson, Lieut.: A receptacle for the enemy-.. ---------- 628 Recommended as successor to Capt. Virginia: Thompson --------------------------- 666 The Ohio as the boundary disputed---... 257 Wilkinson, Major: Virginia, Gov. of: Given in orders as Major -.---.---------- 170 Letter to, from John Todd ----------- 456 Williams, Dr.: Viviat, Mr.: Lost on Lake Erie..------------------ 245 Alluded to-.-------.---------.---.823, 325, 330 Williams, Capt.: Taughn, Mr.: Alluded to-..- --- ----- -------- - 275 Alluded to......--------------54, 60, 64, 65, 66,144 Williams, Major: His detachment lost on Lake Erie -..... 245 W. Alluded to--..-----..------------------- 245 Waite, Capt.: Williams, Joseph: Alluded to.-------------------------- 51, 58 Letter from, to William Robertson.....-- 602 Walker, Isaac: Letter to, from William Robertson-....... 603 Letter from, to Thomas Bentley.-----..... 406 Williamhouse, Lieut: Walter, Michael: On his way to Detroit.----- ------------ 102 Time expires and receives bounty--.....- 163 Willis, Samuel: Walters, Major William: Barrack Master at Illinois- -------- - 320 Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet--... 30, 51, Willson, Mr.: 100, 105 Alluded to ----------- ----------------- 604 Letter to, from Col. Henry Bouquet...--.. 35, 66 Wilson, James: To send returns to Gen. Amherst-..-----.. 106 Alluded to.....-------.----.--------- 306 Alluded to....31, 32, 34, 37, 40, 46, 53, 57, 58, 67, 71, Wilson, John: 74, 77, 79, 83, 92, 97, 104, 120, 126, 129,138, 143, 151 Alluded to --------------- -------------- 599 Washington, Gen.: Wuyamoz, Lieut.: Reported defeated with a loss of 11,000 Alluded to _.--.-----------.------------ 125 rebels.------------------------------- 35 Y. Reported killed-..--------.. --------... --- 335 Young, Col.: Efforts to prevent reinforcement of...---. 498 Settlement of his accounts ----------- 69 Alluded to--....-------------------393,460, 625 Settles his accounts_..-------.------------. 84 Watsin, Lieut.: Alluded to --------------------------- 148 Under arrest.-------------------------. 246 Young, Paymaster: Weedon, Lieut.: Alluded to.---------.------------------ 108 Alluded to-....---.... ---------------------- 32 Yorke, Sir Joseph: White, Capt.: - Alluded to.------...-----------,--------155,170 Alluded to..--------.------------------- 55. White Plains: Zerbst, Anhalt: Reported loss of 1500 rebels near..---.... 667 Alluded to ------------------------------ 420 Wilkins, Major: Zwinglins, Lieut.: Letter from, to Col. Henry Bouquet--..... 166 Arrives at Fort Pitt.--..----------------- 69 88


End of Index. Continue to next section or 
End of text. Return to .

