Pennsylvania archives., ser.1 v.10 1783-1786. | HathiTrust Digital Library

Use of this online version is subject to all U.S. copyright laws. Please do not save or redistribute this file.
For questions or comments, contact HathiTrust.org at 



Full Bibliographic Information
Title
Pennsylvania archives., ser.1 v.10 1783-1786.
Published 
[S.l. :s.n.],1852-
Description 
v. :fronts., ill., plates, ports., maps, facsims., ;21 cm.
Rights 

Permanent URL 

Table of Contents















































































































































































































































Book Text
Front Cover
Page Scan 1
University of § Library F;146;.P591 1st SER. v.1017

inj
This page contains an image.
Page Scan 2
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page Scan 3
Blank page
Page Scan 4
ºn *** Anti-r E. "... - *- ºr ***
End of Front Cover. Continue to next section or 
Title Page
Page Scan 5
WNMSYWAMIM MRCHIVES SELECTED AND ARRANGED FROM ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS in the office of the SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH, CONFORMABLY TO ACTS of the GENERAL ASSEMBLY, FEBRUARY 15, 1851, & MARCH 1, 1852. By S A M U E L H A Z A R D. WOLUME X. PHILA D E L PHIA : PRINTED BY JOSEPH SEVERNS & CO.

1854.
Page Scan 6
Cº- "… ~ * * * º F } + \, 58 ; (, ; ; ; , | < * Sor. v. ſº "lº 3 - 25 L º-º-º: - -



End of Title Page. Continue to next section or 
Section 1
Page 1
P R E FA C E. With the close of the year 1783, upon which in this volume we have en- tered, will terminate the original limits assigned to the duties of the Editor by the act of 15th of February, 1851;-but inasmuch as the Colonial Records have been completed in 16 volumes, extending the date to 1790,—the legis- lature, at their last session, introduced into the “appropriation law”—the following section, authorizing the Secretary of the Commonwealth to continue the publication from 1783 to 1790—thus rendering the period embraced in both works the same. Section 67. “That the Secretary of the Commonwealth is hereby autho- rized and required to continue the printing, publication and distribution of the Pennsylvania Archives, from the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three, to the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety, in con- formity with the requirements of an act entitled “an act for providing for the publication of the Colonial Records and other original papers in the office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth;” approved the fifteenth day of February, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one, and the supple- ment thereto, except so far as issuing proposals for the publication of the same; Provided, That the cost for printing and publishing the same shall not exceed the price per volume contracted for the publication of the said Archives under the above recited act; and when so published, shall be distributed in the same manner, and to the same persons, as provided by the several acts relating to the distribution of said works.” Approved May 9, 1854.
Page 2
GC 2 - 38 - F } + \,, 58 } ("}{2i º \ , A Son . v. Ö tº 3 - 25 L
End of Section 1. Continue to next section or 
Section 2
Page 3
P. R. E. F. A. C. E. With the close of the year 1783, upon which in this volume we have en- tered, will terminate the original limits assigned to the duties of the Editor by the act of 15th of February, 1851;-but inasmuch as the Colonial Records have been completed in 16 volumes, extending the date to 1790,—the legis- lature, at their last session, introduced into the “appropriation law”—the following section, authorizing the Secretary of the Commonwealth to continue the publication from 1783 to 1790—thus rendering the period embraced in both works the same. - Section 67. “That the Secretary of the Commonwealth is hereby autho- rized and required to continue the printing, publication and distribution of the Pennsylvania Archives, from the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three, to the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety, in con- formity with the requirements of an act entitled “an act for providing for the publication of the Colonial Records and other original papers in the office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth;” approved the fifteenth day of February, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one, and the supple- ment thereto, except so far as issuing proposals for the publication of the same; Provided, That the cost for printing and publishing the same shall not exceed the price per volume contracted for the publication of the said Archives under the above recited act; and when so published, shall be distributed in the same manner, and to the same persons, as provided by the several acts relating to the distribution of said works.” Approved May 9, 1854.
Page 4
Blank page
End of Section 2. Continue to next section or 
Section 3
Page 5
AN ACT TO PREVENT AND STAY SUITS AGAINST INHABITANTS OF WYOMING DURING THE TIME THEREIN MENTIONED, 1783. SECT. I Whereas Commissioners, duly authorised and appointed agreeable to the ninth Article of the Confederation of the United States, to hear and determine the Controversy between the Common- wealth of Pennsylvania and the State of Connecticut, have adjudged and decreed, “That the Jurisdiction and Pre-emption of all the “Territory, lying within the Charter Boundary of Pennsylvania, “and claimed by the State of Connecticut, do of Right belong to “the State of Pennsylvania.” SECT. II. And Whereas this House, taking into Consideration the Situation of the present Settlers under the late Claim of the State of Connecticut, at that Part of Wyoming eastward and northward of Nescopeck Falls, on the East Branch of Susquehanna, have agreed to send Commissioners to make Enquiry into the Cases of the said Settlers, and to encourage as much as possible reasonable and friendly Compromises between the Parties claiming, and therefore it is highly improper that any Proceedings at Law should be had for the Recovery of any Lands or Tenements during the said Enquiry. SECT. III. Be it therefore enacted, and it is hereby enacted by the Representatives of the Freemen of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in General Assembly met, and by the Authority of same, That every Writ and Process whatever granted or issued, or which may hereafter be granted or issued, for any Owner or Owners, Claimant or Claim- ants, against any Person being now an Inhabitant on said Lands at Wyoming, in order to dispossess any of the said Inhabitants or Settlers of the Lands or Tenements in his, her or their Occupancy, shall be, and the same are hereby declared to be stayed; and on Motion, all further Proceedings thereon shall be quashed by the Court to which such Writ shall be returnable, until the Report of the said Commissioners shall be laid before this House, and Order shall be taken thereupon. SECT. IV. And be it further enacted by the Authority aforesaid, That this Act shall be and continue in Force until the End of the next Sitting of General Assembly, and no longer. Signed, by Order of the House, Frederick A. Muhlenberg, Speaker - Enacted into a law, at Philadelphia, on Thursday, the Thirteen Day of March, in the Year of our Lord One Thousand Seven Hun- dred Eighty and Three. PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly. Indorsed—March 13, 1783. - º
Page 6
6 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. John NICHOLsoN To Council, 1783. Compt. Generals Office, Philada. March 15th, 1783. Sir, 1 beg leave to request That an order be drawn upon the Treasurer in my favor for five hundred pound state money for paying depre- ciation Certificates agreeable to act of Assembly, the money rec'd. upon last order is entirely Expended. I am Sir, with very Great Respect, your Excellency's most Obed. Humble Servant. JNO. NICHOLSON. (public Service.) Directed, To His Excelly. John Dickinson Esq., President. Compt. Gen. Office. RETURN OF DEFICENCYs of CLOATHINGs &c., BELONGING TO THE HESSIAN TRoops, 1783. Return of Defficencys of Cloathing. &c, Necessary's Missing by Being Detained in Chester County, belonging to the Hessian Troops. Lancaster, March 15th, 1783. |Pensilva. Currency. 42 s. d.ſ. 6 s. 35 Large Regimental Blankets belonging to Prince Hereditary Regiment, @ pr. Blanket. - - - - - - 1|10| ||52|10 9 Shirts of the yagers, (3) pr. Shirt. - 12 5| 8 1 Pair Stocking, (a). . . . . - 8 8 7 Packs from Europe containing. 7 Dozen mettle Buttons (a) pr. Doz. - 4 1| 8 1 Piece of Nan King - - 115|| 6 Shirts (a) pr. Shirt. . 15 4|10 5} Yard Fustian (a) pr. yard. 3| 6 || |19|| 3 5 Yard Drilling (a) do . . 4 1 3} Yard blew Cloath do . - 1|10 5| 5 5 Yard red Shallong % do . . 7| 6 || 1 |17| 6 5 Silck Hanckerchiffts (a) pr. Hande- kerchiffts. 15 315 1 Cap (a) - - 8 9 Yard Linen (a) pr. yard . 6 214 Total, 81|17| 9 Lewis Flaehshaar, Pay Quart. Mr. Major of Regt. de Bose. Wm. Armstrong Capt. 64th & D. Q. M. Gen.
Page 7
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 7 DEFICIENCIES IN THE BRITISH AND GERMAN CLOATHING. Total Amount of Deficiencies in the British & German Cloathing, with all Extraordinary Charges incurred by the Stopping of it in Chester County. - Philadelphia, 19th March, 1783. F Amount of Deficiencies in ye British Cloathing, &c., | as tº Return, - 4:2539 1j 5 Ditto, Hessian Cloathing, do., 81,17. 9 Ditto, Anspach Ditto, do., 2906 5.11 Extra Charges paid for Waggons when prevented receiving the Cloathing, . - - 96 Expences of French Guards fº Wilmington to Phila- delphia & Lancaster, - - - 31|17| 6 Ditto for four Expresses from do. to do., 21 Capt. Armstrong's Expences from 1st Jan., the day the Cloathing was stopped, to 11th March, the 245 day he received what was not embezzled, Qr. Mr. Titt, his assistant, from ditto to ditto, 12210 Qr. Mr. Flackarsha of the Hessians, from do. to do., 61 5 Qr. Mr. Daig of the Anspachs from do. to do., 61 5. Armstrong was obliged to draw for on New York 3018, 7 Exchange at £6 tº Cent on £515, 10, which Capt. to pay the above Expences, Amount of Cap. Armstrong's Charges. £6197, 1, 2 Charges given into Capt. Armstrong by Wm. Davis & Wm. Sharpley, Conductors of Waggons, for 102 they, with Twenty-three Waggons were detained by the Seizers, - - - * Total. 366299. 1' 2 Errors Excepted. WM. ARMSTRONG, Cap. 64th H. D., Q. M. Gen. PRES. To DELEGATES OF CONGRESS, 1783. March 19, 1783. Gentlemen, - The Council having observed that by the fourth of the provisional articles agreed upon by the Commissioners of the United States and of his Britannic Majesty, it is declared “that Creditors on either side shall meet with no lawful Impediment to the Recovery of the full Value in Sterling Money, of all bona fide debts heretofore con- tracted,” are unanimously of opinion that these Expressions have an Extent & force, that unless properly regulated, may be attended by Consequences inconsistent with Justice, Humanity or Equity. There may be no particular Hardship in calling upon British
Page 8
8 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. Debtors for payment, that Kingdom not having been the seat of War. The Case is totally different with Respect to Citizens of these states who are Debtors. It is needless to repeat to Gentlemen of your Information the various and severe Calamities with which this Country has been overwhelmed in the Course of the unprovoked War. You are sensible not only how general and grievous these afflictions have been, but that the Effects must continue in very con- siderable operation for some time. We therefore desire that You will use your best Exertions in Congress to have Instructions immediately sent to our Commissioners, requiring them to take Care that in the definitive Treaty of Peace, or by some Convention with Great Britain, citizens of the United States may be allowed a reasonable Time for the payment of their Debts to British Creditors. I am, Gentlemen, Your very humble servt., JOHN DICKINSON. The Delegates of Pennsylvania, in Congress. RESOLUTION OF ASSEMBLY. BoundARY LINE, 1783. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Saturday, March 22, 1783, A. M. The Report of the Committee on the Message from the Supreme Executive Council, relative to the line run between this Common- wealth and the State of Virginia, read March 5, was read the second time, and adopted, as follows, (viz.) Your committee who were directed to confer with the Supreme Executive Council on the report of the Commissioners for running the line between this State and that of Virginia, having performed that duty, beg leave to report, - That taking into consideration the resolve of this House, dated March 2, 1782, It appears to have been the opinion of the General Assembly of this State that a temporary line, which might be run at a moderate expence, would answer the present purposes, and serve as a boundary to the end of the War, or until the States might be in more tranquillity, and better able to encounter the expence that would attend the final settlement thereof. And we find that the General Assembly of the State of Virginia, by their resolve, dated the first day of June last, have agreed thereto. We also find that in pursuance of said resolves, and in conjunction with the State of Virginia, Council have caused the said line to be run and marked agreeably to the plan laid before the House. Resolved, that this House do approve the said report, and con- firm the said line run by Messieurs Nevil and McClean, as the boundary line between this State and that of Virginia, until the final settlement thereof be obtained. That the Supreme Executive Council of this State communicate
Page 9
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 9 the resolution of this House to the Legislature of Virginia, as soon as conveniently may be, and in the mean time issue their proclama- tion signifying the same; and requiring the inhabitants included within said boundary to pay due obedience unto the Laws of this State. Extract from the Minutes. PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly. Indorsed, 1788, March 22d. Resolution of the General Assembly; their approbation of the line lately run between this State and Virginia. Read in Council the 26th, and Proclamation issued for quieting the minds af the Inhabitants.” REPORT OF A CoMMITTEE of Assembly, 1783. Your Committee appointed on the Message of the Supreme ex- ecutive Council, with the report of the proceedings of the Comp- troller General, concerning the settlement of the Accounts of Timothy Matlack, Esq., Secretary to said Council, Beg leave to report That they have taken into consideration the proceedings of the Comptroller General, by which it appears the said Secretary has charged the State with a very considerable sum, and which the said Comptroller declares is altogether inadmissable and prays to be in- structed by the Honorable the Council or Assembly, it is therefore the opinion of your Committee that the most eligable mode of bring- ing this business to a final settlement, is for the Comptroller Gene- rai to prosecute the said Timothy Matlack, Esq., in the Supreme Court, in Order to try the contested points by a Jury, & therefore recommend the following resolution: Resolved, that the Comptroller General of this State proceed to the tryal of the contested points, in the Accounts of Timothy Matlačk, Esq. Secretary to the Supreme executive Council, by a Jury in the Supreme Court, and that he be hereby authorized to employ Counsel for that purpose. Indorsed, Read 1 time, Mar. 22, 1783, and on motion, and by special order read 2 times, and adopted.t SEc'y of Foreign AFFAIRs To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1783. (Circular) Office for foreign affairs, Philadelphia, 24th March, 1783. Sir, I have the honor to enclose an abstract of the preliminary Arti- cles for a general peace, Signed the 20th of January, 1783. They were brought by a vessel that arrived last night from Cadiz, dis- patched by Count d' Estaing to recall the cruizers and privateers of * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 540. + See Col. Rec., Vol. XIII., p. 588, 540. John Armstrong Jr., was ap- pointed Secy., March 25. 1 * -**-
Page 10
10 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. his most Christian Majesty and his Subjects. Tho' not official, they leave no room to doubt this happy event on which I sincerely con- gratulate Your Excellency. When the wisdom of the United States shall have re-established their credit & strengthened their bond of Union, which will doubtless be the first work of peace, we shall have every reason to hope that this will be a happy & a flourishing Country. I have the honor to be, Sir, With great respect, Your Excellency's Most obedient & most humble servant, ROB. R. LIVINGSTON. Directed, His Excellency, President Dickinson. PRELIMINARIES OF PEACE, 1783. Philadelphia, March 24th, 1783. His Most Christian Majesty's Cutter the Triumph, commanded by the Chevalier DUQUESNE, arrived this Morning, in 36 days from Cadiz. By her we have the following very agreeable and important Intelligence. The Principal Articles of the Preliminaries of the Peace of the 20th of January, 1783. France to retain Tobago and Senegal. France to restore to Great Britain Grenada, St. Vincents, Domi- nique and St. Christophers. St. Eustatia, Demerara, Berbice, and Issequibo shall be restored to the Dutch. Great Britain to restore to France, Goree, St. Lucia, St. Pierre, and Miquelon, The fishery of France and England on the coast of Newfoundland to remain on the same footing on which they were left by the treaty of 1763, except that part of the coast from Cape Bonavista to Cape St. John's, which shall belong to the English. France to be re-established in the East Indies, as well in Bengal as on the east and west coast of the Peninsula, as regulated by the treaty of 1763. The articles of the preceding treaties, concerning the demolition of Dunkirk, to be suppressed. Spain to retain Minorca and west Florida. Great Britain cedes East Florida to Spain. An agreement is to be entered into between Spain and Great Britain, about the cutting of wood in the bay of Honduras. Great Britain to retain the Dutch settlement of Negapatam in the East Indies. Great Britain to restore Trinqemale to the Dutch, if not re-taken. St. Eustatia, Demarara and Iffequibo, to be restored by the French to the united provinces. - Great Britain acknowledges the sovereignty and independence of the thirteen united states of America. The limits of the united states to be as agreed upon in the provis- ional articles between them and Great Britain, except that they shall
Page 11
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 11 not extend further down the river Mississippi than the 32d degree of north latitude, from whence a line is to be drawn to the head of the river St. Mary, and along the middle of that river to its mouth. Copy of the heads of the preliminaries of peace, signed the 20th of January, and transmitted by express on the 22d by the marquis de Caffries. (Signed,) Cadiz, February 11, 1783. ESTAING. We Caesar Anne de la Luzerne, Chevalier of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, Marechal des Camps and Armies of the King, Minister Plenipotentiary of His Most Christain Majesty to the United States of North America, &c. Make known to all those whom it may concern, that the Chevalier Duquesne, lieutenant commanding his Majesty's cutter the Triumph, who arrived this day at this port, has communicated to us Orders, in form of a Passport, which he received from Count d'Estaing, Vice- Admiral of France; of which the following is a Copy. “CHARLES HENRY COUNT D’ESTAING, Vice Admiral of France, Lieutenant-General of his Majesty's Forces, Knight of his Orders, &c. It is ordered, that monsieur the chevalier Duquesne, lieutenant commanding his majesty's cutter, Triumph, do sail as soon as possible from the bay of Cadiz, and inform all vessels that he may meet of the happy re-union of the belligerent powers. It is ordered, in the name of his majesty, and by me, to all ships of the line, frigates, and other vessels belonging to his majesty, that he may meet, that they abstain from all hostilities against the ships of war and merchant vessels of his Britannic majesty, but, on the contrary, that they give them all necessary aid and succour, and every testimony of a union re-established under the most happy auspices, by the prelimi- naries which were signed the 20th of this month, of Jan. in the present year, it is ordered also, in his majesty's name, that all vessels armed for war and on a cruise, do return into port. After having given them a copy of this order, he shall take their names, likewise the date of the day that he shall have furnished it, and shall notify to them that they shall answer personally for every deed which they may commit contrary thereto. Monsieur the chevalier Duquesne, in virtue of the present order, which serves him for a passport, shall carry a flag of truce, he shall particularly cruize in those latitudes where he presumes he may meet the greatest number of French privateers, and shall endeavour to overtake them. If the events of the sea shall conduct him to any of the French colonies, or upon the coasts of the united states of America, he shall communicate the present orders, to the governor of the place, and to the armed vessels of the different nations that may be then there, he will likewise shew the present passport to all vessels of war belonging to his Britannic majesty with whom he shall speak, and give them a copy signed by him, if they should desire it. He shall likewise pay them every respect, which the first
Page 12
12 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. moments of a re-union demands; the object of his mission, (for the good of humanity, and as much as is in my power) being to hasten its happy effects. Cadiz, the 10th February, 1783. Signed, D'ESTAING. By Order, MARTIN.” - And desiring to give all necessary Authenticity and Notoriety to these orders, We certify by these Presents, that the above is a true Copy. We likewise certify, that M. le Chevalier DuQuesne has informed us, that M. le Comte d'Estaing directed him to desire all vessels that he should find ready to sail in the different ports where he should have occasion to go, to delay their departure from said ports, until the arrival of official accounts of the signing the Preliminaries, the news of which cannot fail to arrive soon on this continent. Given at Philadelphia, in our Hotel, this 24th of March, 1783. LE CHEWALIER DE LA LUZERNE.* * CAPT. W.M. ARMSTRONG TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Sir, Inclosed I send you a List of the Waggoners' Names who were stopped in Chester County, when on their way with British Cloath- ing from Wilmington to Lancaster. As Sheriff Gardner says Four of the Waggons were not stopped along with the other thirty-four, he will now be able to ascertain - their names; But as it certainly was owing to the others being stopped that they did not proceed to Lancaster, I must expect that he will find them out, & see that they do proceed accordingly, where a receipt will be given for every article delivered, & the amount deducted from the return of Deficiencies that I gave in on the 19* Instant; But as there is now a prospect that our Prisoners will soon be sent to New York, it will be necessary to Limit the time of Delivery to a short period. - As I have Business of Consequence which obliges me to return to New York & prevents my being able to wait for the Completion of this Business, I am to request your Excellency's Answer to my requisitions of the 19th Instant, in order that I may lay it before His Excellency S. Guy Carleton. If thought necessary, I don't suppose there will be any Objections made to my returning here some time hence to finish it. With the highest respect, I have the Honor to be your Excellency's Most Obed Humble Serv', Wm ARMSTRONG, Cap 64th & D. Q. M. Gen. Philadelphia, 25th March, 1783. The Honorable President Dickinson. * From a hand bill printed by David C. Claypoole in Market street.
Page 13
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 13 Philadelphia, 25th March, 1783. List of the Waggoners' Names who did not arrive at Lancaster with the British Cloathing with which they were loaded at Wil- mington, from the Flag of Truce Ship Amazon, John Floyd, Master. Thomas Tally, Elisha Baldwin, Phillip Jackson, Wm. Sharpely, Jasper Basson, Wm. Tally, Wm. McClintock, Wm. Reid, Wm. Long, David Cochran, Isaac Johnson, Jas. Adams, Thos. Bird, Andw. Gibson, Wm. Elliott, Thos. Gibson, Jno. Frame, James Robertson, Geo. Waddle, Joseph Boggs, Isaac Miller, John Price, Thomas Cloud, Charles Springer, Wm. Cloud, Solomon Price, John Forward, John Miller, Thos. Bird, Maj' Dan Adams, drove by a Negro. Elisha Tally, John Crosby, George Davis, Andw. Reed, Joseph Loyd, Jeremiah Wilson, John Booth, Adam Glendinning. Total, 38—W- ARMSTRONG, Capt. 64*. SIR GUY CARLETON TO R. R. LIVINGSTON, Esq., 1783. New York, March 26th, 1783. Sir, I have rec'd your letter of the 24th Inst. enclosing a resolution of Congress of ye same date taken in consequence of the arrival of the Cutter Triumphe, commanded by Lieut. Du Quesne, with orders of the 10th of Feb'y last, given at Cadiz, by Vice Admiral D'Estaing for him to put to sea & cruise on such stations as he shall judge most likely to meet with ships of his nation, & inform them of the happy reaonciliation of the belligerent powers, & to order all their ships of war to cease hostilities against those of Great Britain, the preliminary articles of a general peace being signed the 20th of Jan'y, you thereupon are pleased to express your expectation that I would think the information thus conveyed “sufficiently authentic “to justify my taking immediate measures to stop the further effusion of blood.” For my own part I have hitherto abstained from all hostilities, & this conduct I mean to continue, so far as our own security would permit, but how great soever my desire is to put an entire stop to the calamities of war & whatever respect this information may
Page 14
14 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. deserve, yet I do not find myself thereby justified in recommending measures which might give facility to the fleets & armies menacing any part of the King's possessions, to carry their hostilities into execution. To adopt a measure of this importance it is necessary I should receive orders from home, which I may reasonably expect every hour, as a cruizer sent out on other purposes is already arrived at Philadelphia, & I assure Sir, I only wait the official certainty of this great Event, to assume the language and the spirit too, of the most perfect conciliation & peace. I perceive Sir, by the resolution enclosed in your letter, that Congress has thought fit to consider this information as authentic & thereupon has taken one considerable Step towards carrying the terms of peace into immediate execution. Another not less important I presume has been taken, or is taking. With the cessation of hostilities I perceive, is connected in the 7th Article of the provi- sional treaty an engagement that “All prisoners on both sides shall be set at liberty,” of this event therefore I hope likewise speedily to receive the very necessary & welcome notice, as I shall find the highest satisfaction in seeing released on all sides, men, upon whom the evils & calamities of war, have more peculiarly fallen. I am Sir your most obt. & most hum. servant, GUY CARLETON. Copy. Directed, Robert R. Livingston, Esqr. CAPT. THos. Robinson To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Wyoming, 26th March, 1783. Sir, - Your Excellencies Orders, and Instructions to me of the fourth Instant I Received on 13th But Such was the State of the Weather, the Roads and the Freshes in the Creeks and Rivers as Rendred it Impracticable for me to march before the 19th and on the 23d I Arived here, with much difficulty, (where I met Captain Philip Shrawder,) I Imediatly Took posession of the garrison with Every thing belonging thereunto. I Also met at the same place Capt. Peter Sumers, Late of the 4 Pennsa Regt., who had been sent here to Collect and Carry away the Remainder of the (Continantal) Military and other stores from this post. As I Had Carried no military stores to this post I therefore Judged it Improper to Let the garrison be Intirely destitute of Amunition, I therefore retained some part of the Military stores (for which I gave Captain Sumers a Recept,) and herein Inclose your Excellencie a Return of the same.
End of Section 3. Continue to next section or 
Section 4
Page 15
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 15 Previous to my arrival here the Indians had Either Killed or Captured two men at some Distance from this place, I Have also received Authantick Inteligence of one man being Captured in Buffalo and of parties being about That neighbournood, and Muncy. I also beg leave to assure your Excellencie that a strict Attention and Regard shall be paid to every part of your Instructions to me. I am Sir with Every sentiment of Esteem & Respect * your Excellencies most obedt. Humble servant. THOS, ROBINSON, Capt'n of P. Rangers. Return of Continantel Militia Stores Retained by Captain Thomas Robinson of the Pennsylvania Rangers, For the use of the Gar- rison at Wyoming, 26 March, 1783. No. Boxes, - No. Rounds. 4 Rounds Shot, . . . 21 7 Do., . . . . 11 5 Cannister, . . . . 31 4 Do. * - - - - 18 2 Grape, . . . . . 24 3 Do., . . . . . . 18 7 Swivel Case, . . . 40 6 Round swivel, . . 106 9 Swivel Case, . . . 38 12 Case . . . . . . 7 Total, 314 6 papers Tubes, 8 lbs. Lead, 3 pairs Drag Ropes, 2 lbs. powder, 10 Sticks port fires, 18 Bayonets, 1 Dark Lantron, 5 Old Shovels, 8 Sponges, 1 Old Pine Chest & Desk, 4 Scoops, a Quantity of Rotton Slow- 6 Worms, match not fit for use. 4 Oil Cloths, Directed, His Excellencie, John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the Supreame Executive Council of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. Per Capt. Peter Sumers.
Page 16
16 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. w John NICHOLSON TO PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Comptr. General's Office, Philada., March 26th, 1783. Sir Permit me to request that an Order may be drawn upon the Treasurer in my favor for the sum of fifteen pounds specie for paying sundry Contingent expenses of this office for which sum I will account. I have the Honour to be, with respect your Excell'y most obedt. servant, JNO. NICHOLSON. Directed, • His Excellency, The President of Penna. JoHN NICHOLSON TO PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Comptr. General's office, Si Philada., March 26th, 1783. Ir, a f beg leave to request that an Order may be drawn in my favor for the further sum of five hundred pounds state money for paying depreciation Certificates agreeable to directions of Assembly. The sum last rec'd is expended. I have the honor to be with respect your Excellency's most Obedt. very Humble servant, JNO. NICHOLSON.” Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., President of Penna. ANSWERS OF HON. GEO. BRYAN, 1783. The answer of George Bryan, fourth Justice of the Supreme Court of Pennsilvania, to certain questions proposed by his Excel- lency the president & the honorable the Council. March, 1783. First, Whether Commissions of oyer & terminer, as they have been usually issued in this State since the revolution, in general; and * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 541. º º

Page 17
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 17 particularly whether a Commission of oyer & terminer lately issued for Westmoreland & Washington Counties, are agreeable to the Con- stitution & laws of this State. Answer, The Act of Assembly of 1722, for establishing Courts of Jus- tice, appoints, that the Justices of the Supreme Court, who then held at the pleasure of the governor, should be justices of oyer & terminer. This Law especially, if taken into consideration with the Act of 1718, for the advancement of Justice, doth not make the Judges the only Commissioners of Oyer & Terminer in capital cases. And if such construction might have been taken on the passing, yet long contrary usage & acting seems to have decided the point. The standing Judges at Westminster are not the only Commis- sioners of oyer & terminer in England, & even since the act of Wil- liam the 3", by which independent Commissions & salaries were established for them, no such idea has been entertained. Nothing has passed in Pennsilvania, as I know of, at or since the American revolution to introduce any alteration upon this point. It may, perhaps be suggested, that this authority in the Council, may be abused, as it enables that board to select Judges in a particular case, to hear & try with design to prevent a fair & equal hearing. But such doings ought not to be presumed. They would be too odious. I am of opinion, that there may be cases of atrocious offence in which such Commissions would not only be legal, but proper. As to the Commission issued lately to Westmoreland and Washington Counties, with Blanks in it for the names of the accused; I should think it void for that circumstance. But the uncertain description of these persons leaves the matter without all doubt. Such a writing could give no authority whatever to the Commissioners. The whole proceedings under it must be null, in my opinion. Second, Whether the modes directed by the Acts of Assembly for the appointment of the Justices of the peace by the Council, without Elections by the people, are warranted by the Constitution. - Answer, By the 30th section of the Constitution, if the freeholders of any district, incline to have a justice of the peace appointed in such district in a manner different from the mode therein directed, the Legislature may gratify them; but that the Assembly upon the neglect or refusal of the freeholders to choose, may authorize the executive branch to appoint is not clear to me. Perhaps the Council upon such neglect might Commission Justices of the peace, till the proper Electors resume their rights under the general power given in the 20 Section to supply all vacancies. However, this is not a case like that of vacancies in the places of Sheriffs & Coroners, offi- cers, essentially necessary to the compleat organization of justice & º
Page 18
18 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. which Council must immmediately fill; whereas the neglect of two or three districts in a County to exercise their priviledge of electing Justices of the peace, would not be attended with any great incon- veniency. Upon starting this question another idea has arisen. It has been asked whether the authority by the ninth Section given to the leg- islature, to incorporate Towns, Burroughs, Cities & Counties, in- cludes, not that of constituting Mayors, Aldermen & Burgesses of a different appointment from the Constitution, with the powers & jurisdiction of a justice of the peace?—I think not, unless the major number of the freeholders be desirous of it; and this be pro- perly manifested to the Legislature. For such communities were at common Law long before the institution of Justice of the peace, who came in by statute. Many corporations of this kind subsist in England, which have no such Magistracy in them, under their Char- ters. The City of Westminster* for instance, is governed by a high Steward & Burgesses, who nominate a bailliff, which acts as a Sher- rif. The justices for the Liberty of Westminster, who are specially commissioned by the Crown, have the care of the peace, & hold a quarterly sessions to hear and try offenders. Yet the Corporation of this City holds Courts of common pleas and a court similar to the Courts Leet, which determines upon nuisances & other offences. “By Holt chief justice, tho' a man be a mayor, it doth not follow, “that he is a justice of the peace; for that must be a special grant in the Charter.” Raymond 1830. The Legislature may therefore erect Corporations of Towns, without thereby constituting Justices of the peace within such Communities, & the Constitution upon both these heads is very consistent, especially, as the very mode of the 30 Section may be established in such Towns. But if any variation be designed, it should seem, that the freeholders be called together, & that they request it in a special manner pointing out the perman- ancy & manner of choice. If the authority to incorporate Cities, Towns & Counties could be supposed necessarily to include a right to give the jurisdiction of a Justice of the peace to a Mayor, Alderman or Burgess, the . 30th Section of the Constitution might be easily evaded, altogether by incorporating every County for certain purposes. Nay! the priviledge of electing the Sherriff by the freemen might be wrested out of their hands by a like artifice. For a Bailliff might be con- stituted to do the duties of the Sherriff within such County, Town or City. And the argument would be strengthened by this circum- stance, that Bayliffs of Corporations are as early as the introduction of municipal governments borrowed from France & Italy soon after the Conquest. The Communities of Cities were an assuagement to the rigor of the feodal Government, whereby the inhabitants of Towns were protected & supported in their independency of the neighbour- * See the case of New Sarum Strange, 1154.
Page 19
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 19 ing Lords, & therefore such priviledges were once of great conse- quence to the traders and artisans. Hence they were eagerly sought for in England. It is remarkable that the old burroughs are all within the Lands of royal demesne, & therefore it must be inferred that the King alone favoured these franchises. The great freeholders without doubt, were anxious to hold the people down under the servile condition of Willeinage; a species of Slavery, which yet ob- tains in Russia, Poland & divers other Countries. How far the authority of the Assembly, in constituting Magis- trates, with jurisdiction equal to Justices of the peace, has been ex- ercised constitutionally in reviving the Charters of Chester and Lancaster, or in framing a municipal police for the Town of Carlile, I am not fully informed. But if the consent of the major part of the freeholders in these Burroughs, has not been expressed so as to justify the innovations made by giving power to the freemen an- nually to choose justices of the peace; I can hardly think the Bur- gesses under these incorporating Acts, however, improved the man- ner of doing the business may be, possess any more jurisdiction than that of conservators of the peace. These Magistrates will do well to enquire into this. There was an Act of Assembly passed in 1777, authorising the Council to appoint Judges of the City Court. As these magistrates exercise power to hear & determine concerning the peace the Council has heretofore carefully Commissioned Justices of the peace to sit there. - But as to the Law of 31st August, 1778, whereby the Council was directed to appoint justices of the peace upon the neglect of the freeholders to elect, I do not think it will warrant the Council to proceed accordingly. The Acts of Assembly passed in 1777, I shall give like answer to. These last I always considered as temporary. No unconstitutional use, as I remember, was made of them. Northern Liberties, 24th March, 1783. w GEO. BRYAN.” ANswers of C. J. McKEAN, 1783. Queries proposed to Honourable the Judges of the Supreme Court and to which, Council request that they will be pleased to give answers. 1. Whether Commissions of Oyer and Terminer, as they have been usually issued in this State since the Revolution, in general, and particularly whether a Commission of Oyer and Terminer lately issued for Westmoreland and Washington Counties, and the pro- gº thereon, are agreeable to the Constitution and Laws of this tate * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 543.
Page 20
20 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783, 2. Whether the modes directed by Acts of Assembly for the appointment of Justices of the peace by the Council, without Elec- tions of the People, are warranted by the Constitution ? Council Chamber, Philadelphia, March 20th, 1783. Answers. 1. It rather appears to us, that Commissions of Oyer dº Terminer as they have been usually issued in this State since the Revolution, if they are all conformable to the precedent shown to us are warranted by the Constitution and Laws of this State. These commissions are by the common law, and are not restrained by any Statute, Act of Assembly or the Constitution, and have the sanction of long and constant usage prior to the Revolution. But we humbly conceive, they should be granted with great caution, and only upon very urgent occasions, when the offences are of a very heinous nature and require immediate punishment; and after they are executed, they, together with the proceedings thereon, ought to be returned into the Supreme Court. Special commissions, granted on the complaint of particular persons, are prohibited by divers statutes and void. - The commission lately issued for Westmoreland and Washington Counties and sent to us, in which the names of the persons to be tried were not inserted by the Council, but by another hand after it had passed the seal, &c., and after it arrived in those counties, and in which one of the offences is insufficiently described, is in our opinion bad. A Warrant for felony, signed and sealed by a Justice of the peace, having a blank for the names of the party to be arres- ted and afterwards filled up by another person, has been adjudged void in law. 2. We are of Opinion, that no appointment of a Justice of the peace for any city or county can be valid, unless he has been pre- viously elected by a majority of the freeholders of some ward, town- ship or district, or unless this mode is desired by a majority of the freeholders to be altered, before an Act of Assembly is made for the purpose. - TBO. M'KEAN*. Philadelphia, March 27th 1783. Indorsed, From Judges, March 28th, 1783, Answers of the Hon. Chief Justice Thos. M*Kean & George Bryan, Esquires, to certain ques- tions put to them, upon the subject of Wm. Hank's trial & convic- tion, and the laws respecting Justices of the peace. Read in Council the 28th of March. Entered. (does not appear to be.) * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 548.
Page 21
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 21 * ; RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1783. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly. Thursday, March 11, 1783, A. M. The Petition of Divers Owners of Land within the bounds of the settlement at Wyoming claiming under Pennsylvania, read March 8th was read the second Time. Whereupon Ordered, That the Commissioners, appointed Feb'y 25th, to fulfill the Duties enjoin'd in the report of the Committee adopted Feb'y 20th, respecting the settlers at Wioming, attend at Wioming on that service on the fifteenth Day of April next. Ordered, That the Surveyor General or a Deputy under him be Directed to attend the Commissioners with the Necessary Papers on the Day above Mentioned. Ordered, That the foregoing resolutions be Published in the News Papers. Extract from the Minutes, - sign'd PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly. A True Copy. Certified this 5th Day of April, 1783. JNo. LUKENs, S. G., REAR ADMIRAL DIGBY TO R. R. LIVINGSTON, 1783. New York, 27th March, 1783. Sir, I have received your letter enclosing me the resolve of Congress with a copy of a letter to his Excellency Sir Guy Carleton, but as I have as yet received no Official accounts from England, I must wait till you on your side relieve our Prisoners before I give that general relief to yours I so much wish. There can be no reason for detaining our prisoners one moment, as Congress must suppose the peace signed—I shall take every pre- caution in my power consistent with my duty to stop any further mischief upon the Seas, But should recommend the preventing any Wessels sailing as I have not yet received sufficient authority to ena- ble me to withdraw my Cruizers. I am, Sir, Your very Obedient Humble Servant. ROB. DIGBY. Directed, - To Robert Livingston, Esqr., &c. &c. Vol. X. —2
Page 22
22 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783 ** LT. JoHN CUMMINGs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Hanna's Town, March 29th, 1783. Sir, I had the honour of receiving your Excellency's Instructions of the 11th of December last in pursuance of which I inclose a Return of the state of the Company for this Present Month. I have not had it in my Power to send any Earlier. I could wish to have had your Excellency's Instructions in what manner to have made these Reports, as I may perhaps be deficient in matter of form. That part of the Company which is now present were on furlow the Months of January and February last on account of the scarcity of Provisions, &c. The Savages had already began their cruel Incur- sions on the Frontiers; last Week they killed two and took two prisoners about ten Miles from this Place near Brushy Run. I could not learn what number there was of the Enemy. I only hear of four that were discovered. They were so bold as to Endeavour to break open the House, but were bravely repulsed by one Man and one Woman who were within, but without any arms or weapons of Defence. One of the Indians attempted to push his Gun in at the Door, which those on the inside of the Room seized and broke, upon which the Indians left them. The Inhabitants of the Fron- tiers seem more discouraged this Spring than they have been, having flattered themselves with the most sanguine hopes of peace, which hopes they now think are Frustrated. I have the honor to be Your Excellency's most Obedient and very humble Servant, JOHN CUMMINS, Lieut. Westmoreland Rangers. - A Return of Captain Thomas Stokely's Company of Rangers for Westmoreland County for the Month of March, A. D., 1783. Captain on Parole. Lieutenant Present. Ensign Present. Present fit for Duty, - 15 Prisoners of War, - 15 Descrted, - - - 11 Total, 41 JOHN CUMMINS, Lieut. Westmorel'd Rangers. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the Supreme Executive Council, Pennsylvania -
Page 23
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 23 CAPT. PHILIP ShrAwDER TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Wyoming, March 29, 1783. Sir, In Obedience to your Excellency's Orders I took Possession of this Fort the 21st inst. and Captn. Robinson arrived the 24th. From Captn. Summers who had been sent here by Mr. Hodgden for the military stores belonging to the United States we received some necessary Ammunition for the Artillery at this Post hoping to meet with your Excellency's Approbation as the Ordnance otherwise would have been entirely useless. Powder, Lead and Flints for Rifles and Muskets we stand very much in Need, neither is there any at Northumberland. The Conduct and Behaviour of the Inhabitants resembles that of a conquered Nation very much. They had several Meetings concerning their public affairs this Week, Keeping the Result thereof a secret. Yesterday Morning they sent one Mr. Harvey to Connecticut to a Recording Office for Copies of the Names of the first settlers on Susquahannah and when they took Possession of the Land. By another Gentleman I was informed they had wrote to the state of Connecticut to bring on another Trial. Last Tuesday they held Court but adjourned again the same Day. As the Law of Pennsylvania is not established yet and that of Connecticut abolished, the Body of the People a Concourse from different states among whom there is a Number of the bad Kind, who by taking advantage of the Times, would be willing to defraud the better sort; I would therefore entreat your Excellency and the Hon’ble Council for Instructions how to conduct in Case People come of their own accord or are brought before. I would further beg your Excellency's Orders, what to do when some of the Penn- sylvania Claimants should come up to plant a little summer Grain as those new acquired People say, they will not suffer the Penns'a Landholders to plant any Thing, neither will they permit some of those Connecticut Pennsylvanians to raise any Grain on the Ground, who had done so last year under Connecticut Claim. Mr. Gore of this Place, who had been sent some time ago to the Assembly of the state of New York with a Petition for a Grant of Land thirty Miles Square at Aghguague on this Side of the Lake near the Head of the River Susquahannah, returned last Night and brought the News that the Petition of the Wyoming Settlers had been granted and that he was to go up & chuse the Place. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect your Excellency's Most obedient and most humble servant, PHILIP SHRAWDER. . . Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, President, Philadelphia.
End of Section 4. Continue to next section or 
Section 5
Page 24
24 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. -> CAP. SHRAwDER To John WAN CAMPEN, 1783. Wyoming, 30 March, 1783. (Copy.) At and since my arrival at this Place the Inhabitants are ex- ceeding reserved and to judge by appearances the generality of them does not like the Pennsylvanians to an Excess—last Monday they had a Town meeting to sound their Purses whether they can muster as much as would pay for a Tryal, but not coming to a determination they adjourned till Wednesday for it seems some is for Pennsylvania & others not—on Tuesday they had Court, as far as I could hear nothing was done at that so they adjourned again for the Defendants will call their authority in Question, and the Court cannot support their authority by force. Mr. Justice from below the mountain near Delaware (whom you know & I not) continues to issue warrants, or precepts, but Mr. Yarrington the Constable swears he'll not serve any more warrants, as the Justices can do nothing after a man is taken. On Monday Col. Butler arrived here, and the day following he and several of the principal Inhabitants was over the River to Shaweney, but whether on º they wou'd fain make me believe) or on Public I cannot tell. On Thursday they had a Town meeting here, when they agreed according to Capt Spaldings Infor- mation to me, to send Mr. Harvey to a certain Place in Connecticut for a Copy of Records to see what time the first Settlers came here and who were they ; accordingly Mr. Harvey set off yesterday morn- ning. But by the way of another information I heard they had wrote to the Governor and assembly of Connecticut about having another Tryal for the soil, if not for Jurisdiction; for the People are divided, some for one some for the other, and some for both. They have also appointed a Committee last Thursday to confer with the Committee appointed by the House of Assembly. Cap Spalding is one of those for Wyoming, he is the truest of any which I have seen yet, his Interest doth not lay here at all, he claiming only a certain place near the Standing Stone, on which he formerly lived. Other Gentn. pretend ignorance of Court and Town Meetings to me, although I am very certain of the contrary & it is very likely they are absent in Person but present by Proxy at those Meetings, for some particular reasons give me leave to tell you my opinion in the matter; notwithstanding the Assurances you have had, the Con- duct & deportment of the People indicates a great dissatisfaction for the State of Pennsylvania. Before I could be up, I had wrote a Letter to Col Dennison & Cap Shott, setting forth the sentiments of both Branches of the Government concerning the dispute, but during the whole time of my presence here, I have not seen Mr. Dennison yet. Cap Robinson who came up on Monday last and went off again on Tuesday last, informed me there was no Knap- Dear Sir, -- º

End of Section 5. Continue to next section or 
Section 6
Page 25
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 25 sacks at all at North". I herewith send you a Letter which I had wrote some time ago, but for want of an Opportunity could not for- ward it, inclosing both pay and muster Roll, if you have not receiv'd any Money for me on that account please to send them down. The other Clothing is exceedingly necessary—To have provisions trans- ported up here, I made application for Waggons, but could not get on the States Account—I was therefore under the disagreeable ne- cessity to engage them myself, but when Logan and Myself came within about 15 miles of Wyoming, we met 3 Men, who, when they met the Waggoners, told them that Logan had desired them to order the Waggons back to Zawits's and there to unload. As this was en- tirely against my Orders & knowledge & encreasing the Expenses, (besides the Detention of Provisions which might have occasioned my leaving the ground again) for the cost Days, which Wandermark in- sists to draw pay for, I would therefore request the favor of you to settle this matter with Logan, for Wandermark says it is his real opinion that Logan desired these Travellers to order the Waggons to the above mentioned place. I have the Honor to be With due Respect, Dear Sir, Your most obedient and most humble servant, (Signed) PHILIP SHRAWDER. Directed, The Hon” John Wan Campen, Esq., Lower Smithfield. PREs. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1783. In Council, April 4th, 1783. Gentlemen, The particular Circumstances of this state render an attention to Indian affairs indispensably necessary; and as the present time seems in several Respects favorable, for obtaining a final and advantageous settlement of all Differences, We earnestly desire that you will use your utmost Exertions in Congress, to prevail on that Honorable Body to adopt without Loss of Time the most effectual measures, for making Peace with all the Indian nations. I am with great Esteem Gentlemen, your very h’ble servt., J. Indorsed, To Hon’ble the Delegates of Penn'a in Congress. 1783, April 4th.
Page 26
26 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES : 1783. CoMMISSIONERS FOR DEFENCE OF THE DELAWARE, 1783. To the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. We, the Commissioners appointed to procure and equip an arma- ment for guarding and defending the navigation of the Bay & River Delaware, most respectfully beg leave to represent, That as no doubt now appears to remain that Hostilities are ceased, conceive it our Duty to request your permission for us to dispose of the armed Wessels under our direction belonging to the State, in order to enable us to close our accounts with the Public. We also wish to know whether your Honors would not approve of having the military Stores belonging to those Wessels that are not perishable, deposited in the State Magazine, as at this time we apprehend they wou'd sell for very little money. We have the honor to be with every respect your Honors H’ble Servts., JNO. PATTON, FRAN’S. GURNEY. Comr's. WILL’M. ALLIBONE, Indorsed, Read & ordered y' they be directed to sell the armed vessels under their direction & deposit the military stores in the public magazine. EZEKIEL ROBINS To HoN. JAMES IRVINE, 1783. New York, April 6th, 1783. Dear Sir, I am happy to inform you that the long expected Packett has this morning arrived, she sailed the 24th I’ebruary, and brings us the official accounts of a Peace, we understand by private Letters there is great commotions amongst the Ministry respecting the matter, to morrow, its said a proclamation will be isued by the commander in Chief. David Sproat informs me that he had received his orders from the Admiral to discharge all the Marine Prisoners to Morrow, a happy deliverance Indeed, he likewise waited on me yesterday and acquainted me that he had received a Letter from the Councill for me to make up my accounts and pay what monies remained into his hands, that the Councill Expected it had been done before this, I did not ask him to produce his Letter as I believed it not to be the case, I think there is no reason that the State of Pensilvania should pay for what they never received; as they never received any supplies from * See Archives, Vol. XIII., p. 552.
Page 27
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1788. 27 him, should wish to know your sentiments, would have wrote Councill respecting the matter but thought it as well to mention the matter to you, should be glad to hear from you by some safe conveyance wishing you every happiness. I am with Respect & Esteem, Dr Sir, Yours Affectionately. EZEKIEL ROBINS. Directed, Honb' James Irvine, Esq., Philadelphia. Indorsed, “April 11,1783. Letter from Ezekiel Robins to Gen. Irvine rec'd, & ordered that Mr. Robbins be informed that Mr. Sproat's demand was not authorized by any act of theirs,” &c.” WAR OFFICE TO PRES. Dickissos, 1783. S War Office, April 8, 1783. Ir, I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency a late resolve of Congress. I am with perfect respect, Your Excellency's most obedient servant W. JACKSON. Assist’t Secº at War. Directed, His Excellency, the Presd’t of Pennsylvania. RESOLVE OF CONGRESS, 1783. By the United States in Congress assembled, April 4, 1783. Resolved, That the several States be required to suspend all enlistments for any Regiment or Corps in the army of the United States until the further order of Congress. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. PREs. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CoNGRESS, 1783. April 11, 1783. Gentlemen, As a considerable number of negroes belonging to Citizens of this State are now in New York, we should be glad that the most effectual Measures may be immediately taken by Congress, if it is not already done for securing such property, conformably to the seventh article * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIII., p. 553.
Page 28
28 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. of the provisional article, between the United States & Great Britain signed the 30th of November last. - I am Gentlemen with great Esteem & regard, Your obedient and humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, Honble the Delegates of Penn'a in Congress. Thos. FITZSIMONs To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Sir, The Proclamation for a suspension of Hostilitys being now pub- lished, the Commercial people of this City are anxious to know whether Wessels or goods coming into this state from Great Britain, or any of her ports, or Colonys can be admitted to entry at the Custom house. I have been requested to ask the opinion of your Excellency & the Honble Councill upon this point and as it may be of Considerable Consequence to the commerce of the state, I hope your Excellency - will be pleased to take it into Consideration, & favor me with your answer or Publish it, if that shall be thought most Expedient. I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys Most Obed’t H’ble Serv't. THOS. FITZSIMONS. Directed, His Excll'y, The President of the Supreme Executive Councill. Indorsed, April 12, 1783. From Honble Thomas Fitzsimons. John NICHOLson To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. The State of Penn'a. - To John Nicholson, Dr. To one Quarters Salary as Comptr. Genl., due the 13th inst. Jº 125 0 0 ..Sir, Permit me to request that an order may Issue upon the Treasurer in my favor for the above sum. I am with due respect your Excellency's most obedt. Humble servant, - JNO. NICHOLSON. Comptr. General's Office, April 14th, 1783. Directed, His Excell’y, John Dickinson, Esqr., President. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIII., p. 555.
End of Section 6. Continue to next section or 
Section 7
Page 29
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 29 CERTIFICATES OF JoHN NICHOLsoN, 1783. The following persons have applied and made oath agreeable to law that their Certificates respectively have never been alienated, They are therefore entitled to receive one year's Interest due there- upon The 10th of April, 1782, agreeable to the following schedule, Wiz : Principal. Interest. Abraham Gordon, a fifer 3d regiment, ºf 46 5 11 Æ2 15 6 Captn. John Nice, late of the 6th reg. * 2 Certif., 379 11 8 22 M5 5 Captn. Bernard Ward, of Attlee's regt., 202 0 0 12 2 4 Doctr. Wm. Smith, late senr. Surgeon Genl. Hospl. 1029 8 8 61 14 10 Ensign John Green, late of the Militia, 66 15 4 0 () Jeremiah Hornhethe, a Matros Artillery, 63 13 6 3 16 4 JNO. NICHOLSON. Comptr. General's Office, April 17th, 1783. The following persons have applied and made oath agreeable to law that their respective Certificates have never been alienated they are therefore Intitled to receive One year's Interest due thereon to the 10th of April, 1782, Conformably to the following schedule, WIZ - Principal. Interest. . Lieutenant Samuel McClellan, Late Lieut. Fg. Camp, 4.267 18 8 £16 1 5 Captain Ebenezer Carson, late of the 10th reg. 207 13 10 17 17 1 Timothy Burns, late private 3d reg., 59 3 7 3 10 10 Matthew Maguire, Captn. Lt. & P. Mr. Artillery reg. 395 14 0 23 14 9 Lieutent. John Stricker, of the ... - - Second reg., 201 2, 6 12 1 3 Dennis McCarthy, administrator to the Estate of Morgan Connor, late Colo. 7th reg., Dec'd, 402 13 2 27 15 1 JNO. NICHOLSON. Comptr. General's Office, April 17th, 1783. . . 4. v º - * 1 º' * - 2*
End of Section 7. Continue to next section or 
Section 8
Page 30
30 PENNSYLVANIA ARCIIIVES 1783. CoRRESPONDENCE RELATIVE TO WYOMING, 1783. 2 Wyoming, 17th April, 1783. Gentlemen, The Committee appointed to Represent the Claimants under the State of Pennsylvania, beg leave to address you and bid you wel- come to Wyoming, as the Representatives of the Honorably Assembly of this State. Your appointment and appearance here will we hope answer the good Purposes intended in the attainment whereof we assure that every proper Indeavour shall be on our part so far as our Interest or personal influence extends, we wish as much as Pos- sible to bury in Oblivion, the Treatment our Associates and fellow Citizens have received on those Lands, on which we first entered peaceably and quietly under the Lawful Authority of this Govern- ment. But cannot help Observing that some of the fairest Charac- ters and most worthy Citizens have lost their lives, by men who forced us and others from our Possessions, even without the pre- tention of authority from any Government Whatever. And for years have bid defyance to the laws & Powers of Pennsylvania, we find by the list of injured Purchasers, that we are Called to Repre- sent the Widows and Orphans of Many brave men who have fallen in the Common cause of their Country as well as ourselves and others, Who have impowered us to Appear for them. Our Grait and only aim is to set forth facts that are incontestably, True. To Wit, that we were in quiet and Peacable Possession of those Lands be- fore the intruders from Connecticut came here; that they took Pos- session by force, Plundered us of our property and Effects, and Compelled us to abandon our Settlement fairly Purchased from the lawful owners. - But we trust the day is now Come or near at hand, when civil Government will be restored and the laws Executed, so as to protect us and our Associates from any further insults; That the State of which we deem it an Honour to be called Citizens, will extend its Wholesome Laws to this quarter, and that in future we shall enjoy the Blessings of Civil Government, and Re-possess the Property Wrested from us by lawless Force. The unanamous and impartial decision of the Court which lately decided upon the Jurisdiction and Preemption of this Country Opens the way for a fair and full enquiry into the Justice of our Claims as individuals, the foundation of which will doubtless be laid before you by the Proper Officers. We have only to assure you that we shall patiently wate your deliberations, and pursue the steps that your prudence shall point out for Recovering of our Rights, as we deem it our duty to be directed by your Opinions, and to Recom- mend them as a present Law here. We must beg your Honours will be Patient in hearing the Complaints of our Constituents,
Page 31
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 31 which we shall lay before you from time to time. By this mode we shall fully inform you of the Situation of the Sufferers, and your Wisdom will lead to the most Effectual Measures of Certain Re- dress. We are in behalf of the Claimants under Pennsylvania, now As- sembled at Wyoming, and by order of the Committee. ALEXR. PATTERSON, Chairman. Directed, To the Honorable the Commissioners appointed by the General Assembly of Penns" for Certain Purposes. Now at Wyoming. No. 2. ANswer of the CoMMIssionERs. - Sir, The Commissioners appointed by the Honble the General Assem- of the State of Pennsylvania to endeavour to Compromise the dis- pute subsisting between the Citizens of said State and those formerly of the State of Connecticut, and Report a mode of introducing Civil Government into this part of the state, beg leave to Return you their sincere thanks, for the Polite Welcome you give them, as the Representatives of this State, to Wyoming. The Sentiments you express of using your endeavours and Per- sonal Influence to promote the ends of our Mission in this County, Viz., the Peace and Happiness of its Inhabitants by burying in Oblivion the former ill Treatment you, your Associates or fellow Citizens might have received are perfectly Agreeable to us. Allow us to assure you that as our duty dictates, so our inclination will prompt us to hear with Patience & pleasure what you may think proper to offer on this subject, and afterwards to determine with Candour and Impartiality on such Measures as may have a tendency to Establish Justice, Peace, and the Regular exercise of Good Government in this part of Pennsylvania. With Sentiments of Respect for the Gentlemen who you Represent, we are Sir, your most Obt. and Very humble Ser", JOS. MONTGOMERY. Chairm". Wyoming, April 18, 1783. Signed in behalf of the Commissioners. Directed, To Capt. Alexander Patterson, Chairman of the Claimants under Pennsylvania.
Page 32
32 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. No. 3. A. PATTERSox (Chairman) To THE CoMMIssionERs. Wyoming, Ap' 22", 1783. Gent., The Committee are honoured by your answer to their address, the Assurance you are pleased to give them of attention to the rights of the Citizens of this State, calls for their Grateful Acknowledgements and so perfectly harmonizes with the Sentiments of the Committee That we are instructed to Commit ourselves wholly to your Direc- tion in future, and in doing this are Confident, that our rights are in the Hands of those who will have a watchful eye over them. We are Sorry to Observe so much of the Old leaven Remaining in the Sentiments of the People of Connecticut & Expressed in their last Conference with your Honours, their Humanity would it seems permit us and our Assosiates to Gow any where over the wide world, no matter where, Provided they may enjoy our Lands, they Cannot Conveniently spare us one foot for the Support of our Families, We think this an ungrateful return to the good People of this State, and so far short of the Expectations of the Legislature whose Hu- manity and Pity Consigned to Oblivion all Past Offences by a Law for the Purpose; And whose wisdom pointed out the only way of informa- tion to the House of Assembly of the Real dispositions of the Con- tending Parties. We beg leave only to Suggest to your honours that we have reason to think the Obedience to the laws of this state by many of those people, will not be durable—Unless such Pledges are taken by your Honours as cannot admit of any evasion or denial hereafter, if that Assurance be once given, and the Pretended Claim under Connecticut Relinquished in writing Publickly, Planely and unequivically, we wish them. Afterwards every Indulgence that your Honours may Judge Generous in us, and worthy of the Approba- tion of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, and all the World. We propose to give them leave with Covenants of Warrant for holding their Possessions one year from the first day of March next, at the end of which they shall deliver up full Possession of the whole; They shall occupy half the Lands, Mow half the Meadows, Dwell in the Houses they now Possess, and Cultivate their present Gardens, and if they have any opportunity of disposing of their Hutts, Barns or other Buildings, they shall to do it and to remove them off at any time between the present day, and the first of May, 1784. The other Moiety or half of the Cleared Lands and Meadows to be pos- sessed by us and our Assosiates and no Impediment be thrown in our way to enjoy. The Rev" Mr. Johnson to have the full use of all the grounds he Tilled for two years, ending the first of May, 1785. The Widows of all those whose Husbands were killed by the Sava- ges to have a further indulgence of one year, after 1* May, 1784, for half their possessions & a square in the Town to be sct apart for
Page 33
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 33 their use, to which they may remove their Houses, and at the End of the term sell them to the best advantage for their own use; We think a Refusal of those terms hardly Possible, but if Stubborness and disaffection to the laws of this State are yet to Continue, We Trust your honours will be Convinced that on our parts, we have not had in View merely our own Private Interest, but that our offer will appear Just and Charitable before God and man. With every Sentiment of Respect, we are Gentlemen, your most obedient, in behalf of the Committee & by order, A. PATTERSON, Chairman. Directed, To Honble Jos. Montgomery, Esq., Chairman of the Commissioners. No. 4. John JENKINs To THE CoMMIssionERs. Gentlemen, - i. We duly Rec" yours of the 22” Ins', inclosing the address and Proposals of the Landholders of this State by their Committee, and altho we must Confess that their Elegant manner of Address is far beyond us, yet we hope our Plain Country way of Communicating our Ideas will be forgiven, but we cannot help taking Notice, that in their Address they Complain of a proposal that was made by us before your Honors being Very ungrateful, which to the best of our Remembrance was, that it had been intimated by some, that it was Probable this State would out of Courtesy bestow some thing, in the land way on the Settlers and Claimers of the Lands here under Connecticut, they were only Ask’d that if that was Granted out of Courtesy, whether they would not Exchange and Suffer us to enjoy our Peaceable Possession here by way of Compromise; their answer was that they were able to Apply for Lands as well as we. We are Extreamly sorry to entertain the Idea that in a Compromise we or they should instead of looking at the designed and desired Object, be forming Mountains out of Mole Hills, we do not think in the lawful defence of what we Esteem to be Our own can with any Jus- tice be Termed a disaffection to Government, we would add the Petition we laid in before the Legislative body of this State, we was in hopes would be Considered of as we find it is, and if that is Granted, or any other Satisfactory Measure Can be come into by way of Compromise, as we would first take all Lenitive Measures, and if nothing is Effected by this Method of Treating. We must have recourse to the Ninth Article of confederation, as that is the only way Pointed out for the Tryal of those Lands Claimed under different States, and altho we mean to pay due Obedience to the Constitutional laws of Pennsyl", yet we do not mean to become Ab- ject Slaves as the Committee of Landholders Surgest in their Ad- dress to your Honors.
Page 34
31 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. The proposals made by the landholders under Pennsylvº by their Committee, through you as Mediaters between us seem to Appear to our View to be far from even retaining their own Ideas or rather Contracted from those presented before your Honors, and on no other Conditions than a total disclaim and Imediate Surrender of all Claims will Satisfy them; what their Claims are we know not, only they say they are under Pennsylvania; we Expect they are made Acquainted with ours, and from that Possibly would wish to have it given up, for fear it should Overballance theirs. But we cannot as we are Joint tenants with a much Greater body of Joint Propria- tors than is here, without their Joint Consent give up our Claims to those Lands in dispute, nor yet do we think that the proposals by them made would tend to peace, and as they are so far from what we should Call Reasonable, that in short we Cannot Comply with any part of their Proposals—without doing the Greatest Injustice to our Joint Claimants, ourselves the Widows and Orphans, and as we seem to be verry far devided in our Ideas, are sorry to say we have no Expectation of Coming to any Amicable Compromise, yet we would wish for their Patience to see if the Legislative body of this State cannot devise some Measures in their Wisdom, for the Mutual Bene- fit of the Whole, if they shall not be able we would on our part wish that a Happy End might be put to the dispute by a Speedy Tryal Agreeable to the Ninth Article of Confederation which will fully Satisfy us, and we will fully Comply with. With Esteem & Respect, we are your Honors most Obd Humble Ser' Signed behalf of the Con by JOHN JENKINS. Wioming, 23 Ap', 1783. Directed, - To the Hon” Board of Commissioners. No. 5. JAcob JoHNSON To the Com" of the Pennsylvania Landholders, &c. Gentlemen, I thank you for your distinguished Favor shewed to me the widows, &c., in a proposal of Indulgence, Permitting us to reside in our present Possessions and Improvements for the present & suc- ceeding Year. Altho I cannot Consistly accept the offer, having Chosen a Com" for that purpose, who are not disposed to accept of or Comply with your proposals. However, I will for myself (as an Individual) make you a proposal agreable to that Royal President, Sam' 9", 16*, & 19th Chapter, if that dont suit you and no Com- promise can be made, or Tryal be had, according to the law of the States, I will say as Mepheboscth, Jonathan's son (who was lame
Page 35
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 35 on both his feet) said to King David, Sam' 19, 30, yea let him take all. So I say to you Gentlemen if there be no resource, Neither by our Petition to the Assembly of the State of Pennsyvania or other- wise, Let the Landholders take all. I have only this to add for my Consolation and you Gentlemen's serious Consideration, Viz: that however the Cause may be determined for or against me (in this present uncertain State of things,) there is an Inheritance in the Heavens, sure & Certain that fadeth not a way reserved for me, and all that love the Saviour Jesus Christ's appearing. I am Gentlemen, with all due Respect, & good Will your Most Obd Humble Serv", JACOB JOHNSON. Wioming, Apº 24*, 1783. To the Gentlemen Com”, &c. N.B. it is my Serious Opinion if we proceed to a Compromise ac- cording to the Will of heaven that the lands (as to the Right of soil) be equally divided between the two Parties Claiming, and I am fully Satisfied this Opinion of mine may be proved even to a demonstration out of the Sacred Oracles. I would wish you Gen- tlemen would turn your thoughts and enquiries to those 3 Chapters above refered to and see if my Opinion is not well Grounded & if so, I doubt not but we Can Compromise in love and Peace—and save the Cost and Trouble of a Tryal at Law. No. 6. ALEx. PATTERSON (Chairman) To CoMMISSIONERs. Gentlemen, J. By the Reply of the Committe of Connecticut to our Proposals (a Copy of which we were favoured with by you,) we find those Gentlemen have thrown off the Mask at last, and in their own Plain Country way tell you they are Sorry to say they have no Ex- pectation of Coming to any Amicable Compromise; they might have added with equal Truth that they never Intended to do any thing, but what dire Necessity obliged them, the forming mountains out of Mole Hills never Originated in the mind of the Peaceable Citizens of Pennsylvania, unhappy for our quiet, that it entered into the Restless imagination of the Susquehannah Adventurers, their de- signed & desired Object is to hold by force the Lands which we have fairly purchased and possessed in quiet, under the lawful Authority of this State; It Cannot be Possible that Ideas of holding our Pro- perty otherways than by force, could enter the minds of even the least informed of them, petitions may be wrote and Committees Ap- pointed to talk with you and us, to Lull the State, but actions speak louder than words and proofs as Clear as demonstrations is in our power to Shew their insults to this State and Contempt of its Laws
Page 36
36 - PENNSYLVANUA ARCHIVES 1783. —they try to pervert the meaning of words, and to offer generous to an Extreeme, they Reply that they mean not to become Abject Slaves as the Committee of Landholders Suggest in their address to your Honours—to Refute this we only have to appeal to you for the Rectitude of our measures and endeavours to do good. That we required a full explisite and unequivocal disclaim of their Right to our Lands is True, for we can rely no longer on Promises made only to amuse us, fatal Experience has Convinced us that we have been too Credulous, whether they know our Claim or not is of little Avail, your Honors know them well, they have been laid before you, we are not acquainted with theirs and the Judgement of the Greatest Court in the United States assures us that their rights are not to be understood any more than the Application of the Ninth Article of the Consideration in the Case between them and uS. -- We leave the Explanation of Joint Tenants and Joint Proprie- tors to those Gentlemen learned in the Law Jointly and Severally to form their Ideas from, and Parcell it out amongst the Joint Claimants in Grants of six miles Square to the South seas, we shall, however, follow the advice of those Gentlemen in every Prudent Act and patiently wait for the decision of our Assembly, and have to lament that the Generosity of this State, and your Zealous En- deavours to Accomplish the laudable ends of your Mission have been fruitless in this Instance. Be Assured Gentlemen that our Constituents and ourselves are Impressed with the Highest sense of your good intentions to Promote Peace, Order and good Govern- ment in this Country, and we flatter ourselves through your means & Just representations of our Situations, we shall obtain such Speedy Redress as the Wisdom of the Legislature shall think adequate to our wants, and the laws of the State be extended and Supported so as to Protect the innocent and Punish the Transgressor of every Denomina- tion in the Ready Execution, of which we beg your honors will assure the Legislature that we shall behave like faithful Citizens. Please to accept our warmest Wishes for a Safe Journey home to each of you, & believe us to be with Sentiments of the Highest Esteem and Regard, your most Obd and Very hum Serv". ALEX. PATTERSON. Chairman. Wioming, April 24, 1783. Signed in behalf of the Committee. Directed, - To the Honourable Joseph Montgomery, Chairman of the Com- missioners. - º -
End of Section 8. Continue to next section or 
Section 9
Page 37
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 37 A List of the Householders of the Different Settlements at Wyoming who wish to Support the Laws of Pennsylvania. Samuel Hoover, Thomas Hissam, Joseph Vanorman, Eph" Vanorman, < Nicholas Brink, John Lanterman, Nicodemus Travis, John Borelin, Low Kenney, Pilitiah Pierce, Ebenezer Taylor, James Brink, Thomas Brink, Peter Chambers, Peter Taylor, Samuel Drake, William Brink, Thomas Parks, Benjamen Raser, Elisha Courtright, Nath Devenport, Z. William Beatle, Peter Devenport, Conrad Lyons, Peter W* houten, James Spraig, - Benj" Bailey, Tho' Bolurn, John Hide, Douty, Stephen Tuller, Harris, — West, Tho' Brown, w Abitt, Jos. Ellott, Jabias Sells, Paul D. Shott, v. Henry Tousman, / Isaac Bennett, John Pillbury, John Miller, Helmes Chambers, je James Brink, Elisher Decker, Benj" Russell, John Jacobs, Darias Parks, Riah Steaphens, Thomas Bennet, John Nobles, Diah Nobles, Elisha Lipenwell, James Nobles, Lebias Stubs, Nathan Barlow, John Heway, Benj" Gamer, Jon" Church, John Roberts, Henry Decker, Under Connecticut. William Ivory, William Ross, Lord Buttler, Robert Young, Justis Jones, Abel Perington, John Hagerman, Matt" Hollaback, Nathan Dennison, W* Hooker Smith, Jilis Slocom, Simon Spalding, James Sutton, Billings, Jacob Woodcock, Derith Woodcock, George Charles, David Brewster, Joseph Huzerman, John O'Neal, James Johnston, William Fish, John Hollaback, Johnson, Drake, James Grimes, Terrell, Allenton, Moses Brown, Wardner, Sam Sheppard, Jesse Drake, Persevere Cooly, Jerº Wº Gordan, Henry Johnson, Tho' M*Clure, Jones, Junior, — M*Stanbury, Obediah Gore, Lieu' Moyers, Samuel Gore, —— Jauslin, William Slocom, Evans, Buck, Trucks, —— Sandford, Jacob Johnston, Johnston, Reuben Herrington, John Fitch, Ab. Westbrook, Ephriam Tylor,
Page 38
38 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. Thomas Reed, William Jackson, Leonard Westbrook, Daniel Gore, Jewell, Fred. Jackson, Price Cooper, Joseph Randell, Alsa Burnom, Charles Annest, Robert Jemmison, Nathan Northoop, Rausell Franklin, John Habbert, Samuel Coe, Trip, Nathan Bullock, Joseph Cory, Samuel Ayres, Alldon, Reuben Cook, Nannassa Cody, Jonah Rogers, Benjamin Cole, Roben Jones, Isaac Benjamins, Daniel Ingison, Nesbit, Samuel Ransom, Phinias Nash, Badlock, Benjamin Harvy, Nathan Kinsley, Frederick Evelant, —— Heth, Nathan Cook, Nathan Cary, John Cary, Ishmail Bennet, Walder, — Yeal, Elijah Innman, Richard Innman, Thomas Kenney, Daniel Sherrod, William Hibbard, Edwº Spincer, Caleb Spincer, John Durrings, —— Baleding, Daniel Pierce, Abel Pierce, James Adderton, Assial Adderton, Sam Halliott, Benjamin Jenkins, Old Jenkins, Windship, Jon" Foresight, John Blancher, Rob M-Dowell, Phinias Pierce, Partial Terry, Jonathan Terry, Solomon Bennet, Thomas Todder, Richard Brook, Bingdaun, Leb Hammon, John Hammon, Josiah Hammon, John Jenkins, Stephen Gardner, And" Blancher, Frederick Smith, Joseph Hammon, PRES. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1783. Gentlemen, By a Law of this state the Introduction of British goods is forbid during the war. Many respectable Merchants of this City have applied to Council desiring to be informed,” if British vessels may in the present situation of affairs be admitted to Entry. We there- fore earnestly wish to know the sense of Congress on this point, whether the United States are now at Peace with Great Britain. The Decision of this Question belongs to the national Council, & will when made clearly produce uniformity of proceedings throughout the States: But without it, there may be contradictory sentiments & measures among them. - I am gentlemen with great Esteem your very h’ble servt., JOHN DICKINSON. April 18th, 1783. Directed, - The Delegates of Pennsylvania. * See page 555.
End of Section 9. Continue to next section or 
Section 10
Page 39
PENNSYLVANIA ARCIIIWES 1783. 39 PETITION ROBERT TURNER—STATE FLAG, 1783. To the honourable the President & Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. Greeting That your Petitioner has taken Care of hoisting On public Occasions the State Flag on Market Street Wharf & been at an expence in the same humbly prays that your honours would be pleased to take the Same into Consideration & allow him such pay as you in your Wisdom seem meet. ROBT. TURNER. Thursday morn, 1783, April 24th. Directed, The Honourable The President & The Executive Council of the State of Pensylvania, Present. SAMUEL HodgDON TO COUNCIL, 1783. Return of Military Stores forward to Harris's on the Susquehanna for the use of the Troops to be employed on the North Western expedition. 12 Arm Chests q' 300 New French Muskets & Bayonets. 2 ditto. & 1 Box q 40 Rifles. 40 Screws & Wipers, 40 Bullet Moulds. 100 Shot pouch with Horns, 28 Boxes q' 40,248 Musket Cartridges, 4 do. q: 869 lbs. Musket Ball, 2 do. q' 2000 Musket Flints, 1000 Pistol do. 366 Brushes & Wires, 400 Screw drivers. Philadelphia, 20th April, 1783. Sir The above mentioned Arms and stores were delivered the State of Pennsylvania, for the use of the troops, destined for an incursion into the savages' Country in the month of September last, none of which have been returned. with estecm I am yours, SAM. HODGDON, Com. M. S. Directed, John Armstrong, Junr., Esq., Secretary. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 588.
End of Section 10. Continue to next section or 
Section 11
Page 40
40 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. No. 1—CorresponDENCE OF Rev. JAMES FINLEY, 1783. Cecil County, Maryland, April 28, 1783. Sº, As y Hon’ble Council over which your Excellency presides was pleased to appoint me to fulfil yº Intentions of y' Legislature by endeavouring to bring those deluded Citizens in ye western counties to a proper Sense of their duty, who seemed disposed to separate from y' Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, & erect a New & Inde- pendent state & left it with me to act as prudence might direct, &c. And, as I undertoook this business, they doubtless had a right to demand, & therefore may justly expect me to give an account of my conduct herein; which, may it please your Excellency, was as follows: Immediately upon y' receipt of y" appointment, & your Excel- lency's Instructions, which were of singular use to me, I set off; & endeavoured to gain all ye knowledge I could of y" sentiments & conduct of y" people in y different parts of those Settlements. And, as I found yt yº Inhabitants on y east side of y" River Youghioganni were mostly opposite to a New State, I passed them by. A considerable number of those between sº River & yº Monoungehela, as well as a great part of Washington County, I found to be fond of it; being misled by a few aspiring, & I suspect ill designing men, or by men who had not thorowly considered yº whole matter; which later was ye case of some of y" Clergy. I also found y' yº Act to preventy" erecting any New & Independent States, &c.; & likewise y Act for ye sale of certain lands therein mentioned, &c., of y" 3d of December last, quite intimidated & discouraged ye populace, who had been buoyed up with yº hopes of easily obtaining, & prospects of great advantage by a New State; & y' even y Ringleaders were for eating in their words & putting a new face upon their conduct; so yº y design of y" Legislature was partly effected, yet yº people seemed rather hushed than con- vinced: Therefore I called upon a number of y' Ministers & other Gentlemen, conversed with some & wrote to others, as well as cautioned yº people after Sermon against having any hand in such Schemes. The Substance of my conversation, cautions, & letters is to be found in yº copy of a letter I herewith send your Excellency; & which is nearely yº same with many I wrote on yº occasion; & which, in a leasure hour your Excellency may give a glance to, if it may be thought worth while. I carefully concealed my appointment from every one; nor did any appear to suspect it. But while some approved of my conduct, others, viz, y' New Statesmen alledged I was too officious; yet I * See postea. - º º

Page 41
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 41 suspect appearing in a public Character in y' affair would not have answered any better end. I concluded however that having y” letters in their hands & reading them one to another, as I found was the case, they would be obliged to attend to yº arguments. I hope some good is done; & cannot but believe yt ys New State affair is over at present. I was six weeks in y country; & would have tarried longer had it appeared requisite for y' good of y" State, But, I must tell your Excellency y' I fear much opposition will be made, especially by those disappointed in their expectations about a New State, & artifice used to evade a tax, I was greatly opposed in this; & could not answer y' objections against a tax in cash, other- wise than by alledging y' y' Assembly would surely adopt some easy measure which y” people could comply with ; & I hope this will be done, as those Settlements are nearly destitute of cash. If a Campaign should be carried on to ye westward this summer or fall in order to check y' insolence of yº savages, who have already killed & captivated many; y people, I doubt not, will readily contribute in grain or wheat, each man his share of y' tax; & by this means will be brought into yº custom without either force or disputation. And if it should seem good to yº legislature until money shall circulate more extensively, to appoint active & honest men to receive y' publick dues in flour & convey it to New Orleans to market, yº people would this way not only pay yº public tax, but also take out patents for their lands, So that in a short time many thousands would come into yº treasury, which otherwise need not be expected. With an ardent wish for y' peace & prosperity of your Government this comes from your Excellency's most obedient & humble Servant, JAMES FINLEY. Directed, To His Excellency, John Dickinson, President of the Supream Executive Council of Pennsylvania. - No. 2–CoRRESPONDENCE OF REv. JAMES FINLEX, 1783. Dunlaps Creek, March yº 18, 1783. Sº, I have long had a desire of settling in this country, but have been discouraged by y' Spirit of opposition to Government y' appeared among many, And their late motion for a New State seems to me even more unreasonable & dangerous than any former attempt especially y' of erecting themselves; which it is said has been pro- posed by some. That this motion for a New State is not only premature, & unjust, but also dangerous to yº Settlement, will appear by a few considera- * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIII., p 617.
Page 42
42 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. tion.—If you consider y' Burthens would necessarily ensue you cannot think y' for years to come you would be equal to them. You would be obliged to support a Convention in framing a Con- stitution: & afterwards a greater number of Counselors & Assembly- men than you now have: Also a President, Judges of ye Supream Court, with Delegates in Congress. You would likewise have to contribute for supporting Ambassadors abroad & an Army at home, which, more or less, must still be kept up; & also for discharging y" national debt contracted in y present war. Paper money you know, would not do; Gold & silver would be required for all these purposes.—But could they be expected from a people always & justly pleading their want of such cash 2 I fear they would find y- New State's little finger thicker than y Old State's loyns; & y they would soon complain, as yº members of some weak States begin to do that, “The support of Government is too heavy for them.” Whereas continuing as you now are much of y" above expences would be cut off. I must also tell you yºyº motion for a New State seems unjust : For, consider y', Pennsylvania has as good a title to all y lands within her lines as any State in y' Confederacy; or, as any of you have for your plantations: And, I may say, guaranteed to her by yº other States. The lands in this settlement y' were claimed by Virginia are now acknowledged by y' state to be y' right of Penn- sylvania; & y lands claimed by Connecticut on y other side are now by a Decree of Congress confirmed to Pennsylvania also; to which y” Inhabitants of said lands have submitted.—Consider like- wise that there has been a great expenditure of both blood & treasure in part for your defence; & a large sum (I am told an hundred & ten thousand pounds sterling) promised to yº late Pro- prietor to enable him to discharge debts probably contracted with a dependence on his claim to Pennsylvania. This heavy debt to him had been contracted in order to have you as well as others exempted from future propriatory demands. You know Sº, y' part of y" un- located lands has been allotted to yº officers & soldiers in ye Penn- sylvania line for their encouragement in y defence of your civil & religious rights; & y' y' remainder is considered as a fund for disharging y' aforesaid debts. These things considered, can your people think it just to attempt being erected into a New State within yº claim of Pennsylvania without her consent, & without having made any proper compensa- tion to her ? Would they desire to defraud yº men who fought for them out of their lands Or can they think those brave men would not resent yºungrateful treatment, & defend their property sword in hand 7 Or can your people desire to shift paying y' debts which honour & confidence both urge to see discharged 7 "Can they attempt to lay yº foundation of a State in iniquity & deceit, & yet expect y' blessing of y' righteous Governour of ye World ! Have y" subjects of any nation attempted, especially by violence, to dis- E-
Page 43
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 43 member yº State, unless on account of intolerable tyranny practised against them 7. But, I suppose, y' warmest contenders for y' point among you, alledge nothing of that nature. This New Settlement has rather been nursed like a child by y' old. The Council, Presi- dent, Judges, Assembly, Delegates in Congress, & y Army have all hitherto been supported out of the Treasury into which you have yet put nothing, & some even refuse to do it. And why should such a Nursling attempt to desert y' parent before it can stand alone; & while, if it were a State must appear contemptible & with- out weight in the scale of Empire * This is surely ridiculous ! In vain are y- first Colonies of America urged as a Precedent. They had no other refuge in their first settlement, but were constrained by hard necessity to begin their Government with a few families or be without laws. Yet they had y” advantage of being without debt, which is not your case. If any alledge great inconvenience in being connected with y” other part of yº State, I answer y' yº difficulty is not greater than in some other States, & far from being insuperable. The usual business of each county can be transacted in itself without difficulty; & if tryal of causes in y Supream Court can be had without much expence by y' Circuits of y' Judges; while y' attendance of mem- bers of Assembly is defrayed by y' State in general. Should yº distance from ye present Seat of Government be thought a griev- ance, petitioning for removal to a place more central could not be blaimed, & no doubt would be granted as soon as y” arguments for such a removal should appear to your Representatives weightier than those against it. The same measure might be taken for having a land office established among you, yº want of which many com- plain of. All these things considered, I think it no wonder y' Congress (as I am told,) treated a late application for a New State with disregard & I doubt not ever will while matters continue as they are. And if you should without y' consent of Congress erect yourselves into a State, & by faction & violence dismember y” old, you would cer- tainly incur ye Displeasure & bring y' force, not only of Penn- sylvania, but of all yº States upon you, since they are bound to assist & defend each other in y possession of their rights. I tremble to think y' before we are well emerged from a war with foreigners we might be called to stain our hands in each others blood There are many who considering these things think & even “say, y' y' motion for a New State must & does originate with ill- ‘designing men, who desire to save their Estates at present, & ‘make opportunities for advancing themselves to posts of honour & ‘profit hereafter; but cover their designs with pretences of public ‘good. And, say they, we know y' by such pretences, & by yº same ‘class of men y Settlement has been kept in confusion year after ‘year to yº detriment of y" Publick & hurt of Individuals; & y” ‘when one Scheme fails another is invented.” Hence they alledge
Page 44
44 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. yº when y' motion for a New State has had its operation some other affair will be brought on y' carpet. If this be true, I may say, how long will you suffer yourselves to be imposed upon? However, I am of opinion that there are several Gentlemen who are far from any ill design, but thro' mistake or simplicity are led in. I wish them to consider & retreat before it be too late. You are all professors of Christianity, It surely requires men to be honest, peaceable & submissive, attending to yº one thing needful. But yº measures pursued by some have a different effect. They *gender animosities, contentions, & many evil works; & may end in confiscations, banishment, & blood. There are different Denomina- tions of Professors among you; strict notice will be taken of all; & observations made on such of these as appear most refractory & ungovernable. I wish all may avoid confirining y' opinion of some Gentlemen at y' commencement of y' war. They argued against it, alledging y', “if we were independent, our back Settlements especially thro' yº avarice & ambition of petty Statesmen would become a New Germany, a Seat of Contention & field of blood. Upon ye whole I would recommend to all what I design to do myself, viz., cheerfully to pay yº annual tax, which I doubt not yº Assembly will make as easy as circumstances will admit, & as soon as may be, to get their lands patented; which may now be done on perhaps yº easiest terms will ever be had. By this means you might in some years be pretty clear of y" debts mentioned; & might, if it should then be thought necessary, with a better face supplicate for a New State; which to attempt at present seems both foolish & unjust. - I have been labouring for y good of this Settlement these thirteen years; & my constant wish for this, & y' I & my Children may be allowed to live with you in peace & in yº fear & love of God prompt me to be thus large on this subject. And I am sure my Character requires me to endeavour to prevent especially publick evils, & to promote Righteousness & Peace in yº land. In yº meantime I am, with all due respect, S', yours Sincerely JAMES FINLEY. P. S. As I wish y' thoughts I have suggested may be duely considered by y' people, so it cannot be disagreeable to me y' you shew this letter to as many as you think fit.
Page 45
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 45 PREs. DICKINson To DELEGATES IN Condfess, 1783. * In Council, Pa., Apl. 29th, '83. Gentlemen, Council wrote to you some time ago, desiring that you would endeavour to have the most effectual measures speedily adopted by Congress for making Peace with the Indian nations. Having lately received advices that about forty Inhabitants of this State have been killed and taken by them, & having good Reason to be assured, that these Hostilities will be continued along the Frontiers, we think it our Duty earnestly to repeat our Request. - Perhaps the United States might appear more respectable to those nations at a Treaty to be held with them after the Delivery of Niagara & Detroit tolls by the British; but, in the meantime, we hope such steps may be taken, as may be the means of saving many lives, and preventing great Calamities. We wish Congress would be pleased to consider, whether it might not have a good effect upon the Indians, to inform them by authority, that Peace has been made with Great Britain, the articles of which are now carrying into Execution; that the Back Country with all the Forts is thereby ceded to us; that they must now depend upon us for their Preservation and, that unless they immediately cease from their outrages, & remain quiet till we can hold a Treaty with them at Niagara or Detroit, we will instantly turn upon them our armies that have conquered the king of Great Britain, and now have us other Enemies to employ their Valour, and extirpate them from the Land where they were born and now live: But, that if they behave as they ought to do, they shall be treated not only justly, but friendly. Such Intelligence as this with the advance of a proper Reinforcement to Genl. Irvine at Pittsburg, & the Exertions of the Troops under his Command, might put a stop to the cruelties of the savages, or at least prevent their becoming more extensive. I am Gentlemen with great Esteem and Regard - Your &c"., J. D.” Indorsed, 1783, April 29th. To Hon’ble The Delegates of Penn'a in Congress. * See page 46. Vol. X. —3
End of Section 11. Continue to next section or 
Section 12
Page 46
46 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. JoHN NICHOLSON TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Sir, I beg leave to request that an Order may be drawn upon The Treasurer in my favor for five hundred pounds state money for the purpose of paying the one third part of Depreciation Certificates agreeable to Law, The sum last rec'd is intirely expended. I have the Honor to be with the Greatest respect #. your Excellency's most obed Humble servant, JNO. NICHOLSON. Directed, His Excell’y, The Presid’t of Penn'a, present. - RESOLVES IN CONGREss, 1783. In Congress, May 1st, 1783. Resolved, That the Sec'y at War, take the most effectual measures to inform the several Indian Nations, on the frontiers of the United States, that Preliminary articles of peace have been agreed on and Hostilitys have ceased with Great Britain, and to communicate to them that the forts within the United States and in possession of the Iłritish troops will speedily be evacuated, intimating also that the United States are disposed to enter into friendly treatys with the different tribes and to inform the hostile Indian nations, that unless they Immedy cease all hostilitys, against the Citizens of these states and accept of these friendly proffers of peace, Congress will take the most decided measures to compel them thereto. Ordered, That the Secy at Warr, transmit the proceedings of Con- gress herein with copys of President Dickinson & Gen. Irwine's letter to the Comm” in Chief & the Comm” for Indian affairs in the Northern departm'. - SEc'Y ARMSTRONG. To WM. MACLAy, 1783. Si In Council, 2d May, 1783, Philada. 1r, The late Indian outrages upon our frontier, have induced Council to direct, that an immediate supply of amunition be forwarded for their defence. I have it therefore in command to express their
Page 47
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 47 wishes, that two boxes of Musquet Cartridge & 300 flints fit for rifles be forwarded from the Military stores under your direction to Capt. Robinson now at Wyoming. Conveyance is supposed to be easy and frequent—the propriety of seizing the earliest, will suggest itself. I am Sir, with the highest respect, Your most Obed & very hum. Serv'. JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Scey. Gen. Potter or Col. Hunter will take charge of it at Sunsbury. The enclosed letter, which I beg you to forward with the amunition, is to that purpose. J. A. Directed, publick service. William M*Clay, Esq., or in his absence to Mr John Harris, Harris's Ferry. SEc'Y ARMSTRONG. To GEN'L POTTER, 1783. Dr Sir with this letter, you will receive two boxes of musket cartridges and two hundred rifle flints, which Council has thought proper to forward to your frontier. It is their intention, that it be sent from Sunbury by the first safe conveyance to Wyoming. The letter addressed to Cap Robinson may go with it. Councill think it unnecessary to suggest the slightest motive to interest your attention to this business. I am, Sir, With the highest esteem, Your most obedº Hum. Serv'. JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Secy. In Council, Philad', 2d May, 1783. Directed, Public service. Hon. Major Gen. James Potter, or in his absence to Samuel Hunter, Esq., Sunbury.
End of Section 12. Continue to next section or 
Section 13
Page 48
48 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. Thomas FITZSIMONs To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1783. Sir, I have the honor to hand the Councill an act of Congress passed the 1" Inst.*& I hope in a few days, other measures will be adopted to give further satisfaction to the state upon Indian affairs. I have the honor to be, Y: Excell” most obed' h’ble serv'. THOMAS FITZSIMONS. May 4, 1783. Directed, * His Excell’y the Presid’t of the Supreme Executive Councill. JoHN NICHOLson To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Si Compt' Generals Office, May 5th, 1783. 1r I beg leave to request that an order issue on the Treasurer in my favor for five Hundred pounds state money for the purpose of paying one-third part of Depreciation Certificates. The sum last recº is nearly disbursed. I have the Honor to be, With much respect, Your Excellency's obed. Humble servant. JNo NICHOLSON. Directed, His Excellency, the President of Pennsylvania. CAPT. THOMAS Robinson To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1783. Northumberland, May 8th, 1783. Sir, The Instructions of Councill Dated may 5th, I Rec" this 4th June, º Ins', on my way from Wyoming to this town, the Amunition entioned was then on its way to Wyoming. Hitherto, Every Measure has been Taken to preserve a friendly Intercourse Between the Soldiery & the Inhabitants, & I have the Pleasure to Inform your Excellencie that the Measures I Have Made Use of Has had the Desired Effect. * See page 46.
Page 49
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 49 With Respect to the Inhabitants, there are a great Many Wrang- ling Disputes Chiefly owing to a pelfering as well as Letegious Spirit which Seems very Natural to some of them. In all such Cases they have Imediate recourse to us as there are no Civel Officer in the place, and many of them thought To avail themselves of the Opportunity, Imajining no Law was to take Hold of them; they Proceeded to take and Make use of their Neigh- bours Property at Pleasure And even to Disposess others. Upon which I Imediately Interposed, Choosing such as I thought freeist of that Letigous Disposition & who best knew the affairs of the Place for Information, and have so Far Prevailed in that Re- spect as to preserve (by their own Accounts) a beter Regulation than has ever been Among them before. But Notwithstanding their Seeming Compliance There is Still a refactory Spirit among them, though they Wish to keep up a good appearance—of these affairs I am well aware and am Wery Careful to keep them at A proper Distance. And Your Excellencey may be assured that no Endavour Shall be wanting on my part to keep Good order Among them Till Civel Authority takes place, and I have no Doubt of proceeding therein. From Some Encouragement they Have Received from the Assembly of York State, a party have been Choosen to Wiew some Land As- signed them for a settlement; Which Party is now Returned, But I am not able to Learn the Intentions of the people on the Report of their Commissioners. I am with Every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, Your Excellencies Most Obedient Humble Servant, THOS, ROBINSON. Capt”. Directed, His Excellence, John Dickinson, Esq., President of Sup” Ex- ecutive Council, Penns" Phila. * GEN, ST. CLAIR To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Philº, May 9", 1783. Gentlemen, Colonel Porter has called upon me to certify to Council the Rank he was entitled to in the Pennsylvania Regiment of Artillery previous to the Reduction that took place on the first of January last. He had been a long time the eldest Captain of the Regiment rose to the Majority, and by the Resignations of Colonel Proctor and Lieut. Col. Forrest became entitled to the Rank of Lieut. Col.
Page 50
50 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. Commandant, but from what Cause, I know not, the Commission did not Issue. On the first of January last, the Corps was reduced to four Companies to be commanded by two field Officers, a Lieuten- ant Colonel and Major. Colonel Porter was continued the Lieuten- ant Colonel, because the bringing him forward would have obliged him to retire from Service, to which he was averse—but there is no doubt he was clearly entitled to the Rank of Colonel Commandant. I have the honor to be with great Respect Gentlemen, your most obedient Servant, A. Sº CLAIR, Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President and the honorable the supreme executive Council, of Pennsylvania. Indorsed, 1782, May 9th, From General Sinclair. June 30th, 1783, Ord" that a Letter be written by the Secretary to the Secretary at War, observing that in the Commission to Col. Porter, the Word “Com- mandant” is omitted, & desiring that it may be added, as he was entitled to the Rank of Lieutº Col Commandant, at the time of issuing the said Commission. John NICHOLSON TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Compt. General's Office, May 20th, 1783. Sir The sums of State money I have hitherto rec'd have been applied for the purposes they were advanced, and further applications require further advances. Shall be much Obliged by an Order from the Treasurer in my favor for the further Sum of five hundred pounds, for paying #d part Depreciation Certificates. I have the Honor to be, With much respect, Your Honor's most Obed. Humble ser, JNO. NUCBIOLSON. The Hon’ble James Ewing, Esq., Vice President.
End of Section 13. Continue to next section or 
Section 14
Page 51
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 51 r CoMM'Rs of TAxes For PHILADELPHIA Co., To PRESIDENT DICKINSON, 1783. To His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President, and the Honorable, the Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, When we sent out the Duplicates for the State Money tax, it did not appear to this Board that the holders of the Continental State Money had a right to expect an allowance of Interest due on that money in payment of their taxes, as the Law seemed to point out another mode by which the Interest was to be paid. The County Treasurer said he could not receive the money with such an allow- ance, for that the State Treasurer would not take it from him in that way; We therefore directed the Collectors to receive and pay it into the Treasury as the other State Money made payable by law, for this tax, and they have accordingly paid into the Treasury about 2400 Dollars, without abating the Interest. It seems a number of Gentlemen have refused to pay this tax in any other money than that in question, nor in this without an abatement of the Interest, which retards the collector of the tax, and has occasioned the State Treasurer's application to the Attorney General, for his opinion on the subject, on the receipt of which he had agreed to receive into the Treasury the Continental State Money, abating the Interest, and the County Treasurer in like manner. Before we give any further orders to the Collectors on this business, shall be much obliged to the honorable Council for their advice and direction in the premises. We submit it whether some other consistent mode may not be adopted for discharging this Interest than for the Collectors allowing the same in receiving of taxes, which we apprehend would lay open to sundry abuses. We are, Gentlemen, Your most obedient and very humble Servants, GUNNING BEDFORD, JOHN BAKER. Philada, May 21st, 1783. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President, &c., &, &c.
End of Section 14. Continue to next section or 
Section 15
Page 52
52 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. John Nicholson To W. P., JAMEs Ewing, 1783. Comptroller General's Office, May 24th, 1783. Sir, - I beg leave to request that orders may Issue upon the Treasurer in favor of William Bradford, Jun., Esq., Attorney General of the State, and James Willson, Esquire, for forty pounds each, the fee charged by them in the cause depending between this Commonwealth & Timothy Matlack, Esquire, late Secretary of the Supreme Execu- tive Council. - I have the Honor to be, With the highest respect, Your Honor's most Obed. Servt., JNO. NICHOLSON. Directed, - The Hon’ble James Ewing, Esq., Vice President. REPAIRs of PEST Houses, 1783. At the Request of the Honourable, the Executive Councylls, we have Examined the pest houses on State Island, and have estimated the Expence of putting the whole in the same Repare that Some of them are in at present, and are of opinion that it may be done for four hundred pounds. If Councyll shall think proper we will pro- cure Materials and Gett the whole Compleated on the usual Terms and without any unnecessary delay. GUNNING BEDFORD, THOS. NEWELL. 26th May, 1783. DELEGATES OF PENNSYLVANIA To CouncIL, 1783. The Delegates of Pennsylvania present their respectful Compli- ments to the Hon’ble Council & inform them that the Secretary at War is authorized by Congress to repair & deliver, the New Prison to such Person as Council shall please to appoint to receive Posses- sion thereof. 2 June, 1783. Directed, His Excellency, The President & The Hon’ble Council of Penn- silvania.
End of Section 15. Continue to next section or 
Section 16
Page 53
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 53 JoHN NICHOLSON TO PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Compt. General's Office, June 5th, 1783. May it Please your Excellency, The State money I have received is all expended, I therefore beg leave to request an Order for the further sum of five hundred pounds for paying a third of Depreciation Certificates. I am with much respect, Your Excellency's most Obed. servant, JNO. NICHOLSON. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President. SECR'Y. ARMSTRONG. To Rob. MoRRIs, 1783. Phil", June 7th, 1783. Sir, - In reply to your letter of yesterday, I have the pleasure to inform you that this Board have already gone into your wishes on the Sub- ject of the collection and payment of taxes. A late pressing letter has been written to the different County Commissioners, and among other considerations more partial in their application, the necessities of the army—the justice of their claim and the foreign engagements of Congress have been powerfully Urged. - I am, Sir, &c., &c., JOHN ARMSTRONG,” jun' Sec'y. PREs. DICKINsoN To SURVEYor GEN., 1783. (In Council, Pe.) Sir, The Intelligence received by us of Hostilities committed on the Frontiers of this State by Indians, induced us to deferr giving You directions for surveying and laying out in Lots, the Tract of Land first described in the Law, entitled “An Act for the Sale of certain Lands, &c., passed on the twelfth Day of last March, until we had taken some previous Steps for Facilitating the Execution of that Measure, and had Reason to hope that Circumstances were so far matured as to be more favourable to the Design of the Legisla- ture. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIII., p. 594. 3 *
Page 54
54 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. We now would have you to proceed immediately in that Bussi- ness, conforming Yourself therein to the said Act. We apprehend that you should begin with the surveys of the two Tracts, each of three thousand acres reserved for the use of the State. You will then go on to survey the rest of the Land, & to lay out & number the Lots, so that the Lots being contiguous one to an- other, the Plot of them may form an accurate Draught or Map of the Country. In this Map we desire you to insert the Courses of the Several Waters, and their general Depth with all Possible exactness, and to note the Places of mines, if any, Proper Situations for Towns Mill seats & any other remarkable Advantages. We also earnestly wish that the particular Quality of each Lot may be ascertained in the Draught or in a Schedule annexed to it, & such a precise Description be given as may be practicable. It will be a Matter of great Consequence to have the Courses Dis- tance, & Boundaries of each lot determined with the utmost preci- sion, for encouraging the Sales & for presenting future Dispute; & We should be glad that you may avail yourself of Natural Bounda- ries as much as may be consistently with the Description of the Lot, & a proper Form of the Lots, & that the Water may be divided as the nature of the ground will admit to the several Lots where such natural Boundaries do not occurr, Boundaries should be distinctly & thoroughly marked. We confide much in your Integrity & Ability for the performance of this Work so important to the State; and as we are assured that you will employ no person under you, but such as are in every Respect worthy of so high a Trust, it will be needless to say more on that subject, but this that we expect the surveys of every Lot to be made with as much Care & nicety as can be practiced, and that every person employed be bound not to give to any person or per- sons whatever, any advice or Information concerning the Quality or advantage of any Lot or Lots, except the Return to be made to Council as is herein before mentioned. If any Indians converse with you on this Business, you may as- sure them that those Lands are within the Boundary of Pennsylvania, and though the king of Great Britain has ceded and finally relin- quished them, and we have full power to maintain our title by force of arms. Yet we sincerely intend to treat them, as our ancestors treated their Forefathers, and to deal friendly with them, if they will suffer us to do so. - We shall write to General Irvine to afford you all the assistance & lºsion in his power. We think his advice may also be very useful. I am, Sir, Your obedient and very humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON.
Page 55
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 55 STREET CoMMISS'Rs. To CouncIL, 1783. His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., and the honorable the Sup- reme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, The Street Commissioners are about regulating Fifth Street, be. tween Chestnut & Walnut Streets, in order to carry off the Water, make the Street a more convenient Passage, and that it may appear decent to the many Strangers & others who pass that way to the State House, &c. Altho' it is not in the Commissioners power to pave this Street at present, and therefore cannot legally call on those who own Estates fronting on the street, to pave the Gutters & Footways yet we beg leave to mention to the Honorable Council that if this is done be- fore the east side of the State House square, the Passage would be much more convenient, and perhaps much more reputable to the State. GUNNING BEDFORD, SAMUEL M-LANE, JOS. CAUFFMAN, FREDERICK KUHL, CHARLES MARSHALL.” Philadelphia, June 10th, 1783. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., &c., &c. PREs. DICKINSoN TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1783. Gentlemen: - We observe in a Resolution of Congress of the 26° of last Month, that Furloughs are to be granted to non-commissioned Officers & privates inlisted to serve during the War. We earnestly desire that you may prevail with Congress to have this Resolution executed in such a Manner, that a sufficient garrison may still be maintained by the United States at Fort Pitt. We are informed by the Secretary at War, that some of the Maryland Line, if not of the Pennsylvania Line also, are inlisted to serve for three Years. We also wish you to represent to Congress, that the Troops of this State are expected to arrive in a few Weeks from South Caro- lina, & in a sickly Condition; and We hope that ". provisions will be made for their Dismission in as comfortable Circumstances as the situation of Affairs will admit. I am, Gentlemen, &c", Indorsed, June 11, 1783. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 597, 602. J. D.
End of Section 16. Continue to next section or 
Section 17
Page 56
56 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES. 1783. Sec'y ARMSTRONG TO GEN. W.M. IRVINE, 1783. Secº. Office, P., June 19th, 1783. Sir - As Council have come to a determination to make sale of the lands appropriated by law for the redemption of the depreciation certificates, they have accordingly instructed the Surveyor Gen. of the State to proceed with all possible dispatch in the first steps of that business. He has our directions to call upon you for advice, and such . Other Assistance as it may be proper and convenient to give. We flatter ourselves that many advantages to the State may be derived from both. I am, Sir, with much respect, your most Obedient Humble Servant, JNO. ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. Indorsed,—June 12, 1783. Gov. HARRIsoN, OF WA., To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. S In Council, June 12* 1783. Ir, A Number of the Inhabitants of that Tract of Country which falls by the temporary Line between the two States, within the Bounds of Pennsylvania, complain that the Conditions upon which it was acceded to on either Side have been departed from, and Measures adopted by your State which deprive them of those rights they held, and subject them to Censure for their Conduct while in Office, and in performance of the Duties they owed to this Government. The Titles to Lands acquired under this State, which were stipu- lated to be confirm'd to the Proprietors if they should fall into that, are stated to be laid aside, and they put on the same footing with those originally within the Bounds of Pennsylvania, by which they are subjected either to the loss of the Land, or to the payment of an additional Sum of Money for a Confirmation of their rights, a Con- dition in either alternative contrary to the express engagements of the two States. They further complain that the Officers of Militia who obey'd the Orders of the Executive of this State in repelling the Enemy and defending the frontier previous to the temporary Boundary Line, are subjected to Suits before the Courts, whose decisions have been against them, by which means Punishments are affix’d to Actions which are not criminal, and the late Citizens of this State harrass'd and oppress'd with Expence for performing the Services which they owed to their Country.
Page 57
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 57 This is the Subject of the Memorial of these Citizens, who mingle, also, Suspicions that these Measures have been adopted, and they subjected to Injury, more from a Spirit of resentment and displea- sure to them from their Attachment to this State, than from any other Cause. Nothing further of the proceedings of your State upon this Sub- ject than what I have from these Memorialists, which I am inclin'd to pay the more Attention to from the Consideration of the Character of the Gentlemen who sign it. It is with pain I have heard their Complaints, being convinced it hath been the Intention of your Gov- ernment to comply with its engagements and do them. Justice. But as Citizens who claim rights under this Government, they are entitled to Attention; and I therefore give you the Contents of their Memo- rial. I doubt not if personal resentment hath mingled itself in the proceedings of your State, it hath taken Place more in the execution than in the Object of the Laws, more in the personal resentment and party Spirit of those to whom this Duty is committed, than in a de- sign of the Legislature or Executive to do them Injury. At the same time, therefore, that I desire the favor of your Excellency to communicate to me what hath been done on this Subject, I doubt not but you will take such Measures, either with the Legislature if the Evil originates there, or the Officers of Government in that quarter, if they have transcended their Duty, as will remove the Cause of Complaint which aggrieves these people. The difficulties under which these States have for some Time since greatly labored, are nearly at an End. Those internal arrangements which more immediately demand the attention of each respective State upon the close of the War, will soon be accomplished, and we shall, I doubt not, find it equally convenient to either State to run and establish a regular & final Boundary between them, an Event not among the most inconsiderable of the Blessings of Peace. I have the Honor to be, with Sentiments of perfect Esteem and respect, your Excellency's most obedient and most Hum. Servant, BENJ. HARRISON. His Excellency John Dickinson. - PREs. DICKINson To THOMAS SMITH, 1783. June 14, 1783. Sir, - In Compliance with your Request by Letter on the 24" of last Month, Council will now give their Opinion on the Questions proposed. - As to the first, the General Assembly having, by an Act for the Settlement of public Accounts, passed the Day before the Law
Page 58
58 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. mentioned by you, wested “full Powers in a Commissioner, for liquidating & selling id specie Value, all Certificates given for sup- plies by public Officers to Individuals, and other Claims against the United States of America by Individuals for supplies furnished to the army, the Transportation thereof & contingent Expences thereon within this State.” We apprehend that the Certificates alluded to, would be thus liquidated & settled by the said Commissioner before they are presented to you for payment of a year's Interest. As to the second—We think that the persons claiming payment of Interest under the Act, should give the necessary proof of these Facts—for it's that the Certificates were originally issued from the Loan Office of this State to persons who then were or since become Citizens of this State, or were given or granted for Articles furnished, of service done and performed by persons who then were Citizens of this State—secondly, that the persons claiming are now “actually resident within the same.” By “reasonable proof,” may reasonably be understood such proof as in your Judgement is satisfactory Evidence of Truth. You will call for every Voucher & Document that can assist you to make a Determination, & which can be obtained. If Doubts remain, the Claimant must produce, if he can, sufficient Testimony to remove them, or fail in his Demand. As to the third—It seems to us that the Interest on the Certifi- cates therein referred to, should be computed according to the Depreciation. I am, sir, with much respect, Your obedient and very humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Indorsed, 14* June, 1783. FRA's Hopkinson To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. To His Excellency the President & Honourable the Supreme Execu- tive Council. - Gentlemen : Agreeable to Law & Usage, I enclose my Account of Fees received as Judge of the Court of Admiralty for the Quarter ending the 18th- Inst., & amounting to £73 4, duly certified by the Register. Praying your Honours to grant me a Warrant on the Treasury for £50 on account of Salary, I have the Honour to be, with all Respect, Gentlemen, Your most obedient and very humble servant, FRAS. HOPKINSON.
End of Section 17. Continue to next section or 
Section 18
Page 59
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 59 SAMUEL HodgpoN To Council, 1783. Philadelphia, 18th June, 1783. Gentlemen, Soon after the reduction of York, Congress Resolved—that two Pieces of Ordnance, six Pounders properly inscribed, should be presented to Count de Grass; two pieces were accordingly left here for that purpose, but through mistake in March last they were delivered the State of Penna. in lieu of two received from them at the commencement of the War. A favourable opportunity now presents for sending them to France, and as others cannot be had timely, I am directed by the Secretary at War to request your honorable board would give an Order for the return of those men- tioned upon an assurance of their being replaced as soon as two others can be brought on from the Army; the Carriages belonging to the pieces are not wanted, as we have those on board that are more suitable. Should be much obliged by an early answer. With profound respect, I am, Gentlemen, Your most Obedient Servant, SAM. HODGDON, Com'y. Mil. Stores. Directed, Hon'ble The Supreme Executive Council. Indorsed, 18th June, 1783. From Sam. Hogdon, Esq., Com'y M. Stores. 28th June–Ordered that Mr. Stiles be directed to deliver the two pieces of Ordinance, Six pounders, which became the property of this State upon the reduction of York in Virga, to Sam. Hodgdon, Esq., upon his receipt & engagement to replace them as soon as possible. PREs. DICKINson To Col. HUMPTON, 1783. Copy. Sir, If the Soldiers from Lancaster do not voluntarily submit & put themselves upon their march for that place, I think it absolutely necessary that they should be disarmed & sent under a Guard. If you will have occasion for the Assistance of the Militia you will please to give the intelligence.
Page 60
60 PENNSYLVANIA ARCIIIWES 1783. I am informed that about forty men have joined the others since Saturday. I desire that these Men may be instantly disarmed, & ordered instantly to quit the City & its neighbourhood, & to repair to their respective Homes. I am with the greatest Esteem, Sir, your most obed’t serv't, JOHN DICKINSON. June 26th, 1783. Coll. Humpton. Indorsed, On Tuesday, the 24th of June, I rec'd a note from the President of Congress between 3 & 4 o’Clock—that note adjourned the Con- gress to meet at Princeton on the Thursday following. Tuesday night we kept guard at the Bank on Intelligence rec'd that it was to be attacked by the soldiers. Genl. Irvine & myself up all night; Genl. Ewing indisposed. On Wedn'y Evening the soldiers paraded before my House— were addressed in obedience to orders, put themselves under the command of their officers, & retired peaceably to their Quarters in the Barracks. On Thursday, at 12 o’Clock, the soldiers from Lancaster submitted to Command, & that Evening began their March to Lancaster under their officers. M. L. PREs. DICKINSON TO PREs. OF CONGRESS, 1783. Sir, The Minister of France, who has been a witness of the last transactions of this Day, has obligingly offered to convey to Con- gress my account of their happy conclusion. He is now waiting to receive it in my House, and that Circumstance with the great Fatigues I have lately undergone, having been up all the last night, will, I hope, apologize to Congress for this short & imperfect Dispatch. This Day, about twelve o’Clock, Council received from the Com- mittee of officers appointed by the Soldiers in the Barracks, their requests, attended with a Petition of pardon from Council for their misbehaviour. As their proposals contained no submission to Congress, Council unanimously informed those of the Committee who attended, that we should not take their proposals into consideration, unless they !
Page 61
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 61 should first make a full and satisfactory submission to Congress, and we directed the attending members of their Committee to com- municate this unalterable Resolution of Council to them. This was immediately done, and at the same moment Orders were issued by Council for a Guard of five hundred men to be im- mediately assembled, and for the Militia of the City and Neigh- bourhood to hold themselves in readiness for action on the shortest notice, having received intelligence that an attack upon us was intended this afternoon. The negociation for the desired submission was continued, and with the prudent and highly commendable management of Colonel Humpton so well conducted that six of the leading Serjeants among the Soldiers first attended me, submitted and impeached two officers, a Mr. Carberry, deranged, and a Mr. Sullivan. Colonel Humpton and a number of Citizens then repaired to the Barracks, and this afternoon, just at Dark, all the Soldiers, except some of those lately from Lancaster, appeared without their arms before my House. I then addrest them, reminded them of their unprecedented and henious faults—approved the Evidence given of their dutiful dispo- sition—insisted on their instantly putting themselves under the command of their officers, and yielding to them a proper obedience —that as a stronger proof of the Disposition mentioned, they should at the end of twenty-four Hours use their arms to reduce the Sol- diers who lately came from Lancaster to obedience, unless in that time they should of themselves return to obedience and put them- selves on their march for that Town under the command of such of their Officers as should be in this City, in which service the Militia should co-operate with them. - The Soldiers being dismissed were ordered to retire to their quar- ters in the Barracks under the Command of their Officers, & they instantly obeyed. I am informed by Officers in whom I am per- suaded I may confide, that the Mutiny is supprest, except among some of the Lancaster Soldiers. I told the others, that in Consequence of their good Behaviour I should recommend them to Congress for pardon—and I hope that they will act in such a manner as to obtain a Restoration to the favor of Congress.-I shall give orders for the apprehending of the two Officers. I am Sir, &c., &c., JOHN DICKINSON.” Philada., June 25th, 1783. Directed, IIis Excellency The President of Congress. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIII., p. 6 12.
End of Section 18. Continue to next section or 
Section 19
Page 62
62 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. PREs. DICKINsoN To PREs. of CoNGREss, 1783 Sir, - Yesterday Evening the Soldiers from Lancaster began their March for that Place, under the Command of their Officers. Those in the Barracks behave very quietly, & are desirous of being dismist. Colonel Humpton informs me that Letters were sent by the prin- cipal authors of the late Disturbance, to excite General Armand's Legion and Colonel Moylan's Regiment, to join in the Mutiny. The present Disposition of those Troops I know not; But I expect to receive immediate advice of any movement of Importance among them, which I shall communicate to Congress. I am Sir, your very h’ble servt., JOHN DICKINSON, Philadelphia, July 27th, 1783. Mr. Thomson, who does the Honor of charging himself with the Letter, will deliver to Congress a Copy of the last proposals of the soldiers to Council, & of the Act of Council thereon. His Excellency, the President of Congress. LIEUT. Col. A. S. DEPEYSTER TO MAJOR DOUGLAS, 1783. Detroit, June 29th, 1783. Sir, Your letter addressed to Mr. Elliot has been brought in here open by an Indian, & delivered to me. I therefore dispatch Mr. Elliott into the Indian country to meet you & conduct you to this place. I desire therefore for your own safety that you may not enter into any negotiations with the Indians till your arrival here, where a Gen'l Council with the Chiefs of the several Nations is at present called, therefore any deviation from the measures already taken may be detrimental to the whole. I am, Sir your most obed. Servt., A. S. DEPEYSTER, Lieut. Col., Commanding Detroit. Major Douglass. (Copy.)
End of Section 19. Continue to next section or 
Section 20
Page 63
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 63 Sec'y ARMSTRONG TO THE SHERIFFs, 1783. S Philadelphia, July 30th, 1783. 1r, I have the directions of Council to desire you forthwith to take effectual measures for apprehending and securing a certain Nagel, late Serjeant of the third Pennsylvania Regiment, who, it is said, is gone from hence to the County of Berks. He is charged with having excited the late disturbances among the Soldiery in this City. Council depend much on your exertions in this Business, and request you to conduct it with as much secrecy as possible; should he be so fortunate as to secure him, you will immediately inform Council thereof, when they will take further order respecting him. I am, Sir, your obedient & very humble servt., JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. To the Sheriff of the County of Berks. A similar Letter written to the Sheriff of the County of Berks to apprehend Captains Henry Carberry and James Sullivan of the Penna. Line. CoNFERENCE witH INDIANs, 1783. A Council held with the Chiefs & Warriors of the Six Nations & their Confederates at the Council Fire kindled at the Onondago Set- tlement. Iosioha, July 24, 1783. Present. Lieut. Coll. Butler. Bowen, Lieutenants, Docksteder, Jacob Servois. Mr. Wilkinson, Sec'y. Mr. N. Stephens, Interpreter. " Abeel, a Seneca Chief, spoke as follows: Brothers, Two of our young men (Oneidas,) went from their Wil- lage without the advice of any of our Chiefs, to Canawarohare (a Willage settled by some Oneidas who have acted in favor of the Americans during this war) as a visit to their relations & acquaint- ances. Shortly after their arrival 40 of the Americans came to the same Village & informed they were on their way to view the 6 Nation Indian's Country & to build a House at Onondago for Gen. Schuyler. Next morning the Chiefs came and saluted the two young men in the usual manner, after which they expressed their sorrow that the Chiefs of the Six Nations did not attend a Council with Gen. Schuyler last spring, agreeable to his request. They then reported Gen. Schuyler's speech in Council as follows:
Page 64
64 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. Brothers, “I am directed by Congress to call you together & in- form you that Peace is at last agreed on between the Kings of Great Britain, France, Spain and the Americans. The great spirit above has helped & given us success, & with the assistance of France have conquered the King of England. We are now Masters of this Island & can dispose of the lands as we think proper or most con- venient to ourselves. That the King of England can never hereafter make the least claim to any part of it. At the commencement of this war many of our People left us, some went to Niagara & others to different places where the King's troops lay; these people have forfeited every part of their lands & property to us for so doing, which must be a convincing proof that we are the conquerors. At that time I requested the Six Nations to lay still & not interfere in this war; but no attention was paid to my advice, they therefore are now in the same situation with those people who left us, their lands forfeited in the same manner. As we are the Conquerors we claim the lands & property of all the white people as well as the Indians who have left & fought against us. We enquired of the King what he intended to do for the Indians, as we expected that he would have been very particular about them. He being the person who should have considered their situation; but the King answered, What can I do 2 Nothing ! You have conquered me therefore do with them what you please.” “However, it is not yet so bad with the Indians, as they can move across the Lakes, those parts still belong to the King. I desire you (the Oneidas) to acquaint the Chiefs, &ca., of the six Nations with what I have now said, and that they have no assist- ance to expect from either the King or Congress in future. All the upper Posts are now our property, and I expect to go in a short time to speak to the six Nation Indians, & should they not meet & give me full satisfaction between this place & Fort Stanwix on my way up I shall then prepare myself as a Warrior, proceed thro' their Country to humble their pride, & make them my prisoners, &ca. I shall look upon the Oneidas & Cayagas in a more favorable light than the other Nations, as two of the Cayagas have been with me during the war. The Six Nations must not by any means whatever, be stopt by Col. Butler, & should he at any time fall into our hands, he undoubtedly will be hanged.” When this speech was delivered to Brig. Gen M-Lean, he con- tradicted it flatly & declared to the Six Nations, that it was false & fabricated by some designing bad people—That he could assure them, such a speech never had been made by Gen' Schuyler, & that he never authorized any other person to make it for him; and he (Brigadier Gen M-Lean) could assure the Six Nations, the he did not believe the United States had any intention of driving the In- dians out of their Country, that being a measure contrary to their own interest, & that they were not to believe such idle stories, but shut
End of Section 20. Continue to next section or 
Section 21
Page 65
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 65 their eyes against such designing bad people; To listen only to what he would tell them, & he should always tell them the truth. Transmitted Gen. Schuyler, a copy of this from Albany of the 2" of August, 1783. E. DOUGLASS. (Copy.) SECR'y. ARMSTRONG To THOMAS Scott, 1783. Secº Office, Pa. Sir, By order of Council, I enclose a Copy of a letter lately received from the Governor of Virginia; as the trustees of the peace of Pennsylvania, & the rights of its Citizens, Council feel themselves obliged to attend to every complaint which may be offered against those who are entrusted with the execution of Her laws, however improper the character of complaint may be. It is the object therefore of this letter to enquire into the grounds of the charges exhibited by Mr. Harrisson, & to request your report upon the Sub- ject as soon ss possible. I am, Sir, with much Respect, Yours, &c. J. A., jº Sec'y. Indorsed, º 1783, July 2nd. SECR'Y. ARMSTRONG TO John LUKENs, S. G., 1783. In Council, July 2", 1783. Sir, In consequence of some late information that combinations have been formed in this City, & elsewhere to engross large tracts of the best part of that land which has been assigned by law for the re- demption of the depreciation certificates and plans have been laid to conceal the relative value of the lots, &c. to be laid out by you, &c., &c. I have the directions of Council to express at once their orders & desire that in the execution of your business all abuse of trust may be guarded against with the utmost care & assiduity, & that the late instructions of Council upon this subject be strictly adher'd to. I need not suggest how much the hopes, wishes & intentions of government would be defeated by a successful combination of this kind.
Page 66
66 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES I/83. There is a second point upon which Council have their apprehen- sions. Their information on this head is derived from the same source. It is this, that some arts will certainly be tried to lead the people whom you may employ in laying out this Country—to break in upon that tract, which has been set apart for the accommodation of the Troops. Should this be done, much uneasiness to the State & great injury to the Soldiery will follow—to prevent both it be- comes an object of much concern to Council, & a very important part of your business that the boundary as pointed out by law— should be defined with the utmost Care & precision. With much respect, Your Most Obd Hum. Servant, JNO. ARMSTRONG, jr., Jr., - Secretary. PREs. DICKINson To GEN. Howe, 1783. In Council, July 3, 1783. Sir, I am obliged to you for the politeness with which you have com- municated the order you have received, by your letter of yesterday, Your Character induces Council to rely upon the assurance given as to the Rule of your Conduct & of those under your Command. I am with the greatest & sincerest Esteem Sir, your most obedient & most humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Indorsed,—To Major Gen. Howe in Philada. PREs. DICKINSON To BRIG. GEN. IRVINE, 1783 In Council, July 3", 1783. Sir, We are obliged to you for the communication in your Letter of the 3" last; and have given such Instructions to the Surveyor Gene- ral, as we hope, will be of use, in preventing the Mischief appre- hended we wish to do every thing we can for the Benefit of the State, & for rendering Justice to the Officers & Soldiers; and, therefore should certainly appoint some Military gentlemen to 'act in Con- junction with the surveyor, if we had the power.
Page 67
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 67 The Measure would in all probability be advantageous; and we thould be pleased if your prudence would avail itself of your situa- sion, to secure the Pennsylvania Line against the Schemes of those projectors, who prefer their own gain to more generous Considera- tion. We should also be glad if you would procure due Care to be taken of the two Tracts appropriated to the State, and prevent the Timber from being destroyed. I am, Sir, with the greatest & Sincerest Esteem, your most obdº hble. Servº, JOHN DICKINSON. Indorsed, 1783, July 3rd. To Brig. Gen. Irvine, Com. at Fort Pitt. Gen. Irvine. SHERIFF of Bucks Co. To SECR'y. ARMSTRONG, 1783. Reading July 3, 1783. Sir, - Sheriff Kreamer being absent at a Considerable distance from Town when the Dispatches from you arrived; I judged it necessary as Deputy Sheriff to open them, and on his behalf acquaint you that Sergeant Nagle having been committed to the Gaol of this County, some days ago, by Justice Levan for boasting of his mutin- ous and Seditious, behaviour towards his Excellency the President and the honorable Congress, was this day delivered to Sergeant Beetle, who was sent for him by Col. Butler, who has taken him strongly hand-cuffed and under a Guard to Lancaster. I am, with great respect, Your obedient hum. Serv", PETER FILBERT. Directed,—(On public service.) - John Armstrong, Junº, Esq., Secretary to the Supreme Executive Council, Philad". & *
End of Section 21. Continue to next section or 
Section 22
Page 68
68 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. DAVID SPROAT TO PREs. DICKINson, 1783. New York, July 5th, 1783. Sir, Since my appointment to be Commissary of Prisoners your Excellency may easily be informed, that I have at all times contri- buted as much as it has been in my power to relieve their distress and make confinement as comfortable to them as possible. No fund being appropriated to furnish them with clothing, beding, &c., which they stood very much in need of; every Fall of the year, after making a requisition to the American commissary to supply them, I set a Subscription on foot to raise money for that purpose and never failed in procuring the sum wanted, untill last year Circumstances joined to prevent it. As no public charge was ever intended to be made, no particular account was ever kept of the individuals to whom the different articles were issued, some of the prisoners got more and others less according as their wants required, without regard to the Country or State they came from. In the Month of January last, after the prisoners had been chiefly supplied with their winter Clothing & beding, a Shallop arrived here from Philadelphia with about 180 Bls. of Flour and some potatoes, addressed to a Mr Robins of this place, with instructions to him to apply the proceeds in purchasing necessaries for the prisoners belonging, as he said to that State only. I expected that he wou'd have gone hand in hand with me in the business, however he has never paid me any part of that money which amounted to at least £800 the profits on which was sufficient to supply the whole of the Pennsylvania prisoners here at that time, but he objected to the greatest part of them, in particular to the whole of those taken in the S” Carolina who must have perished had I not supplied them, and they were chiefly belonging to your State, a circumstance which perhaps Mº Robins' constituents did not know when they gave him those orders. - Inclosed I send a Copy of the account by Mr Francis Gurney who has seen the vouchers and will explain the matter more fully to your Excellency who's known Character leaves no doubt with me, that you will be pleased to take such steps for my reimbursement, of the part you think equitable to pay, for the honor of the State over which you preside. With every sentiment of esteem and most perfect regard, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency's most obedient, humble Servant, DAVID SPROAT. Directed, His Exeellency Gov" Dickinson.
Page 69
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 69 DELEGATES IN CONGRESS To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Princeton, July 7, 1783. We have the honor to Acknowledge the receit of your Excel- lency's letter of the 5", and to transmitt herewith, the papers you require. The paragraph you are pleased to particularize in the Report of the Committee appears to want precision, & to be Capable, of a construction, which we really believe was not Intended. We will move such an amendment as will better Express the fact, & what we conceive to be the Intention of the Committee; & we have not the Smallest doubt but Congress will agree it. If there are any other papers, that Council may think necessary, they will please to Signify their pleasure to us, & we shall think it our duty to procure them, & to Communicate every material transaction that Occurs during our attendance here. We are with Great Respect, yº Excell” mºthble. Serv", THOS. FITZSIMONS, JOHN MONTCOMERY. CoL. RICH. BUTLER TO PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Lancaster, july 9", 1783. Sir, I have recº a letter of the 34 Inst., from Major General Howe directing returns of the troops here, those furlough" provisions & since the mutiny with orders to re-call those who were concerned in the troubles & to take back their furloughs; This I apprehend will be difficult, they being Scatter" into so many different parts of the country but as it is an order from a Superior, however impolitick it may be, I shall endeavour to execute it. I have had Sergeant Nagle bro’t from Reading by three of the Active mutineers, who I sent for him, two others of the princples & one Abettor, are in this town gaol in Irons, another capital fellow one Smith, who assumes the title of a Serjeant, a british deserter, is still about the city. I think him a very proper object for punish- ment and refer to your Excellencys opinion the propriety of ad- vertising him, inclos" is his description & the deposition against Serjº Nagle. I have wrote Gen. Sº Clair respecting a tryal. I have felt a little uneasy at the Congressional reflections on the State, hope when they cool they will think better of the State of Penns". I have the honor to be Sir, with the greatest respect & Friendship, your Excellencys most Obd Hub. St., R. BUTLER, Coll, 3°, P. B. Comdg. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President. Vol. X.-4
End of Section 22. Continue to next section or 
Section 23
Page 70
70 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. BRIG. GEN. McLEAN To M. Douglass, 1783. (Copy.) Brigadier Gen. McCean presents his compliments to Mr. Doug- lass, and Cap Macully, & requests the favor of their company to dinner to-morrow at three O'Clock. A verbal message by the Servant will be sufficient. The Brigadier will be much obliged to Mr. Douglass, if he will be so good as to send him to-morrow a copy of his instructions, & of the resolve of Congress to be transmitted to the Commander in Chief in Canada to facilitate business. Sunday Evening, 13° July, 8 O'Clock. EPHRAIM Douglass, To GEN. McLEAN, 1783. (Copy.) Niagara, 16th July, 1783. Sir, After having already so fully communicated to you my instruc- tions from the Sec, at War. The resolve of Congress whereon they are founded—my wishes in obedience to these instructions & my earnest desire of having an opportunity of communicating them to the Chiefs of the Indian Nations, a repetition of any part thereof would now be as useless as improper; but that my character may be defended from the imputation of irresolution, negligence or want of alacrity in the execution of my duty, I take the liberty to request that you would favor me in writing with your reasons for declining to suffer me to assemble the Chiefs, and to make known to them the message I am charged with by the United States: And from the personal civilities I have already received, as well as from my opinion of your character, I flatter myself you will readily grant me this request. I am, with all possible respect Sir, Your most Obed. Servant, EPHRAIM DOUGLASS. Hon'ble Brig. Gen M-Lean, Commands at Niagara.
Page 71
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 71 GEN. McLEAN To MAJoR Douglass, 1783. Niagara, 16th July 1783. Sir, I am favored with your letter of this date, in answer to which, I am to inform you that it is my wish, & ought to be that of every honest man to promote friendship, cordiality and reconciliation between the subjects of great Britain and the citizens of the United States and that I shall for my part always follow that rule—You Sir, have been so obliging as to deliver me a copy of your Instructions together with the resolve of Congress, upon which they are founded & I should have been happy to have had it in my power to comply with your wishes but circumstanced as I am in a subaltern station it was out of my power, until I had received the orders of the Commander in chief. My sentiments on that head, I had the honour to communicate to General Lincoln Secretary at War to the United States, by a letter dated 16th of May, last. An additional reason that weighed greatly with me, and rendered it impossible for me to admit the publication of your instructions, was, that part of them were conceived in terms that I judged to be unnecessary, if not improper, and must have been a reflection on any British Officer that would give his consent to their being published. I apprehend Congress to be unacquainted with the situation in which I stand with respect to Indians, there are 3,000 of them victualled here daily; these, in fact, are a part of this Garrison, as to provision & cloathing—and the impression that the communicating your instruc- tions to them; would (in my opinion) bring on disputes that might be disagreeable to the service & the troops under my command, & for which I should be justly blamed, till I had received the sanction of the Commander in Chief. The pacific disposition of the United States to the Indian Nations, I communicated to them, when I received Gen’l Lincoln's letter, & I shall repeat it by the Super- intendant immediately—you are now acquainted with the pacific, disposition of the Indians & I can assure you, there is nothing they wish for with greater anxiety, than peace and friendship with the United States. They have fore some time past been greatly alarmed at the several severe messages said to be sent them from Albany, but I have endeavored to quiet their apprehensions on that score. I cannot conclude without declaring, that in my humble opinion Con- gress could not have employed any Man better qualified than your- self for carrying on a negotiation with the Indian Nations & I greatly lament for the reasons I have mentioned, that it is out of my power to act otherwise than I have done, until I have the authority of my superiors, which I shall transmit by a flag of Truce to the State of New York, the moment I receive them. - I have the honor to be &", ALLAN MACLEAN. Directed,—To Ephraim Douglass, Esqr. (Copy.)
End of Section 23. Continue to next section or 
Section 24
Page 72
72 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. DELEGATES IN CoNGRESS TO PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Princeton, July 16, 1783. Sir, , The Letters with which the Delegates were honored respecting the farther Proceedings relative to the Mutineers were duly received & the Enclosures communicated to Congress. Your Excellency's Explanation of your Conduct in opposition to the Misrepresentations contained in Serjeant Nagle's Deposition has also been laid before Congress. The Papers your Excellency wishes to have furnished cannot be found at present in the Secretary's Office. A further Search will be made & if more successful the Papers shall be sent. It is presumed Council have the originals of which it is conceived only copies were transmitted. I have the Honour to be with great Respect & Esteem your very obd. Servant, RICHARD PETERS. Directed, - To His Excellency President Dickinson. ExTRACTS FROM A Letter, 1783. Pittsburgh, July 18th, 1783. Sir, I take the earliest opportunity of informing you & Council of some designing People in this Quarter, in raising disturbances amongst the Ignorant People, viz. * x × >k × xy I am informed that they have Reported, that there is a Remon- strance laid before the Assembly of Virginia, to have an appeal to Congress in regard to the boundary lately agreed on Between this State and that of Virginia, & to have commissioners reappointed to Run a Line agreeable to the Meanders of the Delaware, that the Line is not finally settled & that by taking the Line in the manner mentioned it would be much in favour of the State of Virginia & the People who would wish to live out of the State, by spreading these Reports it creates an uneasiness amongst those People who would be fond to take hold of any thing that would offer to Screen them- selves from the Law of this State, Council well knows that these People have always been dissaffected to this Government, some effectual steps ought to be taken to fix the boundary finally, other- wise, we shall always be troubled with these kind of People, if you should think that the hint I have given will be off service, you'll excuse me for troubling you with this Letter, & I shall be happy in having it in my power to serve the State. x x x º
End of Section 24. Continue to next section or 
Section 25
Page 73
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 73 GEORGE BRYAN TO PREs. DICKINson, 1783. 22d July, 1783. Sir, I attended carefully to the enquiry which your excellency was pleased to reccommend to me yesterday. Upon going to the Cor- roner's house, which is nigh to mine, I learned from Mrs. Rush, that he had held an inquisition on the body of Molineaux, lately killed in a violent manner. This morning Mr. Rush, himself was with me. He represents the affair as follows; that about ten in the Evening, two persons were passing thro Cedar Street near the wharf, when one of them heard a cry, near by “I am stabbed;” that he immagined that it was the voice of his companion, & interfering, layed hold of a man, two others running off at same time clad in short cloathes like seamen; that his Companion asked him “what are you about 7” To which the other said, “I thought you were stabbed” “No, was the reply, I am safe,” Upon which the prisoner was let go. The saylors as they seemed to be, went down street towards the wharf. Molineaux never spoke afterwards, but died in 5 or 6 minutes. The Coroner further tells me, that he introduced the Evidence to the Chief Justice, lest he might be blamed for the darkness of this homicide, which perhaps will never be explained. Shall I presume to hint to your Excellency, that in such cases rewards have sometimes brought forth witnesses. In this case, it might shew a laudable exertion in the Executive power to protect foreigners of whatever nation; for I presume the deceased was a British Subject, besides the deed is in its nature highly mena- cing. But this Idea, I submit to your Excellency's better judgment, hoping you will excuse my mentioning it. I am may it please your Excellency your Excellencies, most obed’t hum Servt, GEO. BRYAN. P. S. I should have done myself the honour of waiting on you in person this morning, had I not taken medicine for my cold. Directed To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq. Pres, of the State of Pennsylvania. * See Proclamation in Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 629.
Page 74
74 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. ELIAS BoudLNOT TO PREs. DICKINsoN, 1783. Princeton, 26 July, 1783. Dear Sir, I have the honor of inclosing your Excellency the copy of a pri- vate letter I lately received from a Member of Congress, while in your City. I inclose it for your information, as I think # * * being the confidential friend of Carberry & Sullivan, may be likely to know more of their Schemes than any other person. I have the honor to be, with great respect, your Excellency's Obed & very humb. Serv", - - ELIAS BOUDINOT. Directed,—His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., Presid. &c., of Pennsylvania. Elias Boudinot. Philadelphia, 17 July, 1783. Sir, - I dined yesterday at Bristol in company with a Mr. * * * of Chester, who informed me that it was to his house Carberry and Sullivan came when they fled from the City, Carberry being an old acquaintance of his. That they made him acquainted with their situation, and told him they put their lives in his hands, and that he must shelter them till they could make their escape. That he informed them of a British Ship, outward bound then lying in the River, and, at their desire, went on board and applied for a pas- sage for them. That the Captain informed him that the Births were taken up, and he could not receive them unless the passengers con- sented. That no objections being made, the two men left his house & went on board about 12 o'clock in the night of the same day they came down. He informed me they came on Horse back, and brought a black boy with them to take the horses back. * * * gives Carberry a very good name, but says Sullivan talked in a strange way—that he took him to be in liquor—that he had a pair of loaded pistols with him and swore he never would be taken alive—that if it was attempted he would shoot somebody with one of the pistols and with the other blow his own brains out. This is the best account I have heard of the escape of these men, and I communicate it to your Excellency, rather with a desire of satisfying you, as to the manner of it, than from an expectation that such information will be of use to the Public. * * * who assisted them, does not seem conscious of having done wrong. How far he is culpable by the laws of the State, I cannot undertake to say. I ain, &c., E. Me 3 + +

Page 75
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 75 PROVINCE ISLAND Hospital, 1783. Sir, The Trustees of the Province Island, otherwise State Island, have appointed Nicholas Fitzsimons to be keeper of the Hospital there.— Colonel Bayard, who is gone out of Town, has good recommenda- tions of him. It is hoped he will execute the trust with satisfaction to the honorable Board. We are Sir, Your most obd. Servants, GEO. BRYAN. ROBERT KNOX. Philadelphia, 26* July, 1783. Directed, To Mr. Secretary Armstrong. CoM. OF TAXES OF Bucks Co. To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Bucks County, July 31", 1783. Sir, - This acknowledges the Receipt of a Letter from Mr. Secretary, dated the 24th Instant, together with the Duplicate of another of the 20th of May last, respecting the arrearages of Taxes in this County, particularly those of the class and effective Supplies. In answer thereto we would wish to assure the Honorable Council, that we have not been inattentive to their Notices on this Subject; knowing also the Demands of the Law therein, as well as the public Necessities, we have constantly endeavoured to fulfil our Duty; And though our Exertions have not had the desired Effect in its fullest Extent, we yet trust, & have good Reason to believe, that, generally through the County our Success has been equal to the Abilities of the People. The War left them poor and since its Conclusion they have not had Time nor wherewith to enrich themselves. In this Sense we humbly conceive its Effects do still operate. . Notwithstanding these Considerations we have urged them hard; the Collectors have been notified often, threatened and summoned to answer for Delin- quency—their Plea constantly is an absolute scarcity of Money; in- somuch that when they distrain for Tax, they cannot sell, especially where the Goods belong to the Persons who used to pay freely when they could; and in Case of Sale, that the Purchasers themselves are often unable to make immediate Payment, though Owners of considerable Estates. Knowing, or at least believing from our own Observations and Experience, that these Pleas were just, we have indeed thought it hard and impolitic to execute the Rigours of the Law upon the Collectors; and though some of them may have possibly abused the Lenity shown them, either by Remisness, or an appropriation of the public Monies to their own Purposes, we do not know it, & hope there are but few such.
Page 76
76 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. Having given your Excellency and Council the Causes which retard the Collection of the Taxes, in this County, which proceed from the Scarcity of money; we beg leave to mention another very disagreeable one, and that is a Difficulty of procuring Collectors, owing principally to the Insults and Abuses of a Band of Robbers, who infest the Middle and upper Parts of the County, and who have robbed us of large Sums, which by the Way makes our arrears much greater than otherwise they would appear. Men think an Appointment of this kind hard in those Parts, as it exposes their Persons and Properties to certain Danger, against which they have it not in their Power to guard. They consider the Latter, in some- Sort as doubly at Stake—liable to be carried off or destroyed by the Hand of Violence in Part, and to make good out of what shall re- main, the Loss of any public Money of which at the same Time they may be deprived. These with other obvious Considerations, arising from the Poverty of the People, induce many to choose a Fine rather than the Office. New Appointments are made, but Time lost. But not to trouble your Excellency and Council too much, we would just represent further, that from the Information of our County Treasurer, he has paid into the State Treasury, what he thinks our full Quotas of the Class Taxes and Supplies for the Year 1781, taking into the Account the Sums lost by Robbery as afore- said, and those paid by him to Pensioners within the County. With Respect to the Supplies for 1782, we must acknowledge the County largely in Arrear, having yet paid on Account thereof, but about £9024, and of the Supplies for 1783, nothing is yet collected. Nevertheless Justice to ourselves induces us to repeat that as Com- missioners, we have not been wanting in our Exertions to obtain speedy Collections, and Respect to the Supreme Executive of the State, superadded to every other just Consideration, directs us to assure the Honorable Council that these Exertions shall be con- tinued. For the further Information and Order of Council therein, there will be delivered herewith, the examination of sundry Persons respecting some late Robberies. We are Sir, with the greatest Respect, your Excellency's, and the IIon” Councils, humble Servants, SAML. SMITH, FRANCIS MURRAY. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the State of Pennsylvania, in Council.
Page 77
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 77 JAcob SMYSER TO PREs. DICKINsoN, 1783. Yorktown, August 5th, 1783. Sir, A Letter from Council dated May the 20°, very lately came to our hands, which urged us to sue a Number of Collectors, but am made sensible of the Distreses of our Inhabitants. Upwards of two hundred Head of Cattle have perished last Spring in this County, the Crops failed and the Inhabitants dis- tressed to no little purpose. The Letter of July the 24th seems very feeling and threatning, and if closely pursued ruinous to our County, few Individuals could Escape the Goal, money has no Circulation with our Inhabitants, as it can have in other more Populous Places. We have taken every Necessary Step to Discharge the Supplies in Arrear, and find it very distressing, and still not Satisfactory to our Expectations. The Mildew and hail hath destroyed many fields of Grain in this County this Year, which is still more threatning to us; and Collectors have already brought Goods to town, upward of twenty miles, on which they have distrained for the discharge of the Taxes, and met with little encouragement of the Sale. Our Treasurer intends going to Philadelphia in a very short time, who will give a very Satisfactory Accº. I am with Respect Sir, Your Excellency's most Obedient & Hble, Serv", JACOB SMYSER. Directed, To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr., Presd' of the Supreme Executive Council of Philadelphia. PREs. DICKINSON TO COUNCIL, 1783. Sir. . i am not able to attend Council to-day, being a good Deal indis- osed. p May it not be proper to send a Copy of Governor Harrisons last Letter & Inclosure, to the prothonotary of Washington County, with Directions to communicate it immediately to all the Judges, Justices & Officers of Distinction in that County, and to report to Council with all possible Dispatch, the particular Circumstances relating to the Cases of Campbell, Cox, & the Militia Officers, mentioned in the proceedings of the Virginia Assembly. - I am, Sir, your most obdº serv", - - JOHN DICKINSON. -- Thursday Morning. Directed,—Gen'. Ewing. - Indorsed.—Aug. 7, 1783. * An extract was sent, the letter not found, nor is it printed, See Col. Rec. Vol. XIII. p. 639. 4+
End of Section 25. Continue to next section or 
Section 26
Page 78
78 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. SECR'Y. ARMSTRONG TO PROTHONOTARY OF WASHINGTON. County, 1783. 7th Aug', 1783, Secretary’s Office. Sir, Enclosed is an extract from a second letter lately received from the Governor of Virginia, upon the subject of our laws & their Ex- ecution in that tract of Country, which has been ceded to us by the agreement of the 31st of August, 1779. It came accompanied by a resolution of their last Assembly—a copy of which is also en- closed. It is the desire of Council that you will communicate these papers to the Magistracy of your County & report to me with all possible dispatch, the particular circumstances which attended the cases of John Campbell, Col. &c., &c. I am Sir, &c., JOHN ARMSTRONG, jr. Secretary. Prothonotary of Washington County. SEc'Y ARMSTRONG TO THos. Scott, &c., 1783. Secretary's Office, Philadelphia, August 7", 1783. Sir, Inclosed is an Extract of a second Letter lately received from the Governor of Virginia, upon the subject of our Laws & their Execu- tion, in that disputed Tract of Country which has been relinquished to us by the agreement of the 31* of August 1779. It came accom- panied by a Resolution of their Assembly, a copy of which, together with a copy of the Ratification of the agreement aforesaid by our Assembly, on the 23° of Sept", 1780, is inclosed. It is the Direc- tion of Council, that you will immediately communicate all these Papers to the whole Magistracy of your County, informing them, that it is the firm & unanimous Resolution of Council, as they are convinced it is of our Gen.' Assembly, to adhere inviolably to the Stipulations contained in the agreement between the two States, that they expect the Magistracy and all well disposed persons who regard the Honor or peace of the State will also punctually observe the said Stipulations, & strictly require the same attention to them from others. - Council are of opinion, that no persons holding Civil or Military offices under the State of Virginia, should be in any manner molested for regular acts done by them in either of those capacities in pursu-
End of Section 26. Continue to next section or 
Section 27
Page 79
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 79 ance of the Laws of that State prior to the agreement before men- tioned. You will please to report to Me with all possible Dispatch the particular Circumstances attending the cases of John Campbell, Lieut. Coll. Coxe, & others alluded to in the inclosed Resolution. I am, &c., J. A., Jr., Secº". Indorsed, August 9°, 1783. To Thomas Scott and Michael Huffnagle, Esq.”. Governor OF SOUTH CAROLINATO PRES. DICKINSON, 1783. (Circular.) Government House, Si Charleston, Sº Carolina, 13” August, 1783. Ir The Legislature of this State, having desired me to write to the several Governors of the United States, requesting that they would be pleased to furnish me with a list of the names of those Persons, who, have been proscribed or banished from their respective States; I therefore to that end, now do myself the Honour of addressing this my circular to you, and will be much obliged to you for your An- swer of Compliance with the said Request, as soon as may be conve- nient, that I might lay the same before them at their next sitting. I have the Honor to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most Obedient, and very Hbble Servº, BEN. GUERARD. Directed, His Excellency the President of the Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. CoMMISSSIONERS OF CUMBERLAND COUNTY TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1783. Carlisle, August 14", 1783. Sir Werce' your late letter with a former one inclosed urging the Pay- ment of Public Taxes of our county, previous to which we have wrote * Rough draft in writing of Pres, Dickinson, see answer, page 80.
Page 80
80 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. and otherwise pressed the Collectors of the different Townships to their duty and have sued several of them. We are convinced of the necessity of raising the public taxes and beg leave to assure your Excellency that it is neither inattention in us or want of reflection on the important subject that makes an apology for our Conduct necessary. With us the arguments derived from the effects of the War doth not altogether cease to operate altho of late labour hath its price. The Farmer (who hath been frequently called from his Family to Military Service and unable to obtain Labourers to culti- vate his Farm) cannot consistant with his labour make money of his present Crop before he hath put in his Seed. We believe the Peo- ple in our County in General have a disposition to pay the Taxes as far as in their power could they be indulged with time to raise it out of their produce notwithstanding the difficulty they labor under for want of circulating Cash—Collectors have Distrained and Could not sell any property for want of Buyers, some persons indeed who have demands on the Public think it very hard to pay taxes while large sums are due them. We Humbly submit these remarks to your Excellency's Consideration and Hopefor indulgence from the Honora- ble Council, untill the people have time to carry what they can spare of their produce to Market and in the mean time we will not fail to use our Influence in raising the taxes of our County. We have the honor to be with all due respect, your Excellencies Most obed & Hºle Serv", JOHN º Com” SAM. LAIRD, - Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the Su- preme Executive Council, Philadelphia. Fav" by Stephen Duncan, Esq. Indorsed, August 18*, 1783. Letter from Comm'rs of York County. THos. Scott To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Washington County, August 15", 1783. May it please your Excellency: I have received Councils Sundry letters inclosing copys of papers lately received from the Governor of Virginia”, and in obedience to the orders of Council, beg leave thereupon to report: * See page 79, also Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 672.
Page 81
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 81 | That I know of no departure from the Compact between the two States, and believe there has been none on the part of the Court of this County. That I know of no measure adopted by this state, or any of its officers, whereby the rights of the late Citizens of Virginia are in any degree Infringed upon; were those rights which they are said to have held, and whereof, they are said now to be deprived, ex- plicitly mentioned, perhaps I would be able to give some satisfaction. That I conceive the infringment on landed property stated in the memorial, could not possibly happen without act of the Legislature; if the case of M" Campbell be meant by this suggestion, I know nothing of it further than that he hath been prisoner with the Indians for some years past, and may have missed of Ingrossing large quantities of land at a low price, by Commissioner Certificates; some other of the Inhabitants of Washington County have likewise missed of that opportunity, by means as little Criminal, and I could wish to see the whole relieved, and put on an equal .# The case of Col. Cox is shortly thus, prosecutions were Instituted against him for assaults and batteries in useing compulsory measures to draw forth the Militia of Washington County, By Virtue of orders issued by Col. Penticost in Character of Lieutenant of Youghagania county, for the Service of Gen Clarks expedition down the Ohio in 1781. Which orders, as well the people who were thus compelled to service, as the Generality of the people of the county could not conceive to have proceeded from the authority of Virginia; not only because of the previous agreement of the Several Legislatures, but from the orders Given by that state on that occa- sion, to the Lieutenant of Monangohola county: Viz. that he should confine his authority to the South side of Dixon's & Measons Line Extended, although the Greater part of that county lay North of that line; on this Ground as well as on full conviction of the Legal extention of the Jurisdiction of this State, the people very Generally disobeyed those orders, and these prosecutions were com- menced. This being the true State of this Gen. Case, and although his conduct on the ocasion was exceedingly disrespectful to the court, He coming at the head of a party in a Tumultious & contemptuous Manner, continuing about the Streets in that manner until evening, and the same night an attempt was made upon the house in which the court was held, and part of it Thrown down; yet so far was personal resentment and party Spirit from mingling with the proceedings of the Court, that a disposition to soften the prosecu- tions was observable in most of the officers, and Col' Cox was ac- tually acquited. How this Can be termed a Judgement against him for a Considerable sum, &c., I cannot understand. It is true that on account of his behaviour already mentioned, I charge him Clarks fees. There was Indictments against one other Gen' who was also acquited and discharged with out fees; and there is a Suit depend-
End of Section 27. Continue to next section or 
Section 28
Page 82
82 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. ing against two others for things of the same nature, done at the same time; But there never was a decision of Court against any Virginia officer, as such, for any cause whatever. I Have the Honor to be, Your Excellenc' Very Humble Servant, THOS. SCOTT, - Proty of Washington County. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President, &c. CoMMIS'RS OF TAXES OF LANCASTER, Co. To CouncIL, 1783. Lancaster, August 16th, 1783. Gentlemen, We received your Letters of the 24th July last, setting forth the necessity of collecting the several Taxes the Demands we are per- swaded are pressingly great, and previous to your Letter we have done every thing in our power (excepting putting the Law in force,) to have the out standing Taxes collected, But there is a difficulty arrising in collecting that we are at a loss how to advise in—Some People have the money by them and those for the most part have never give themselves much concern about the Time of payment. Others have it not and has appropriated a great part of their Time in serving the public and have little or nothing left but public Certificates or unsettled accounts, and appear but just beginning the World anew. This latter Class Humanity would advise forbearance, and how to discriminate is difficult and perhaps dangerous, If People could be so good natured as to lend Money to those that wanted, The Taxes might soon be paid. But those who can spare Money do not like to risk it especialy to those who have been most active in the service of their Country. However we still hope that as a Remarkable Providence has car- ried us through a greater Difficulty than this, we are in the greatest hopes that er'e long we will be able to comply with what is required of us. We are Gentlemen with much respect your obedient and very humble Servants, SAM. BOYD, WILLIAM SMITH. Directed, To John Armstrong, Esq., Secº to the Executive Council, Philadelphia.
End of Section 28. Continue to next section or 
Section 29
Page 83
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 83 Copy of REPORT of EPHRAIM Douglass To SECY. AT WAR, 1783. Princeton, 18th August, 1783. Sir, In obedience to the instructions you honored me with on the 5th of May last, I have used every endeavour in my power to execute in the fullest manner your orders, and give effect to your wishes; and though I have not had all the success I at first hoped, I flatter myself the following report will not only shew that I have attempted all in my power, but that essential good consequences may justly be hoped from my endeavours to obey your Commands. On the 7th of June, I left Fort Pitt and travelling about two hundred miles by the old trading path, arrived on the 16th at the Delaware & Huron settlements on the Sandusky River, but before I reached the Villages I fell in with two young Delawers who had known me formerly, appeared rejoiced to see me, and conducted me to the principal Town of that Tribe. Captain Pipe who is the principal man of the Nation, received me with every demonstration of joy, welcomed me in the most friendly manner and treated me with greater Civility than is usual with them in time of profound Peace. In a speech of gratulation which he delivered on my arrival, he felicitated me and my Companions on our safety through a long & dangerous wilderness, and himself, on seeing his brethren of the United States once more enter his door in a peacable and friendly manner; but told me, as his Nation was not the principal one, nor *had voluntarily engaged in the War, it would be proper for me first to communicate my business to the Hurons and Shauneze, and afterwards to the Delawares. That he had announced my arrival to the Hurons, and expected such of them as were at home would very shortly be over to see and welcom me. This soon happened as he had expected, but as none of their Chiefs were present, I declined speaking publickly to them, knowing that I could receive no authen- tic answer, and unwilling to expend unnecessarily the Wampum I had prepared for this occasion. I informed them for their satisfaction of the peace with England, and told them that the United States were disposed to be in friendship with the Indians also—desired them to send for their head men, particularly for the Half King who was gone to Detroit; to send also to the Shauneze and such of the Six Nations and Delawares as live on the Miami River, and that when these were all present, I would deliver to them publickly the par- ticulars of the business I was charged with. They all readily agreed to this proposal, and returned to their homes apparently very well satisfied: but the Hurons nevertheless failed sending to Detroit, partly thro’ the want of authority in the old men present, and partly through the assurances of the Wife of
Page 84
84 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. the half King who was confident her Husband would be home in two Days, and therefore a journey which would require six or seven was altogether unnecessary. The Pipe sent away for those on the Miami agreeable to his promise, and learning that Mr. Elliot, one of the agents in the Indian Department resided with the Shawneze, and must neces- sarily be acquainted with my coming, I wrote to him by the Pipe’s Express, requesting him to concur with our Messenger in communi- cating to the Shawneze, that I was charged with a Message from the United States and desired them to attend as soon as possible— I also gave him an invitation to be present if he could make it con- venient. Though I promised to myself very little from this Letter, I knew it could do no possible harm—and though I did not hope he would give himself any trouble to serve me, I thought the possi- bility that the compliment of it might prevent his opposition worth the trouble of writing it. On the evening of the 18th, a runner arrived from the Miami with intelligence that Mr. Elliot had received dispatches from Detroit announcing the arrival of Sir John Johnson at that place— that in Consequence, the Chiefs and Warriors were desired to repair thither in a few Days, where a Council would be held with them. They were also directed to take with them the War or Tomahawk Belts, which had been delivered to them by the King to strike the Americans with. This was an intimation which had been long ex- pected but never till now received; for though they had been repeatedly forbid to continue at War against the Americans the Tomahawk had still remained in their hands, which is a deviation from the ancient Customs of the Indians, and therefore the more. astonishing to them. I perceived that this invitation would necessarily draw off a number of the principal men, but determined to wait the return of our Messenger before I would take any further resolution, and in this suspence I continued till the evening of the 22d, when he re- turned with speeches from the Chiefs in that Quarter, imparting that they had made every preparation for coming agreeable to our requests to hear what I had to say to them, but just when they were ready to mount their Horses, they were stopped by the arrival of ten men who preceded a body of sixty other Southern Indians coming upon business from the Nations North and East of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. That in consequence of their coming they would be obliged to delay their visit to us for a few Days, but would not fail to come so soon as they heard the business of these people, could not however determine how soon. - The intervention of this unexpected delay, the uncertainty where it would ſend—the anxiety of the Sandusky Indians to obey the summons from Detroit, the absence of the Half King who was now no longer expected till after the Treaty there, and the certainty of receiving no answer when he was not in Council, induces me to
Page 85
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 85 yield to the importunity of the Pipe, and attend to his representa- tions. He pressed me to accompany him to Detroit, assuring me that it would be useless to wait the coming of the Indians from the Miami, that they would spend their time in useless Counseling there till the Treaty at Detroit would come on, and that if I even could as- semble them I could obtain nothing from the Interview—That if the Half King was present he would not undertake to give me an answer without consulting the Chiefs of the Huron Tribe at Detroit, and that these would determine another without first asking the advice of their Father the Commandant. Finding that I had little to hope from continuing at Sandusky, and likely to effect as little by visiting the Miami if my Horses had even been able to have performed the Journey I determined to pro- ceed to Detroit by the nearest route, though I began to be doubtful I should not succeed in my wishes there; determined however to leave nothing unattempted which promised even a probability of success.-I concurred with the Pipe in a message to the Miami In- dians, desiring that rather than wait to hear the dispatches of these Southern Indians, they should advise them to continue their Journey to Detroit where they would certainly meet the Six Nations, to whom their business must be ultimately delivered, as the Deputa- tion in consequence of which they had performed so long and diffi- cult a journey, had originally proceeded from them—We desired them to send us an answer in three days what Resolution they would take and when we should meet them where the roads unite, that we might go together to Detroit. We waited till the 29* in hopes of receiving an answer but none came, 'tho we had several Messages, some intimating that they could not come over to us, and desiring the Hurons & Delawares to attend at the Shawnese Towns—other accounts said the Chiefs of that Nation were gone to Detroit. We now made every preparation for our departure, but fearing I might not again have so good an opportunity, I made use of this to give the Pipe every information respecting my business, and to explain to him the Preliminary Articles of peace, which I found had not only never been communicated to them by authority, but that the accidental information they had occasionally received had been in some respects contradicted by the Officers of the Crown; particularly that part which related to the evacuation of the posts on the Lakes. I left Sandusky on the 80* accompanied by the Pipe and two other Indians in addition to my former Companions, and travelled onwards to Detroit till the afternoon of the 1" of July when we were met by M. Elliot and three other persons from that place, whom the Commandant had dispatched for the purpose of conducting us thither. The Indians who had left the Towns after my arrival, had given the intelligence at Detroit, and the Letter I had written to Mr Elliot had also been carried there by some of those from the Miami. In
Page 86
86 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. consequence of this Col. Depeyster had sent M Elliot to me with a Letter No. 1.* I was now nearly half way from Sandusky to Detroit, and could neither take or alter a resolution in consequence of this Letter, but continued my journey with my new Companions—till the 4” when I arrived at Detroit, where I was received with much politeness and treated with great Civility by the Commandant, to whom I delivered your Letter, shewed your instructions and pressed for an opportu- nity of communicating them to the Indians as soon as might be. He professed the strongest desire of bringing about a reconciliation between the United States and the several Indian Nations,—declared that he would willingly promote it all in his power; but that until he was authorized by his Superiors in Command, he could not con- sent that any thing should be said to the Indians relative to the boundary of the United States; for though he knew from the King's Proclamation that the war with America was at an end, he had had no official information to justify his supposing the States extended to this place, and therefore could not consent to the Indians being told so; especially as he had uniformly declared to them, that he did not know these Posts were to be evacuated by the English. He had no objection, he said, to my communicating the friendly offers of the United States, and would chearfully make known to them the substance of your Letter to him. In the morning of the 5*, I received an intimation from Colonel Depeyster, through Captain M*Kee, that it was his wish I would go on to Niagara, so soon as I had recovered from the fatigue of my journey. In consequence of this I waited on him in the afternoon, and pressed with greater warmth than yesterday, the necessity of my speaking to the Indians and receiving an answer from them. I pressed him to suffer me to proceed on my business without his interference, and offered him my word that I would say nothing to them respect- ing the limits of the States, but confine myself to the offer of Peace, or choice of War, and the Invitation to Treaty. He would not retract his resolution without further orders from the Commander in Chief, and I was obliged to submit however unwillingly : But must do him the justice to acknowledge that he made every offer of civility and service, except that which he considered inconsistent with his Duty. On the 6* I attended the Council which Colonel Depeyster held with the Indians, to which he had yesterday invited me. After delivering his business of calling them together, he published to them your Letter and pressed them to continue in the strictest amity with the Subjects of the United States, represented to them the folly of continuing hostilities, and assured them that he could by no means give them any future assistance against the people of Ameria. At this meeting were the Chiefs of Eleven Indian Nations, com- prehending all the Tribes as far South as the Wabash. They were Chipewas, Otawas, Wyandots or Hurons, Shawneze, Delawares, * The papers referred to by Nos. have not been found.
Page 87
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 87 Kickaboos, Oweochtanoos, Miamis, Pootawotamies and Pienkishas with a part of the Senecas; most of whom gave evident marks of their Satisfaction at seeing a subject of the United States in that Country. They carried their civilities so far that my lodging was all day surrounded with crowds of them when at home, and the Streets lined with them to attend my going abroad; that they might have an opportunity of seeing and saluting me, which they did not fail to do in their best manner, with every demonstration of joy. On the morning of the 7th I took my leave of Colonel De Peyster, after having received more civilities from him than the limits of this report will suffer me to enumerate; but not 'till I had the honor of writing to you by my Guide, whom I directed to return to Fort Pitt so soon as the Pipe should be ready to return to San- duskey on whom I depended for his safe conduct thither, and to provide one to accompany him to Fort Pitt. I arrived at Niagara on the 11th, was introduced to General Maclean who was prepared for my coming, delivered him Colol. De Peyster's Letter and was received with every mark of attention but he declined entering upon any business this Day. * In the morning I waited again on the General at his request. He asked for my Instructions which I produced, and afterwards, at his request, the Resolve of Congress alluded to. He expressed an earnest desire that the Indians should live in peace with the United States, declared that he had most effectually put a stop to all hostilities, and had already given you this Information,-that he would be answerable for their future good conduct provided they were not molested by us—regretted that he had not at present such information from below as would justify his concurring with me, or even permiting me to call the Indians together—that he had every reason to expect Sir John Johnson very soon, who he supposed would bring such instructions as would remove every difficulty,+ that however he considered the purport of my message anticipated by the pains which had been taken to dispose the Indians to peace, which appeared to be the grand object of Congress. - In case Sir John did not arrive in two or three days as he ex- pected he proposed to me the alternative of continuing downward to the Commander in Chief or of furnishing him with Copies of my Instructions and the Resolve of Congress which he would transmit to him for his orders thereon. He lamented that mischevious people among us took too much pains to alarm the minds of the Indians in this quarter, by inventing and propapating speeches, which the Indians were taught to believe came from persons in power among the Aumericans. In proof of this he produced the pro- ceedings of a Council lately held with the Indians, which contains an alarming speech said to have been sent to them by General Schuyler. At my request he gave me a Copy of it with his own remarks at the bottom No 2. In conscquence of this specch and his assurances to the Indians,
Page 88
88 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. the six nations had sent to that part of the Oneida Tribe which had remained in the interest of the States, forbidding them to bring any future messages, but such as were written or otherwise visible in Belts or Strings. That they would be glad to hear in this manner whatever the United States had to say to them. Colonel Butler the Superintendant at the post was sent for and corroborated every thing that the General said of the peacable dis- position of the Indians, unless they were compelled to a contrary conduct by the Americans seizing on their Lands which both asserted the Six Nations would never quietly submit to. They recommended the measure of Congress sending some person to give them assurances respecting their Lands, if it was their intention to leave them to the natives, and the General offered to promote it with all his Interest, to be answerable for the safety of the Commissioners and also engage for the Indians good behaviour and willingness to meet the Com- missioners of Congress at any place after receiving such assurance. Captain Brant came from the Mohawk Willage to see me and was introduced by the General, in whose presence we had a conversation on the subject of the Indian's Lands—Brant insisted that they would make a point of having them secured before they would enter into any farther or other Treaty. In the evening I had a private con- ference with him at his own request in which I explained to him in the most circumstantial manner every thing relating to my business with the Indians and had a good deal of friendly argument with him on the subject, too long to insert here. On the evening of the 13th, I received a note from the General re- questing a Copy of my Instructions &c., to send to the Commander in Chief to facilitate business, No. 3. I sent him word that he should be obeyed, and early in the morning began to execute my promise, but before I had finished copying them, I received a verbal message that he wished to see me at his quarters. I finished the Copies and waited on him with them. He informed me that he had sent for me to show me the Copy of a Letter he was writiug to Colonel De Peyster. It contained instruc- tions to that Gentleman in consequence of my representations of the murders committed by the Western Indians in the course of the last spring, and since by his account, they had been positively forbid to be guilty of any such outrage. He pressed Colonel Depeyster very earnestly to examine minutely into this affair, to forbid the Indians in the most positive manner to be guilty of such future mis- conduct, to order them to deliver up immediately such prisoners as they had captured through the spring into the hands of him- self or his officers, and further to tell them that if they did not desist from these practices the British Troops would join the Ameri- cans to punish them. He afterward read me the Copy of a Letter which he had written you in answer to yours by Mr. Bull. Not doubting that this Letter is in your possession, I only mention it as it was the introduction
Page 89
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 89 to an address to me containing the same sentiments, which ended in an intimation that I might return home as soon as I thought proper, that whenever I pleased he would furnish me with a Boat & men to carry me to Oswego, would afford me every other assistance in his power and write to Major Ross the Commandant at that place to give me every assistance I should require. I soon concluded that this invitation to leave the place arose from the importunacy of the Indians to hear publickly the message which my coming had promised them, and his refusing permission to Captain Brant to take me on a visit to the Mohawk Castle convinced me of the justice of this conclusion, I employed such arguments as I expected would be most likely to prevail on him to permit me to speak to the Chiefs publickly before my departure, and answered (as I thought) all his objections, one of which was to that part of my instructions which said the King had been compelled to make peace, which he said would convey to the Indians the Idea of his being conquered, and might induce them to an insolence of behaviour that would become disagreeable to him and perhaps injurious to the service. To remove every exception on this head I offered to suppress the word compelled but he avoided giving me any direct answer to this proposal,—insisted much on the pacific disposition of the Indians, again pledged himself for their behaviour; assured me of their desire to cultivate the friendship of the Ameri- cans, and declared that he was authorized by the Chiefs to tell me so. He then informed me that previous to my arrival the Chiefs had applied to him to write to his Excellency General Washington on their behalf with offers of friendship, and regretted that he had not such orders as would justify him in doing it, especially before the Superintendant General had made the proper communications to the Indians on the part of the Crown. Frustrated in every attempt to obtain a public audience of the Indians and receive their answer to your message. I wrote to General Maclean on the 16th for his refusal in writing º 4) which he immediately gave me (No. 5) and on the same day I set off for Oswego, after having experienced from General Maclean every species of polite attention, except that which duty as well as incli- nation bid me most wish for and every civility from his Officers, and from the Officers in general at all the Posts I had occasion to visit. Sensible how difficult it is to say just enough on any subject, I am afraid I have protracted this report to too great a length and yet I suppressed so many remarks and conversations which were interesting at the time, that I am also afraid I have not been sufficiently explicit. I have confined myself to bare recital, without any commentary of my own, to avoid the imputation of obtruding opinion where it might be considered my duty to relate facts existing abstractedly. But I will hope your forgiveness for saying that the assiduity of the British Commanders to restrain the Indians from hostilities still wanted the yisit which by your command I have made them, to satisfy
Page 90
90 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. the Indians that they had nothing to fear from the enmity of tho States. They are now convinced from my risquing such a journey through their Country and from the communications I have made to them individually on my way, not only of our friendly Sentiments toward them, but also of our confidence in theirs, which must in some degree beget a similar confidence in them. And though I bring no public answer from the Chiefs, owing to the motives of duty or policy which opposed it. I think myself sufficiently authorized from the many opportunities I had of learning their Sentiments, both from themselves and the Whites who are in their confidence, to assert that I know them to be heartily tired of the war and sincerely disposed to Peace. - I have the honor to be, with the highest respect Sir, Your very humble and most obedient servant, EPHRAIM DOUGLASS. The Honble. Major General Lincoln, Secretary at War. Resolution of CoNGREss, 1783. By The United States in Congress Assembled, August 21st, 1783. Whereas it is stipulated in the 7th article of the preliminaries agreed upon the 30th Day of November, 1782, between the Pleni- potentiaries of his Britanic Majesty & of the United States, “that the King of Great Britain shall order and cause all Archives, records, Deeds and papers belonging to any of the said States or their Citizens which in the course of the War may have fallen into the hands of his Officers to be forthwith restored and delivered to the proper States and persons to whom they belong.” Resolved, That the Commander in Chief be directed to make ap- plication to his Britanic Majesty's Generals commanding at New York and Quebec for the immediate delivery to persons authorised to receive them, of all Archives, records, Deeds and papers belong- ing to any of the United States or to any of their Citizens which may have fallen into the hands of any of his Britannic Majesty's Officers during the course of the War. CHA. THOMSON, Secy. Indorsed, 1783 Pensylvania, August 21st, Resolution of Congress respec- ting delivery of Archives, Deeds, Papers &c", by the British Generals. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 681.
End of Section 29. Continue to next section or 
Section 30
Page 91
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 91 County Town of WESTMORELAND Co., 1783. Hannas Town, August 23d, 1783. Sir, We Received your kind favour of the 24th, April last & are much Obliged to you for your kind Instructions Respecting the Purchase of a Piece of Ground to build a Court House & Goal for the utility of the County. We the Subscribers Trustees for the County of Westmoreland, having met & upon the reconsidering the situation of the County, & having a due regard to those counties to be laid off, we do certify Hannas Town is the most Central & Conve- nient place for the holding the Courts of Judicature in the said County. Witness our Hands the day & year above Written. JOHN CAVET, JOSEPH ERWIN, ROB'T. HANNA, Trustees. Directed, To his Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, Pres'dt and the Su- preame Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. MEMORIAL OF MAJOR MICHAEL RYAN, 1783. May it please your Excellency, In January 1776, I received recruiting orders from Col. Wayne having had the appointment of Lieu’t in Cap’t Lacys company and Adjutant to the Reg't, The recruits I had raised I marched to Chester delivered them to the Commanding officer who ordered them to be bilitted on the Inhabitants, as we were not then furnished with Tents or Camp equipage. My duty as Adjutant engrossed my whole time and attention, consequently the Capt. 1st Lieu’t and Ensign commanded and regulated the Company; notwithstanding this I was served last Thursday at Chester with a Ca. Sa., oblig'd to pay £40 specie for the Soldiers Board or go to Goal. My situation was peculiar, on business of consequence from Alex" (where I now reside) to this City, one day's delay would have injured me capitally, I there- fore gave my note for that sum payable in one Month. I hope your Excellency will take this affair into consideration and not let me suffer unjustly as I can assure your Excellency that all the Money I received for 4 years service would not am to that sum in specie altho’ I was a slave to the Army from the commencement of the
End of Section 30. Continue to next section or 
Section 31
Page 92
92 - PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. War till I. resigned, having served as Adjutant, Brigade Major, Inspector of a Brigade, and Division &c. I have the honor to be - your Excellencys ob't Serv't, MICHAEL. RYAN. Phil'a Aug't 24th 1782. Directed, To Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., CoMMISSIONERS OF TAXES NoFTHAMPTON, Co. 1783. Easton, August 25th, 1783. Sir, Yours of July 24th, 1783, inclosing a duplicate of your Letter of May 20th, has been received—permit us to assure you that we received the Representations of Council on the Subject of the col- lection of taxes in this County with every mark of Respect, and paid every attention to them, that is due to that honorable Body.— No Exertions on our parts have been wanting; But the Arguments derived from the Effects of War, which you are pleased to say have hitherto been urged with great plausibility, do not yet cease to operate. We sincerely rejoice at the prospect we now have of soon enjoying the Blessings of peace, & we should be ungrateful indeed, if we did not cheerfully contribute all in our power to reward the brave & deserving Men who have contributed Eight years military Services to the Defence of their Country; but Money has not yet began to circulate at this distance from the Capital, & it is yet too early for the Inhabitants to have received any Profit from their late Harvest. It is Inability alone, & not a backwardness of Disposition that has prevented the payment of all we are in arrear. It is in vain to expose the Goods of the Inhabitants for Sale, for there are none to be purchasers. We know the Demand Government must at this Juncture have for Money, & we are anxious that the honor of Council & the State should be supported. Please to assure Council, we will exert ourselves to the utmost to have their Wish’s & Commands comply'd with, & we remain Sir, With much respect, Your obedient Hºle Servants, HENRY BANNETT, HENRY LAWALL, Commissioners North. County. Directed, (On Public Service.) John Armstrong, Jun', Esq., Sec'y to the Sup, Executive Council of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
End of Section 31. Continue to next section or 
Section 32
Page 93
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 93 John Nicholson To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Comptroller Generals Office, * Aug. 25", 1783. Sir, I beg leave to Request that an Order may be drawn upon the Treasurer in my favor for the sum of fifteen pounds specie to defray the Contingent Expenses of the Office, for which sum I will ac- Count. - I have the Honor to be, With Respect Sir, Your Most Obed. Humble Servant, JNO. NICHOLSON. Directed, His Excellº, The Presid., in Council. B. ShoeMAKER To WM. MooRE, 1783. I communicated your request to my Father respecting the Corpo- ration papers, &c., &c., early after my arrival in this City, who very chearfully consented to deliver them to any person properly authorised to receive them, and the more so, as having come to the resolution of embarking for England. It cannot after this determina- tion be attributed to those unworthy motives weh. his many kind offices to American naval prisoners and others during the last five years of the War, has been ungenerously imputed. I am with great Esteem, and Respect, &c. B. SHOEMAKER. New York, Aug 26, 1783. - Directed, William Moore, Esq., In Philadelphia. WARDENs of PhILADELPHIA To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. To His Excellency the President, and the Honourable Supreme Executive Council of the State Pennsylvania. The Wardens for the Port of Philadelphia beg leave to Inform that in Obedience to the Order of Council of the 10th June,f they Advertised in the several News Papers of this City, for all * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 671. # See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 595. Wol. X.-5.
Page 94
94 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. persons willing to Undertake the Removal of the Chevaux De Freize from the Chanel of the River Delaware, to send in their pro- positions by the first day of July last; we are sorry to say this mode had not the desired effect, as no proposals have been made. One man Indeed offered to Superintend the business for One Guinea tº Day, but as this was foreign to our Idea, of consequence, no Notice was taken of it. We further beg leave to inform that in Obedience to Request of Council of the 5th Inst. *we have employed Mess" Hazlewood & Joy to Make Out an Exact Survey of the bed of the River Delaware, from this City to the lowermost Part of Billings Port, so as to Include the Situation of the whole of the Cheveaux De Freize. This Business we Expect will be compleated early in the next week. - We are His Excellency's and the Councils Most Obº Hum” Serv", FRANS. GURNEY, JOSEPH BLEWER, JOS. DEAN. Wardens of P. Philad. Philad’, Aug 26th, 1783. JoHN NICHOLSON TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1783, Comptroller Generals Office. Aug', 26*, 1783. Sir, There are Applications Made to me by the Artillery Artificers under the Command of Capt” Wylie and Jordan for the gratuity of Nine pounds allowed by the Assembly to Retain soldiers per Resolution of the 8th March, 1781—a doubt arises with me whether they are entitled to the benefits of the Said Resolution, as they were not Adopted by the state, as part of our Line untill some time in 1782, I pray the Instructions of the Honble the Council. And Have the Honor to be, with great respect, Your Excell” Obed. Serv'. JNO. NICHOLSON. Directed, * * His Excellency, The President of Penna. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 687.
End of Section 32. Continue to next section or 
Section 33
Page 95
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 95 - John LUKENS SEC'Y TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Surv' Gen.” Office, 28* August, 1783. Sir, Agreeable to your Order of the 10° of June last, a Number of Surveyors have been Appointed, and Received their Orders for Surveying the land that is to be sold for the payment of Certificates of Depreciation, and are gone forward on that Service, and the others are ready to follow, so as to be there the 10th of next Month. They have Requested that I wou'd apply to Council for Orders to General Irvine at Fort Pitt, to afford them a Guard while in that service, (or at least while they run the West & North Boundaries of sº #. as they look on it not very safe to proceed without, and it will be a great hardship on them to go there & not be able to pro ceed to business so as to do all, or the greatest part of it this #,i. I Remain Yours, to Serve. JNO. LUKENS, Sec'y.* Directed, To His Excellency, John Dickinson, Es", Presidi., present. ** REPORT OF COMMITTEE OF ASSEMBLY—Gov. HARRISON's LETTERS, 1783. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Thursday, August 28, 1783. The report of the committee, read August 27, instant, on the sub- ject of Governor Harrisons letters, was read the second time, and adopted as follows, viz. Your committee to whom was referred the consideration of Governor Harrisons letters of the 12th of June, and 23d of July last, wherein it appears that complaint hath been made to the ex- ecutive of Virginia by a number of the inhabitants of that tract of country which falls (by the extention of the temporary line betwixt the two States) within the bounds of this state, that the conditions upon which said line was acceded to, have been departed from, by this State, and measures adopted which deprive them of those rights which they held under Virginia, and fully confirmed in the Agree- ment entered into by both States previous to the running the afore- said temporary line, also that prosecutions were commenced, and judgment awarded against the Officers of the Militia for obeying the orders of that State, previous to the running said line, whereby * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 596.
Page 96
96 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. the late citizens of that state are harassed and oppressed with expence for performing the service which they owed to their country; duly considering the substance of the foregoing complaints, together with the report of the prothonotary of Washington county, who was directed by the Executive of this State, to enquire fully into the aforesaid premises.—Beg leave to report, that the foregoing com- º are groundless, with respect to any infringements having en made on the title of any lands acquired under the State of Virginia, and that any suits that were instituted against Lieutenant Colonel Cox and others, were owing to their imprudent conduct in executing orders, that were issued by that State subsequent to the agreement entered into by this & the State of Virginia, notwith- standing in the trial of the said suit, the said Colonel Cox was * (with) paying the Clerks fees only. our committee further considering that part of Governor Harrisons letter, wherein he proposes running the boundary line between this and the State of Virginia, as agreed upon by the Com- missioners at Baltimore in the year 1779, and taking into view the unhappy situation of the good citizens of this State settled in Wash- ington county &c", and the evil consequences that may attend delay in matters of such importance, beg leave to offer the following resolution. Resolved, that the Supreme Executive Council be (directed) to correspond with the Executive of Virginia, upon the subject of fix- ing the mode and the most convenient time for establishing finally the boundary line betwixt that, and this State, and that they be authorised immediately to appoint Commissioners on the part of this State, who, in conjunction with those to be appointed by the State of Virginia, shall run the said line, this House being sincerely disposed finally to ascertain the boundary between the two States as speedily as possible. - Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS, Ass Clerk of the General Assembly. Indorsed, 29th Aug. 1783, Report of a committee of the House, upon the subject of Gov. Harrison's letters read & adopted by the house. JoHN NICHOLSON TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Comp' Gen. Office, Sep 2d, 1783. Sir, Application hath been made to me in behalf of some of those Traitors whose Estates have been Confiscated and sold, for a Certified
End of Section 33. Continue to next section or 
Section 34
Page 97
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783, - 97 account of the amount of the Sales—This no doubt is done in order to solicit the British Court for some compensation on account of their losses—I beg leave to ask the advice and direction of your Ex- cellency and Council whether there be any impropriety in giving it. I have the Honor to be your Excy's most obediend and very Humble Serv't, JNO. NICHOLSON. Directed, To His Exc'y the President in Council. SHARP DELANY TO SEC'Y ARMSTRONG, 1783. Tuesday Morning, Sep'r 2d, 1788. Dear Sir, Among the business transmitted by Council, a Petition or Memo- rial of Cap'n Darie of the ship De Estaing is mentioned, & referr'd to a Committee—The Clerk of our House says he never saw it- The Capt'n is urgent for some Determination, as he lyes at a great daily expence. I would therefore request you may transmitt the said Mem" to your humble & Obed Servant SHARP DELAN.Y. Directed, To Major Armstrong. John NICHOLSON TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1788. Comp. Gen'l Office, Philad. Sept. 2d, 1783. Sir, - I do myself the Honor to Inclose a Letter from James Searle, Esq. late Commissioner for Negociating a foreign Loan for the use of this State, in answer to one I had wrote requesting him to account for monies advanced him, before he sat out for Europe—your Excellency and Council will perceive, that he wishes your Honorable Board to call him to a settlement of his accounts, by refering them to the decision of Indifferent persons. The part which I conceive he wishes to have determined in that way is the Compensation for his services, otherwise I suppose he would have no objection against having his account settled in the common and Legal manner–As the allowance for his Services is a matter of too much Magnitude for me to deter-
Page 98
~ 98 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. mine—I beg leave to request that the Honorable the Council may take such order therein as to their prudence may seem best. I have the Honor to be with the Highest respect your Excellency's Most Ob't Serv't, JNO. NICHOLSON. Directed, To His Excell’y The Presid’t in Council. º PREs. OF CoNGRESS To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1783. * - Princton Sept'r 3d, 1783. Sir, - I have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 21st Ultimo, in which your State may possibly be interested. I am with very great respect your Excellency's most Obd’t & very H’ble Serv't, ELIAS BOUDINOT.* Directed, To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq’r. CoMMISSIONERs of WESTMoRELAND TO PREs. DICKINsoN, 1783. Westmoreland County, September 4*, 1783. Honoured Sir, Received your Circular Letter of the 24” of July Last yesterday, and beggs leave to inform your Honour that we have done all in our Power to raise the Supplies of our County for the last Year— but the Notion of Virginia affected the People of one Township so much as to cause them to pursue the Assessor with arms and Fire after him so that we could not obtain the Property of that Township, for which Reason we could not proceed to Quota the County. The time for this year was far elapsed before the Supply Law came to hand; immediately after we proceeded to our duties, and is likely to meet with bad Success, many of the Assessors not making any Returns, which puts back Business, and expects that matters will be much as they were last Year. Beggs. Your directions how to pro- ceed if they should—Hostilities has ceased on Our Frontier since the Spring, but the Inhabitants dare not Venture, as yet, to their Places, near one Half of the County being Evacuated, and it will * He was elected President of Congress, Nov. 4, 1782.
End of Section 34. Continue to next section or 
Section 35
Page 99
PENNSYLVANIA. ARCHIVES 1783, 99 not be in our Power to get a Just Return of the Lands—shall do every thing we Possibly can in Exertion of our duties as Commis- sioners, and hopes you'll overlook the failures that we cannot possi- bly perform. We are, Honored Sir, with the greatest Respect, your Honor's most Obedient and most Humble Servant, W* TODD, * JOSEPH M'GARRAUGH, }~~~~ Wm. JACK. Directed, To his Excellency John Dickinson, President of the State of Pennsylvania. PREs. DICKINsoN To John WEITZEL, 1783. Sir, - It is the sense of Council that a stock of eight weeks' provision for the Complete Companies of 60 privates each, be immediately laid in at Wyoming for the subsistence of that Garrison. To this purpose, Council have written to Captains Robinson & Shrawder— with directions to consult you upon the subject;-inquiring into the quantity you may now have on hand, & whether you will engage to contract for the supply of the rest. They have the orders of this board, to confirm the contract, & their assurances that money shall not be wanting to discharge it. To this preference Council conceive you to be entitled, & from your general Acquaintance w” the busi- ness, & the fidelity wºn wº you have fulfilled your late engagements. You will see the necessity of deciding at once, as the Instructions of Council direct that Captains Robinson & Shrawder shall commit it to some other person, should it be inconvenient for you to perform it immediately. Indorsed,—1783, September 5th. INSTRUCTIONs to MESSRs. Robinson AND SHRawden, 1788. In Council, º | - Philadelphia, September 5th, 1783. Gentlemen: * y In consequence of a Conference with a committee of the General Assembly, it isjudged proper that you should be reminded in a particu- lar manner constantly to employ the utmost vigilance and alertness -
Page 100
100 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. for the security of the Fort at Wioming, and for maintaining the post where you are now stationed. It is expected that you will be in perfect preparation at every moment to resist any hostile attempt, whether openly or insidiously made. Among other attentions, it will be indispensably necessary for this purpose, that great care should be taken not to suffer the Soldiers, on any pretence whatever, to absent themselves from the Garrison, either in an indefensible situation, or beyond the reach of your immediate recall. It is thought absolutely necessary by Council, that a supply of two Months' provisions for both companies, calculating upon the compleat establishment of sixty privates to each company, be imme- diately conveyed into the Fort; so that the Garrison may not in any manner depend upon provisions from without during that period. That a single moment may not be lost—the important charge of procuring this supply is principally committed to you—for tho’, to guard against the expence of a double purchase, it may be highly necessary to consult M. Weitzle, and learn from him what stock of provisions he has now on hand, and what additional quantity he may engage to procure, yet it is intirely the sense of Council, that should i. discover the least indifference in accepting the business, or delay in the execution of it, you will yourselves proceed to com- pleat his purchases, should they be deficient, and contract for their transportations. Money shall not be wanting to fulfill these engagements. It is also our desire, that as long as it may be necessary to keep up the Garrison, after the expiration of the two Months provided for by this order, it shall at no future time be left without a supply of . Months' provision in stock. This you will regard as a standing Order. With the most entire reliance upon your fidelity, prudence, and activity—I am, Gentlemen, Your most obedient servant, JOHN DICKINSON.” P. S.—On the receipt of this, you will immediately transmit a return of the present efficient force of the Companies under your command, with a state of your ammunition and arms. The inclosed letter to be sealed and forwarded to Mr Weitzle. Directed,—On public service. Captains Robinson and Shrawder, of the Rangers at Wyoming. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 678.
End of Section 35. Continue to next section or 
Section 36
Page 101
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 101 DELEGATES IN CoNGREss To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Si Princeton, Sep 5, 1783. lſ, We have the Honour to lay before the Honble Council, Copies of sundry Papers relative to the situation of Affairs with the Hostile Indians & respecting the Posts within the limits of the United States on the Northern & Western Frontiers possessed by the Troops of His Brittannic Majesty. These Papers are referred to Committees who have not yet reported. When any proceedings are had in Con- gress we shall duly lay them before the Council to whom we shall transmit any further Information which may be received on this Subject. We have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect & Esteem your very obed. Servants, JAMES WILSON, RICHARD PETERS, JOHN MONTGOMERY. We also transmit a Copy of the Financier's Statement of the Pay- ments made by the several States in Consequence of the Requisitions of Congress for the year 1782. Directed, His Excellency The President & The Honble S. E. Council of Philadelphia. PREs. DICKINSON TO GENL. CARLETON, 1783. In Council, September 5", 1783. Sir, Perfectly convinced, that a Regard for Justice has Place in such a Character as you hold, I am induced to make a Request in Behalf of this State, which, I hope, will meet with your entire approbation, & of course be attended with the desired success. Several parts of this State have been lately infested by a sett of Robbers, & particularly by some of them within these last five months who have committed many enormous crimes, & in a very cruel manner. Information has been received, that some of these offenders are now in New York. Their names are mentioned in the inclosed proclamations & Certificates” Indictments & Outlawry. It is my Duty, to endeavour that the laws should be vindicated, & protection afforded to the good People of Pennsylvania, by a mer- ited punishment of such atrocious & dangerous Criminals. Since * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 687. 5*
End of Section 36. Continue to next section or 
Section 37
Page 102
102 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. they have at present avoided it by flight, I am happy, that you it is who must determine whether that sign of guilt shall serve them instead of Innocence. Permit me then, earnestly to desire, that you will be pleased to give proper orders for securing those of the offenders who are within your lines, & for the Delivery of them to the person who will have the Honor of presenting this Letter, in such manner that they may be safely brought to this City. I am with Sentiments of very sincere Respect, Sir, your Excellency's most obedient and very humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, His Excellency General Carleton. INSTRUCTIONS FOR CAPTAIN ELIJAH WEED, 1783. To you Sir, Council have committed the delivery of the letters inclosed. That to Governor Livingston is expressive of our wishes that the State of New Jersey may render such assistances to you in the farther execution of this business, as he may think necessary. The letter to General Carleton is accompanied by such proclamations and certificates of indictment and outlawry under the Seal of the State as will determine the justice of our request, and we flatter ourselves the aquiescence of the General. If these hopes be well founded, He will issue an order for the apprehension of the several persons mentioned in the inclosed list, and probably commit some part of the management to you. It will therefore be proper before you leave this City to possess yourself of as correct a description of the Men as possible and it may not be amiss upon your arrival at New York to attach yourself to some one acquainted with their persons and places of abode. '. We need scarcely suggest that next to the most inviolable secrecy the conduct of this business will require the utmost dispatch. I am Sir, - Your most obedient humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON.
End of Section 37. Continue to next section or 
Section 38
Page 103
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 103 PREs. DICKINsoN To Gov. LIVINGSTON, 1783. In Council, September 5*, 1783. Sir, I have this Day written to General Carleton, to request the Delivery of some very atrocious & dangerous offenders against the Laws of this State, who according to Information received are now in New York. Mr Weede who will have the Honor of Delivering this Letter, is charged with the Dispatches for the General, & is to receive the Criminals if delivered. As it may be absolutely necessary, in order to conduct them safely to this City, that some assistance should be given by your State on this occasion, I shall, and I am persuaded this Common- wealth will strongly feel the obligation, if you, Sir, will be so good as to give the proper orders for this Purpose. It may also be as necessary, that the General should be informed of your Intentions, so that the Measuros he may be disposed to take may coincide with them, & leave no opportunity to the offenders of escaping. Any expences incurred in Consequence of your Orders will be cheerfully & gratefully defrayed by this State. I am with the greatest Esteem, - Sir, your Excellency's * : most ob' & most Hble Ser', JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, . - His Excellency Governor Livingston. OATH of Edward Fox, As CoMMISSIONER, 1783. State of Pennsylvania, Sc', I Edward Fox do solemnly swear that I will truly and faithfully execute the Office of Commissioner for adjusting the Accounts of the General Hospital to which I am appointed, and the Powers in me vested by an Act, entitled “An Act for the Settlement of the Pub- lic Accounts of the United States,” &c., without favor, affection, hatred, or malice, according to the best of my judgment and abilities. EDWARD FOX. 8* of Sep., 1783.
End of Section 38. Continue to next section or 
Section 39
Page 104
104 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. CoMMISSIONERS OF PHILADELPHIA To CouncIL—OLD JAIL, 1783. To His Excellency John Dickinson Esq., President, and the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, We see by a paragraph in Councils Message to the House of Assembly, that a preference seems to be given to the appropriation of the Ground on which the old Gaol and work House stands &c., for an Exchange, and by a resolve of the Honorable House of Assembly, that a committee is appointed to confer with your Honor- able Board, on that business; We hope it is not meant that the appropriation should be made without a sufficient compensation to this City and County; the Estate in question will neat at least six hundred Pounds per annum, exclusive of the Materials now on the premises, which we suppose will sell for one thousand Pounds. altho' we have some doubt as to the propriety of the Executive Council for the state at large having the disposal of the property belonging to a particular County, except in extraordinary cases, yet in the present instance had Council sufficient leasure from the other and in general more important concerns of the State, we could have no doubt, but this business would be effected fully, to the satisfaction of the City and County of Philadelphia, in accomplishing of which this Board will be happy to afford every assistance in their power. We are Gentlemen, Your most obedt. and very humb. Servants. GUNNING BEDFORD, JOHN BAKER, NATHAN GIBSON. Philada. Sept. 15, 1783. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr., President &c. CAPT. PHILIP SHRAWDER TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Wyoming, Septr. 17, 1783. Sir, In obedience to your Excellency's Orders I have the Honor to transmit a Return of the Companies, arms and ammunition. Your Excellency’ Letter to Mr. Weitzel I have forwarded to Capt. Robinson who is at present in Northumberland to be delivered by him, but as we received no supply since June last, it is not probable Mr. Weitzel can have a stock on Hand. - I would beg Leave to inform your Excellency that to maintain
End of Section 39. Continue to next section or 
Section 40
Page 105
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 105 this Post, I have for better than two Months past extended my Credit as far as possible in purchasing Provisions for the Garrison and in order to be enabled to see the Troops supplied. I would beg your Excellency and the Honble. Board would be pleased to order £300 to be forwarded to me by Lieut. Erb, º the utmost Necessity obliged me to send. - With the greatest Respect, I have the Honor to be Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient, and most humble Servant, PHIL. SHRAWDER Captn. P. R. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr., President, Philadelphia. Return of Captains Robinson and Shrawders Companies of Penn- sylvania Rangers stationed at Wyoming, Septr. 17, 1783. i ; | | i | i 2 1 2 : 1 Capt'n Robinson's Comp'y Fit for Duty, Sick Capt'n Schrawder's Comp'y Fit for Buty, 1 Sick, 1 H 2 1 T5 2 5 7 1 Total, One Box of Cartridges, 66 Muskets. PHIL. SHRAWDER, Captn. P. R. Resolution of CoNGRESS—INDIAN AFFAIRs, 1783. The United States in Congress Assembled September 20th, 1783. Congress took into consideration the report of a Committee con- sisting of Mr. Duane, Mr. Peters, Mr. Carroll, Mr. Hawkins and Mr. A. Lee, to whom were referred instructions to the Delegates of Pen- sylvania, and the same being read as follows: “That the legislature of Pensylvania be informed in answer to the request of the Delegates of that State in consequence of In- structions from the said legislature of the 13" Instant. That Congress have no objection to a conference being held on behalf of the State of Pensylvania with the Indians on their borders, respecting a purchase to be made by & at the expense of the said
Page 106
T06 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. State, of lands within the limits thereof; provided no engagements relative to peace or War with the said Indians be entered into by the said State, the power of holding treaties on this subject being vested by the Confederation solely in the United States in Congress Assembled, and also provided that due notice of such meeting be given to the Executives of Virginia & New York who shall have it in their option to send Commissioners to the said conference.”. A motion was made by Mr. Gerry seconded by Mr. Ellery that the farther consideration of the report be postponed until Thursday next, and on the question for postponing, the yeas & nays being re- quired by Mr. Gerry. Newhampshire. Mr. Foster, ay. HX Massachusetts. Mr. Gerry, ay. - . . Mr. Holten, ay. - ay Mr. Higgenson, ay. Rhode Island. Mr. Ellery, ay - Mr. Howell, ay ay Connecticut. Mr. S. Huntington, no Da Mr. B. Huntington, ay } New York. Mr. Duane, no. D. Mr. L'Hommedieu, ay New Jersey. Mr. Boudinot, In O Mr. Clarke, In O. X-mo Mr. Condict, ;} Pensylvania. Mr. Fitzsimmons, no. Mr. Montgomery, no. f* Virginia. Mr. Jones, no. Mr. Madison, In O. y no Mr. Mercer, no North Carolina. Mr. Hawkins, no Mr. Williamson, no. } no South Carolina. Mr. Read, no. XX So the question was lost. The report having been then amended so as to read, “That Congress have no objection to a conference being held on behalf of the State of Pennsylvania with the Indians on their bor- ders for the sole purpose of making a purchase by & at the expence of the said State of lands within the limits thereof; provided that due notice of such meeting be given to the Executives of Virginia & New York, who shall i. it in their option to send Commis- sioners to the said Conference.” A motion was mad. by Mr. Higgenson seconded by Mr. Holten, farther to amend the report by adding after the word “thereof,” the following words, “after terms of accomodation shall have been agreed on between the United States & those Indians;” and on the question to agree to this amendment the yeas & nays being required by Mr. Gerry.
Page 107
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 107 Newhampshire Mr. Foster, ay. X Massachusetts. Mr. Gerry, ay. Mr. Holten, ay. ay Mr. Higgenson, ay. Rhode Island. Mr. Ellery, ay. a Mr. Howell, ay. y Connecticut. Mr. S. Huntington, ay. , Mr. B. Huntington, ay. y New York. Mr. Duane, ay. Mr. L'Hommedieu, ay. ay New Jersey. Mr. Boudinot, ay. Mr. Clarke, no. Yay Mr. Condict, ay. Pensylvania. Mr. Fitzsimmons, no. no Mr. Montgomery, no. Wirginia. Mr. Jones, no. Mr. Madison, no. 5 no Mr. Mercer, no. North Carolina. Mr. Hawkins, *y. a Mr. Williamson, ay. y South Carolina. Mr. Read, no. X So the question was lost. • * A Division of the question on the report was then called for, & on the question to agree to the report as amended, so far as the pro- viso, the yeas and nays being required by Mr. Fitzsimmons. Newhampshire. Mr. Foster. no. -X Masschusetts. Mr. Gerry, no. Mr. Holten, no. ). no Mr. Higgenson, InO. Rhode Island. Mr. Ellery, h9. no Mr. Howell, In O. Connecticut. Mr. S. Huntington, ay. a Mr. B. Huntington, ay. } y New York. Mr. Duane, ay. Mr. L'Hommedieu, ay, jº New Jersey. Mr. Boudinot, ay. º Mr. Clarke, ay. Fay Mr. Condict, ay. Pensylvania. Mr. Fitzsimmons, ay, a Mr. Montgomery, ay. y Maryland. Mr. Carroll, no. W. X Virginia. Mr. Jones, ay. Mr. Madison, ay. - ay Mr. Mercer, ay. North Carolina. Mr. Hawkins, ay. Mr. Williamson, ay. South Carolina. Mr. Read, ay. XX
Page 108
108 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. So the question was lost. A motion was then made by Mr. Duane seconded by Mr. Ellery, in the words following: Whereas the Delegates of the State of Pensylvania, have laid before Congress a resolution of the legislature of Pensylvania in the words following: (Here the resolution of the 12th September, 1783, is inserted.)* And the said Delegates having also laid before Congress an in- struction from the said legislature in the words following, Wiz: (Here the instruction, same date with resolution, is inserted.) Resolved, That the legislature of Pensylvania be informed in answer to the said representation that as soon as an agreement shall have taken place for the cessation of hostilities between the United States & the Indians engaged on the side of the British in the prosecution of the war, (for which measures are now under delibera- tion,) Congress will cheerfully consent to the negociation proposed by the legislature for the purchase of the Indian Claim, to lands within the limits of that State. On the question to agree to the foregoing motion the yeas and nays being required by Mr. Duane. Newhampshire. Mr. Foster, ay. -X Massachusetts. Mr. Gerry, ay. Mr. Holten, ay. Yay Mr. Higgenson, ay. Rhode Island. Mr. Ellery, ay. Mr. Howell, ay. | */ Connecticut. . Mr. S. Huntington, ay. Mr. B. Huntington, ay, jº' New York. Mr. Duane, ay. Mr. L'Hommedieu, ay. }•y New Jersey. Mr. Boudinot, ay. Mr. Clarke, ay. X ay Mr. Condict, ay. Pensylvania. Mr. Fitzsimmons, no. no ** Mr. Montgomery, no. Maryland. Mr. Carroll, no. X Virginia. Mr. Jones, no. Mr. Madison, In O. Y- no Mr. Mercer, In O. North Carolina. Mr. Hawkins, *y. Da Mr. Williamson, no. } South Carolina. Mr. Read, ay. X So the question was lost. Extract from the Minutes. GEO. BOND, Dep’ Secy. * Not inserted in this Copy.
End of Section 40. Continue to next section or 
Section 41
Page 109
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 109 John WEITZEL To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Sunbury, Sept. 23", 1783. May it please your Excellency: Your favor of the 5* Ins” did not come to my hands till the 17th, at which time I had no provision on hand; however, I sett to the business immediately, and shall have about half the quantity ready in the Course of Four or Five days. The rest I will compleate in a few days after.—I thank the Honourable Council for the preference they were pleased to give me, and they may rest assured that no pains shall be wanting to compleat the business, which I conceive I shall be able to do as soon as any other person whatsoever. I am, with great respect, your Excellency's most Obedient and very humble Servant, JNo WEITZEL. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the Ex- ecutive Council of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. INSTRUCTIONS FOR W.M. LEE SERJEANTS AND JoHN McCLURE, 1783. Instructions for W* Lee Serjeants & John McClure. You are to take immidiate charge of the Fort, buildings & pub- lick property now remaining at the Post of McIntoch for & in behalf of the State of Pennsylvania, (Except two pieces of Iron Cannon & some water Casks, the property of the United States) and three thousand acres of land reserved for the use of said State : when the tract is Surveyed, you will attend & make yourselves acquainted with the lines; in the mean time, you will consider it extending two miles up and down the river, and two miles back; you will take care that no waste is committed, or Timber cut down or carried off the premises, and prohibit buildings to be made, or any Persons making Settlements or to reside thereon, or from even Hunting Encampments, nor are any more families to be permitted than your own to live in the Barracks or any part of the Tract. In case of necessity for reoccupying the post for the United States, you are to give up the Fort to the Orders of the Commanding Continental Officer at this place, retain- ing only such part of the buildings as may be necessary for you to live in—But if the Troops should be so numerous as not to afford room for you—you will in that case occupy the Buildings without the * See page 115.
Page 110
110 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. Works, or build for yourselves on some convenient place; but you will on no Account whatever quit the place without orders from the Executive Council of Pennsylvania or their Agent so to do—Whose directions you will hereafter Obey in all matters relative to said Post & tract of land. In case of lawless Violence, or persons attempting to settle by force, or presuming to destroy any thing on the premises, you will apply to Michael Hoofnagle, Esqure, or some Other justice by the peace for Westmoreland County. For your Care and trouble in performing in the several matters herein required, you may put in Grain & labor any quantity of ground not exceeding one hundred acres, and keep or raise stock to the number of fifty head of horned Cattle & Eight Horses. You will govern yourselves by these instructions until the pleasure of the Hon” Council is signified to you—and you will give up peaceable possession to them or their Order whenever they think proper. Given under my hand at Fort Pitt, Sept. 23", 1783, Wm. IRVINE, B. Gen. We severally engage to conform to the foregoing instructions to us by General Irvine. H. LEE, JNo. McCLURE. Witness, * John Rose. DEPOSITIONS RESPECTING ARREST of Joseph DoAN, 1783. Bedford, 25th, 1783. This Day, I, Mary Hay, Wife of Thomas Hay, Under Sheriff and Gaoler in and for the County of Bedford, in the State of Pennsyl- vania, Do acknowledge to have received from Joseph Wilson, of the State of Maryland, the Body of Joseph Doan, mentioned in the Act of Assembly entitled “An Act to encourage the speedy apprehending and bringing to Justice divers Robbers' Burglars and Felons,” in the Gaol of the County aforesaid, agreeably to the said Act. Certified the Day & Year aforesaid by her MARY 84 HAY, Mark. Wife of the said Thomas Hay. Witnesses present, Tho' BURD, JAMEs' FRENCH. Bedford County, Ss. We, the Subscribers, two of the Justices of the Peace in and for the County of Bedford aforesaid, Do hereby certify to all whom it
Page 111
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES, 1783. 111. may concern, that We were present and saw the above named Jo- seph Wilson, the Bearer hereof, deliver the aforesaid Joseph Doan to the above named Mary Hay, Wife of the said Thomas Hay, (who is Under Sheriff and Gaoler in and for the County aforesaid, and now abroad upon publick Business) in the Goal aforesaid ; at which Time he confessed to us that his Name was Joseph Doan, and that he is Father of Aaron Doan & Mahlon Doan, mentioned in the aforesaid Act of Assembly. - In Testimony whereof, We have hereunto set our Hands the said twenty-fifth Day of September, Anno Domini, 1783. BARNARD DOUGHERTY, DAVID ESPY. RESOLUTIONS OF ASSEMBLY-PURCHASE OF INDIAN LANDS, 1783. Thursday, September 25, 1783, A. M. ** - State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, The committee appointed September 12, made report, which was read, and on motion, and by special order, the same was read the second time, and adopted, as follows, viz: The committee appointed to digest such plans as they might con- ceive necessary to facilitate and expedite the laying off and surveying the lands appropriated for the redemption of the military deprecia- tion certificates, beg leave after the fullest information and enquiry, to report the following resolution for the consideration of the house. Resolved unanimously, That the supreme executive council be, and they are hereby authorized and empowered to appoint Commis- sioners to hold a meeting with the Indians claiming the unpurchased territory within the acknowledged limits of the State, for the purpose of purchasing the same, agreeable to ancient usage, and that all expences accruing from the said meeting and purchase be defrayed out of the Treasury of the State Extract from the minutes, PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly. Directed, The Hon'ble the Supreme Executive Council. Depositions RESPECTING ARREST of MAHLoN DOAN, 1783. Bedford County in the State of Peensylvania, I, Mary Hay, Wife of Thomas Hay, Under Sheriff and Keeper of the Gaol in and for the County of Bedford aforesaid, Do hereby
Page 112
112 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. acknowledge that I have this Day received the Body of Mahlon Doan,” in the Gaol of the County aforesaid from John Soloman Miller, who delivered the same to me agreeably to the Act of Assem- bly entitled “An Act to encourage the speedy apprehending and bringing to justice divers Robbers Burglars and Felons.”, Certified the 27th Day of September, Anno Domini, 1788. By me her MARY >4 HAY. mark Wife of the said Thomas Hay. TEST. SAMUEL MEASHLEN, SAMUEL SKINNER. Bedford County ss. We the Subscribers two of the Justices of the Peace in and for the County of Bedford aforesaid Do hereby certify to all whom it may concern, That we were present and saw the above named John Solomon Miller deliver the said Mahlon Doan to Mary Hay wife of the said Thomas Hay, who is under Sheriff and Gaoler in the County of Bedford aforesaid and now abroad upon the Business of his Office, in the Goal of the County aforesaid agreeable to the Direc- tions of the said Act of Assembly; at which Time he confessed to us that his Name was Mahlon Doan, and Son to Joseph Doan men- tioned in the said Act of Assembly. Given under our Hands at Bedford the twenty seventh Day of September Anno Domini, 1783. BARNARD DOUGHERTY. DAVID ESPY. Bedford, October 28th, 1783. * I acknowledge that the within Named Mahlon Doan was Deliv- ered into the Goal of the County of Bedford whereof I am Goaler. THOMAS HAY. The within Named Mahlon Doan has a Blemish on one of his Eyes and a sort of a Scar under it, has black hair, thin visaged, Slender made, down looking and about five feet seven or eight inches high. As far as I remember the above is Mahlon Doans description. BARNARD DOUGHERTY. Philade, December 17”, 1783. Indorsed, The Goaler's receipts and Justices Certificate for Mahlon Doan to John S. Miller, December 17th, 1783. * See page 110.
Page 113
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 113 MonTHLY PAY OF THE OFFICERS AND SOLDIERS OF THE AMERICAN ARMY, 1783. Infantry. Major General, 166 Dollars. Brigadier, 125, Aids de Camp, 50, [including their pay as Officers in the Line,) Brigade Majors, 50, [including their pay as Officers in the Line,) Chaplain, 75, Colonel, 75, Lieut. Colonel, 60, Major, 50, Captain, 40, Lieutenants, 263 Ensigns, 20, Pay master, 30, [additional pay.] Adjutant, 13, [additional pay.] Quarter Master, 13, [additional pay.] Surgeon, 59, Mate, 42, Serjeant Major, 10, Quarter Master Serjt. 10, Serjeants, 9, Drum Major & Fife do 9, Drums and Fifes, 7+ Corporals, 7+ Privates, 6# Artillery. Colonel, 100 Dl. Lieut. Colonel, 75, Major, 62} Captains, 50, Captain Lieutenant, 33} First Lieutenant, 33} Second Lieutenant, 33} Pay master, 30, [additional pay.] * Adjutant, 16, gº pay.] uarter, Master, 16, gº pay.] Surgeon, 59, Surgeon Mates, 42, Serjeant Major, 11,3% Quarter Master Serjt. 11,3% Fife Major, 1038 Drum Major, 1038 Serjeant, 10, Bombardiers, 9, Corporals, 9, Gunners, 860 Drums and fifes, 860 Matrosses, 8 so Cavalry, Colonel, 93; Lieut. Colonel, 75, Major, 60, Captains, 50, Lieutenant, 33} Cornets, 263 Riding Master," 33} Pay master, 30, additional. - Adjutant, 15, additional. t Quarter Master, 15, additional. Surgeon, 59, Surgeons Mate, 42, Sadler, 10, . Trumpet Major, 11, Farriers, 10, Quarter Master Secy. 15, Trumpeters, 10, Serjeants, 15, Corporals, 10, Dragoons, 8#. Pay of the artificers is the same as artillery. The above is the established pay of the American army. War office, Sept. 27th, 1783. JOS. CARITON, Secy.
End of Section 41. Continue to next section or 
Section 42
Page 114
114 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. - RETURN of NAVAL OFFICERs, 1783, Paid to the Commissioners for the defence of the river Delaware. }cº, 6, 2, Paid to Mr. David Rittenhouse, 4482, 1, 2, do. “Mr. James Smith, 2833, 9,2, £41839, 16, 6. 22d of Sept. last. Indorsed, Return from Naval Officers, Septr. 30th 1783. MESS. Doug HERTY AND ESPY TO PRES. DICKINSON.—THE DoANs, 1783. Sir, . We beg leave to inform your Excellency that on the twenty fifth Day of this Instant September a certain Joseph Doan (the elder) was brought to the Gaol of this County by one Joseph Willson of . Maryland and that on last Saturday Mahlon Doan Son to the sd, Joseph was brought by John Sallamon Miller of this County in like manner to prison." We are greatly uneasy on account of these prisoners, because we apprehend from the many threatnings thrown out in the lower Counties there may be an attempt made on the prison here to take them out and therefore pray to be directed as soon as possible, what's best to be donc. We are Sir, with very great respect, Y. your Excellency's most Obedt. Hbbl. Servis. BARNARD DOUGHERTY, DAVID ESPY.” Directed, On public Service. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. Favored by Mr. Wm. Henry Jones. - Bedford, September 29th, 1783. -j- * See Oct. 9
End of Section 42. Continue to next section or 
Section 43
Page 115
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 115 INSTRUCTIONS FROM BRIG. GENERAL IRVINE To JAMEs Boggs, 1783. Fort Pitt, Sept'r 30th, 1783. You are to take Charge of the Tract of Land opposite Fort Pitt reserved for the use of the State of Pennsylvania, and not suffer any waste or Distruction to be done of Timber, or Cut or Carried off the Premises Except what is herein mentioned. , You will on no account allow Roads to be made Through. The Tract, or landing Places other than the old one formerly used by the Indian Traders, & lately by the garrison—you will Cautiously avoid giving offence to the Commandant at this Post, and if any trespasses are Commit- ted or violence used you will lodge Regular Complaint to Michael Hoofnagle Esq., or some other Justice of the Peace for Westmore- land County. You are for your Trouble & Care, allowed to Clear Land & Raise Crops so as not to Exceed one Hundred acres, & you may keep stock, not to Exceed Twenty Horned Cattle & Six Horses, you are not to Permit any buildings whatsoever to be Erected, Except for the use & Convenience of your own Families, you may however alow the Troops of this Garrison to Cut & Carry off fire wood, if the Commanding officer finds it Expedient to take from them, but you must Keep & Render an accº to Council of the Quantity so taken— you will also hereafter govern yourself by such orders or Instructions as you may Receive From His Excellency the President of the state—and you will Render Peaceable Possession when Required by Him, or the Lawfull Agent of the Honerable the Council: or take such Lease as they shall think Proper. - I engage to act conformably to the above instructions from General Irvine. JAMES BOGGS. Witness, DAvid DUNCAN. N. B.-Untill the Tract is surveyed it is considered to extend two Miles down the Ohio River & two miles up the Aligany & two miles back.” Indorsed, 1783, September 30th. Instructions to James Boggs, for occu- pying land opposite Fort Pitt. * See page, 109.
End of Section 43. Continue to next section or 
Section 44
Page 116
116 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES -1783. RESOLUTION OF THE GENERAL Assembly of ConnECTICUT, 1783. At a General Assembly of the Governor and Company of the State of Connecticut, holden at New Haven on the second Thursday of Octob"[9], 1783. Whereas this State has the undoubted and exclusive Right of Jurisdiction & Pre-emption to all the Lands lying West of the Western limits of the State of Pennsylvania, & East of the Mis- sissipi River, and extending throughout from the Latitude 41° to Latitude 42° 2 north, by virtue of the Charter granted by King Charles the second to the late Colony now State of Connecticut, bearing date the 234 day of April, A. D., 1632, Which Claim and Title to make known for the information of all, to the End that they may conform themselves thereto. Resolved, That His Excellency the Governor be desired to issue his Proclamation, declaring and asserting the Right of this State to all the Lands within the Limits aforesaid & strictly forbidding all Persons to enter or settle thereon, without special Licence & Authority first obtained from the General Assembly of this State. A true Copy of Record, Ex" by George Wyllis, Secy. A True Copy of a Copy, Ex" By Jno. Trumbull, Gov. At a General Assembly of the Governor and Company of the State of Connecticut, holden at New Haven on the 24 Thursday of October, A. D., 1783. This Assembly being informed, since the Trial had in December last between this State and the State of Pennsylvania of some Evidence material to said Cause, then concealed and suppressed from the knowledge of this State or its agents, and that there is a probability of asscertaining other facts on which to ground a revision of said Cause. Resolved, that Eliphalet Dyer, William Sam' Johnson, & Jesse Root, Esquires, heretofore appointed, be & they are hereby continued Agents for this State in the matter aforesaid & that they pursue * their Enquiries after Evidence & make report to this or some future Assembly. A true Copy of Record, Ex" by Geo. Wyllis, Secy. A true Copy of a Copy, Ex” by Jno. Trumbull, Govr.
Page 117
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 117 At a General Assembly of the Governor and Company of the State of Connecticut, holden at New Haven on the second Thursday of October, A. D., 1783. On the Report of a Committee respecting the Inhabitants settled under the Claim of this State West of Delaware River, accepted and approved. Whereas a large number of Inhabitants West of Delaware River, and within the Charter limits of this State, settled there under the Claim and Jurisdiction' of the said State having first, with the approbation of the General Assembly thereof, purchased the native right of soil & for many years past have been incorporated, and in the exercise of Government under the Laws of this State. And whereas by a late decree of Commissioners appointed for settling a dispute relative to Jurisdiction between this State and the State of Pennsylvania, the tract of Land possessed by the sº settlers is unex- pectedly declared to be within the Jurisdiction of the Latter: since which the said settlers as it is represented, notwithstanding their having acquired the native & possessing right as aforesaid, and corroberated their title by vast Labor & expence in reducing the said Lands from a wilderness state, and stood as a Barrier to Penn- sylvania and other interior settlements, thro' a long distressing war, in which most of their males, capable of labor or defence have been slain, Circumstances which entitled them to expect as well from the Justice as clemency of that great and opulent State the fullest Protection for their Persons, & to be forever quiet in their Posses- sions; and for which they lost no time in applying to its legislature by humble Petitions; yet notwithstanding to their great astonish- ment and distress, they find themselves left to the mercy of men, who claiming under the Proprietory Title of that State, are prosecuting against them suits of Ejectment, and in some Cases entering into their Possessions & Labors by Force, Whereupon Resolved by this Assembly, That it will in their opinion, be expedient for the said settlers, as the only Remedy left them, to apply to the Hon’ble the Congress of the United States, for a Court to be instituted to try their right of soil and possession, pursuant to the 9th of the Articles of Confederation. That it will be the Duty of this State to countenance and patronize them in such application; and that the Delegates of the State, that shall be in Congress, be directed to give them all necessary aid therein—And that His Excellency the Governor be desired to address a full State of their Claims & sufferings to Congress, and solicit the Protection of the Hon' Body, in their Behalf, untill a final adjudication of the sº Cause shall be had. A true Copy of Record Ex” by G. Wyllis, Secy, A true Copy of a Copy, Ex” by Jon. Trumbull, Govr. Vol. X. —6
End of Section 44. Continue to next section or 
Section 45
Page 118
118 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. MEMORIAL OF EPHRAIM Douglass, 1783. To the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council of the Common Wealth of Pennsylvania. The Memorial of Ephraim Douglass humbly sheweth, That having to his principles made an early sacrifice of his interest, he entered into, and continued in the service of his country till the loss of health conspiring with other misfortunes obliged him to retire at a time when his return to civil life offered him no prospect of a return to his former pursuits in it. That he has since. earned a precarious subsistence by the accidental services he has been occasionally employed to perform; but being now altogether without business and strongly desirous of obtaining some º: independent employment he looks up to your Honorable Body for the accomplishment of that desire with all the confidence which a knowledge of your justice and readiness in rewarding your faithful servants can inspire. w - That your Memorialist having heard of a new county being created from a part of Westmoreland, begs leave humbly to offer himself a candidate for the office of Prothonotary in the County of Fayette and prays your acceptance of his services. Your Memorialist as in duty bound will ever pray. EPHRAIM DOUGLASS.* Philadelphia, 2 October, 1783. PROPOSALS FOR SUPPLYING THE TROOPS WITH PROVISION AT Wyoming, 1783. Proposals for supplying the Troops with Provision at Wyoming by Capt. Wm. Wilson. for 1 ib of Bread or Flower, 3} 1 lb of Beef or 3 lb Pork, 5 1 Gill Liquor, &c., 2} 11 * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 706. º
End of Section 45. Continue to next section or 
Section 46
Page 119
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1783. 119 PETITION JoHN REYNOLDs, GAOLER, 1783. His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, president of the State of Pennsylvania & the Supreme Executive Council. Whereas, William Tricket & Samuel &andle Received Sentence on Monday Last, to stand in the Pillory one hour this day for Counterfeiting Coppers of Base Mettle; & Ann Pembroke Also Receive Sentence on Monday last, To be publickly Whiped, twenty- one Lashes for a Grand Laceny by her Committed, this punishment to be Inflicted this day, as the Weather is so bad it may Indanger the healths of the Criminals and they not so publickly Exposed, I therefore pray his Excellency and the Supreme Executive Council would be pleased to remit their punishments Untill Saturday Next. I am with Great Respect his Excellency's and the Supreme Execu- tive Council's Most Obedient & Humble Serv", JOHN REYNOLDS, Gaoler. October 8", 1783. CouncII. To DoughERTY & Espy, 1783. In Council, Philad’, October 9th, 1783. Gentlemen: Council has received your Letter of the 29th of last Month.* The Board desires that the Sheriff of Bedford County may im- mediately convey the Prisoners with the utmost Dispatch & all pos- sible privacy under a guard of six or seven men well armed to Lancaster Gaol, & there deliver them to the Sheriff of that County, to be by him safely kept. The State will pay the charges of re- moving them. In passing thro Cumberland County, the Sheriff of Bedford, will if it is convenient obtain the authority, & if necessary the assistance of the Sheriff of Cumberland. Messieurs BARNARD DOUGHERTY and DAVID ESPY, Bedford. REPORT ON INDIAN AFFAIRs, 1783. The United States in Congress Assembled Wednesday, October 15th, 1783. The Committee consisting of Mr. Duane, Mr. Peters, Mr. Car- roll, Mr. Hawkins & Mr. Á Lee, to whom were referred Sundry * See page 114.
Page 120
120 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. letters and papers" relative to Indian affairs, report that they have attentively considered the several papers referred to them & have conferred thereon with the Commander in Chief that their report will be confined to Indian affairs in the Northern & Middle depart. ments, as they are defined by the Acts of Congress of the 12th of July, 1775, and to the settlement of the Western Country; the subjects being in the opinion of the committeeginseparably con- nected, and the committee not being possessed of materials which enable them to extend their views to the southern district, that it is represented, and the committee believe with truth, that although the hostile Tribes of Indians in the Northern & Middle departments seriously disposed to a pacification, yet they are not in a temper to relinquish their territorial claims without further struggles. That if an Indian war should be re-kindled, repeated victories might pro- duce the retreat of the Indians, but could not prevent them from regaining possession of some part of the distant and extensive territories, which appertain to the United States, that while such temporary expulsions could only be effected at a great charge, they could not be improved to the smallest advantage, but by maintain- ing numerous garrisons and an extensive peace establishment; That even if all the Northern & Western Tribes of Indians Inhabiting the territories of the United States, could be totally expelled, the policy of reducing them to such an extremity is deemed to be ques- tionable, for in such an event, it is obvious that they would find a welcome reception from the British Government in Canada which by so great an accession of strength would become formidable in case of any future rupture, & in peace by keeping alive the resentment of the Indians for loss of their country, would secure to its own subjects the entire benefit of the Fur-Trade. That although motives of policy as well as clemency ought to Incline Congress to listen to the prayers of the hostile Indians for peace yet in the opinion of the committee it is just & necessary that + These are enumerated in a printed sheet and a portion of the foregoing, the introductory paragraph being as follows, to wit: The committee, consist- ing of Mr. Duane, Mr. Peters, Mr. Carroll, Mr. Hawkins and Mr. Lee, to whom were referred a report on Indian affairs, read in Congress on the 21st of April last; a letter from General Schuyler, one of the commissioners of Indian affairs for the northern district dated the 11th of August last, with messages to and from certain hostile Indians on the subject of peace; a let- ter dated the same day, from Ebenezer Allen, employed to assist Mr. Bull, a messenger sent by the board of war by order of Congress, to announce the cessation of hostilities to the Indians in the western country; a report from the board of war, dated the 19th of August, accompanying a narrative of Ephraim Douglass, another messenger to the Indian tribes with sundry enclosures; a letter from the commander in chief, with instructions accom- panying the same; extract of a letter to the commander in chief from general Haldiman, commanding for his Britannic majesty in Canada, dated the 17th of August; a letter from the commander in chief, dated the 26th of August, and its enclosures, and a letter from brigadier general Irwine, dated the 3d of September instant.
Page 121
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES : 1783. 121 lines of property should be ascertained and established between the United States and them, which will be convenient to the respective tribes & commensurate to the public wants, because the faith of the United States stands pledged to grant portions of the uncultivated lands as a bounty to their army, & in reward of their courage and fidelity: & the publick finances do not admit of any considerable expenditure to exºnguish the Indian Claims upon such lands: be- cause it is become necessary by theºncrease of domestic population & emigrations from abroad, to make Speedy provision for extending the settlement of the territories of the United States; & because the public Creditors have been led to believe, & have a right to ex- pect that those territories will be speedily improved into a fund towards the security & payment of the national debt; nor in the Opinion of the Committee can the Indians themselves have any reasonable objection against the establishment recommended. They were as some of them acknowledge, aggressors in the war, without even a pretence of provocation, they violated the convention neutrality made with Congress in Albany, 1775, & in return for proferred pro- tection and liberal supplies; & to the utter ruin and impoverishment of thousands of Families they wantonly desolated our villages and settlements, and destroyed our Citizens. To stop the progress of their outrages, the war, at a vast expence to the United States, was carried into their own country, which they abandoned, weaving then the right of conquest, and the various precedants which might be quoted in similar instances, a bare recollection of the facts is suffi- cient to manifest the obligation they are under to make atonement for the enormities which they have perpetrated, & a reasonable com- pensation for the expences which the United States have incurred by their wanton barbarity, & they possess no other means to do this act of justice than by a compliance with the proposed boundaries; the committee are of opinion that in the negociation which they re- commend; care ought to be taken neither to yield nor require too much, to accommodate the Indians as far as the public good will admit, and if they should appear dissatisfied at the lines, which may be found necessary to establish rather to give them some compensa- tion for their Claims, than to hazard a war, which will be much more expensive; but it is supposed, that when they shall be informed of the estimates of the damages which our Citizens have sustained by their irruptions, & of the expenses which the United States have incurred to check their career, it will have a tendency to suppress any extravagant demands.” Whereupon, Resolved, that a convention be held with the Indians residing in the Northern and Middle departments, who have taken up arms against the United States, for the purpose of receiving them into the favour & protection of the United States and of establish boun- dary lines of property for seperating & dividing the settlements of the Citizens from the Indian Willages and hunting grounds; & here- by extinguishing as far as possible all occasion for future Animosi-
Page 122
122 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. ties, disquiet & contention; that first, & as a preliminary, it shall be required that all the prisoners of whatever age or sex among these Indians shall be delivered up. Secondly, that the Indians be informed that after a contest of eight years for the Sovereignity of this Country. Great Britian has relinquished to the United States all claim to the Country within the limits described by the second article of the provisional treaty between the United States & the King of Great Britian on the thirteenth day of November, in the year 1782, that is to say, from the north-west angle of Nova Scotia, &ca. Thirdly, that as the Indians notwithstanding a solemn treaty of neutrality with Congress at the commencement of the war, notwith- standing all the advice and admonition given them during its prose- cution could not be restrained from acts of hostility & wanton devastation, but were determined to join their arms to those of Great Britain, & to share their fortunes, so consequently with a less generous people than Americans, they might be compelled to retire beyond the Lakes, but as we prefer clemency to rigor, as we pur- suade ourselves that their Eyes are open to their error & that they have found by fatal experience that their true interest & safety depend upon our friendship; as the country is large enough to contain & support us all, & as we are disposed to be kind to them, to supply their wants and partake of their trade; we from these considerations & from motives of compassion draw a veil over what is passed, and will establish a boundary line between them and us, beyond which we will restrain our Citizens from hunting and setling & within which the Indians shall not come, but for the purposes of trading, treating or other business equally unexceptionable. Fourthly, that the following lines shall be proposed to be mutually agreed upon & established between the United States and the several tribes of Indians who shall be effected thereby; Beginning at the mouth of the great Miami River, which empties into the Ohio, thence along the said River Miamis to its confluence with the Mad River, thence by a direct line to the Miamis Fort at the Village of that name on the other Miamis River, which empties into Lake Erie, thence along the last mentioned river to Lake Erie, comprehending all the lands between the above mentioned lines, & the State of Pennsylvania on the East, Lake Erie on the North, and the river Ohio on the South-East. Fifthly, that the commissioners for the Northern & middle departments, or such other persons as may be appointed by Congress, unite together in holding one convention with the Indians inhabiting the districts aforesaid & their Allies & dependants for the purposes aforesa" & only yield to separate con- ventions in case of inevitable necessity. Sixthly, and whereas the Oneidas and Tuscarora tribes have adhered to the cause of America and joined her arms in the course of the late war, & Congress had fre- quently assured them of peculiar marks of favour & friendship, the said commissioners are therefore instructed to re-assure the said
Page 123
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 123 tribes of the friendship of the United States, that they may rely that the lands which they claim as their inheritance will be reserved for their sole use and benefit until they may think it for their own advantage to dispose of the same. Seventhly, that the said com- missioners be, and they are hereby instructed to obtain a particular account of the French Inhabitants at Detroit, Illinois and other Villages within the territories of the United States, & that they give assurances in the name of the United States, to those Inhabitants who shall profess their allegeance to the United States that they shall be protected in the full enjoyments of their liberty, & their just & lawfull property. Eightly, that the said Commissioners be, & they are hereby instructed not to admit into a treaty with the said Indians or suffer to be in any manner connected with it any article stipulation or condition whatsoever making or conforming or tend- ing to make or confirm to any individual or individuals any Grant or Grants of land whether real or pretended within the bounds of the United States as before described. Ninthly, that the said Commissioners be, & they are hereby also instructed to obtain Information of the numbers & place of resi- dence of the Citizens of the United States, who have seated them- selves on the North-west side of the Ohio; to signify to them the displeasure of Congress, that they have taken this step with which the public Interest and repose are so intimately connected without permission or authority, and to discourage to the utmost of their power, all intrusions into any of the territories of the United States, within their respective departments. - And, whereas the trade with the Indians ought to be regulated & security be given by the trader for the punctual observance of such regulations, so that violence, fraud and injustice towards the Indians may be guarded against & prevented, & the honor of the federal government & the public tranquility thereby promoted. Resolved, that a committee be appointed, with instructions to prepare and report an Ordinance for regulating the Indian Trade, with a clause therein, Strictly prohibiting all Civil & Military Officers, particu- larly all Commissioners & Agents for Indian affairs, from trading with the Indians or purchasing or being directly or indirectly con- cerned in purchasing lands from the Indians, except only by the ex- press licence & authority of the United States, in Congress Assem- bled. The Members chosen Mr. Clarke, Mr. Carroll & Mr. Montgomery. Resolved, that the preceeding measures of Congress relative to Indian affairs, shall not be construed to affect the territorial claims of any of the States, or their legislative rights within their respective limits. The committee in their report observe further that they do not Offer the measures which they have suggested as a sufficient security against the increase of feeble, disorderly & dispersed settlements in those remote & wide-extended territories; against the depravity of
Page 124
124 PENNSYLVANLA ARCHIVES 1783. manners, which they have a tendency to produce; the endless per- plexities in which they must involve the administration of the affairs of the United States, or against the calamities of frequent and destructive wars with the Indians, which reciprocal animosities unrestrained by the interposition of legal authority must naturally excite, & that in their opinion, nothing can avert those complicated & impending mischiefs, or secure to the United States the just and important advantages which they ought to derive from those territo- ries; but the speedy establishment of Government & the regular administration of justice in such district thereof, as shall be judged most convenient for immediate Settlement & Cultivation. Whereupon Resolved, that it will be wise and necessary as soon as circumstances shall permit, to erect a district of the western territory into a district Government as well for doing justice to the Army of the United States, who are entitled to lands as a bounty or in reward of their services, as for the accommodation of such as may incline to become purchasers and inhabitants, & in the interim that a Committee be appointed to report a plan consistent with the principles of the Confederation for connecting with the Union by a temporary Governm'. The purchasers & inhabitants of the said district untill their number & circumstances shall entitle them to form a permanent constitution for themselves & as Citizens of a free sovereign & independent State to be admitted to a repre- sentation in the Union provided always that such constitution shall not be incompatable with the republican principles, which are the basis of the constitutions of the respective States in the Union.— The Members Chosen, Mr. Duane, Mr. Madison & Mr. S. Huntington. The United States in Congress Assembled Thursday, October 30th, 1783. Whereas it appears that the application of the legislature of Pennsylvania relative to a treaty of the purchase of the Indian Claim to lands within the jurisdiction of that State, proceeded from a respectful attachment to the foederal Government, & a desire to guard against prejudices, which might arise from the interference of their own particular views with the authority of the United States; that the public interest might have been deeply affected by ne- É. for such purchase, independent of & unconnected with the eneral treaty, to be holden on behalf of the United States. Resolved, that the commissioners for holding the convention with the Indians under the act of the fifteenth day of October, instant, give notice to the Supreme executive of the State of Pennsylvania of the time & place of holding such treaty to the end that the per- sons to be appointed by that State for purchasing lands within the limits thereof, at the expence of the said state, may attend for the Sole purpose of making such purchase at the time & place appointed
End of Section 46. Continue to next section or 
Section 47
Page 125
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 125 for holding the said treaty, & the Commissioners on the part of the United States, are instructed to give every assistance in their power to the commissioners who may be appointed on the part of Pennsyl- vania towards promoting the interest of that State as far as the same may consist with the General interest of the Union. Indorsed,—1783, recº January 24th. Report of a Committee of Congress of the 25th September, 1783, digested into a Resolu- tion & Transmitted to the Gen. Assembly on the 29th of Jan. J. A. Read 1 time Jany 29, 1784. MICHAEL HUFFNAGLE TO MAJ. John ARMSTRONG, 1783. Pittsburg, September 25th, 1783 Dear Sir, Inclosed I send you Col. Coxe's answer to the Questions I put to him, which you'll please to communicate to Council, from the answer of Mr. Campbell and Col. Cox they both mention that they look upon me as an interested person. (I shall always think myself happy and shall always be ready to comply with any request that Council may demand of me Consistent with my duty) for which reason I could wish that some other person might be mentioned, although at the same time if Council think proper that I should finish the Business, I shall with pleasure do it. I have the Honor to be, your most obt. Hbble. Servt. MICH. HUFFNAGLE. Major John Armstrong. I would mention that if I did not before that what Cox was Indicted for was for acting after the agreement. M. N Directed,—Major John Armstrong, GABRIEL Cox To MICHAEL HUFFNAGLE, 1783. Sir, I am not so much of a Lawyer as to be able perfectly to comprehend the drift or meaning of the several Questions you were pleased to put to me, in your favour without date, but if I was to give my opinion, would declare they seem rather calculated to perplex rather than investigate the matter. I heartily and sincerely wish the Executive Council to be truly informed of every thing relative to the prose- cutions, or what might be now properly called persecutions against me in this County for executing my duty as an officer of Virginia & shall be very ready to answer them or any person disinterested, every Question that can lead to information on the subject, you or any person can by recurrring to the Clerks offices of Washin County have, if you choose to be at the expence, Copies of all the 6+ -
Page 126
126 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1788. records there, my costs already have been so considerable, I wish to have no more. If you choose to report this answer of mine to the Executive Council of Penn. by whose'orders you say you act you will be pleased to communicate it entire, and hope they will be pleased to accept of it as Sufficient apoligy for my not being more particular at this time and am, Sir, your most Obdt. Hble. Servt. GABRIEL COX. Directed, Michael Huffnagle, Esqr., Pittsburg. DELEGATES IN CONGRESS TO ASSEMBLY, 1783. - Princeton, Sept. 25th, 1783. Sir, We have the Honor to transmit the Proceedings of Congress on the Subject of the Instructions of the Honble. House relative to the K. Purchase of the Indians inhabiting or claiming Part of the erritory of Pennsylvania. By those Proceeding the House will perceive the obstacles to a Compliance with their Wishes. The Committee on Indian Affairs have made a Report which is now before Congress & this Day is appointed for its Discussion. The Principals of that Report militate against the Ideas of the House with Respect to the proposed Purchase. It is intended to insist as Part of the Forms of Peace that the Savages shall without Compensation abandon Part of their Country to the United States who claim it by Conquest & as a Retribution for the Expence & Damages incurred by the hostile & cruel Conduct of the Savages contrary to the Advice & Injunctions of the United States. A Boundary Line is proposed to be established between the Indians & the Citizens of these States & it was believed that if any particular State made a Purchase it would obstruct the general Measures, as the Indians would not agree to the Dereliction of any Part of their Country as a Compensation for the Expences & Ravages occasioned by the War when they find that tho' the general Council refuse it they can obtain Money for it from the Individual States. Whether these Principles be just or the Policy adviseable we do not pretend to determine. We held it our Duty to state the Impediment preventing Congress from agreeing to the Propositions of the States & leave the Honble. House to determine as they in their Wisdom shall think proper. We have the Honor to be, with the greatest Respect your very obedt. Servants, JOHN MONTGOMERY, RICHARD PETERS. Directed, On public Service, Honble. F. A. Muhlenberg Speaker of the Honble House of Assembly of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. -
End of Section 47. Continue to next section or 
Section 48
Page 127
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 127 RECRUITING INSTRUCTIONS FOR MAJOR M00RE, 1783. Recruiting Instruction for Major Moore, 1783. In Council Philadelphia, September 26th, 1783. Sir, Agreeably to our Communications of yesterday, you will proceed immediately to inlist and embody two Companies of Infantry con- sisting of one Serjeant Major, one Quarter Master Serjeant, eight Serjeants, eight Corporals, Two Drummers, Two Fifers, and one hundred and twenty six privates. In performing this service you will please to conform strictly to the following rules. First, To guard against imposition, every Recruit, before his attestation be signed is to be carfully examined, least he should have a rupture, fits or some other disease which may render him incapable of performing the more active duties of the Soldier. All such are to be absolutely rejected, and those of the best Character, both as Soldiers and Men to be selected. Secondly, When an unexceptionable Recruit shall be engaged, you are to take or send him to some Justice of the Peace who finding him to be sober, and having read to him the form of the inlistment receipt and attestation is to cause such Recruit to sign the said inlistment and receipt and then to administer to him the oath herewith inclosed; duplicates of which attestation inlistment and receipt, the Justice shall witness. Of these one copy is to be transmitted to this Board; The other you will retain in your own hands. - Thirdly, The inclosed form of Enlistment receipt and attestation is to be invariably observed. Fourthly, As an encouragement to such Recruit immediately to inlist you are authorized to offer on the part of the State the fol- lowing Ration, one pound of flour, one pound of beef, or three quarters of a pound of Pork & one gill of whiskey perman per Day, one quart of Salt & two quarts of Winegar to every hundred rations, Eight pounds of Soap & three pounds of Candles to every seven hundred rations, one suit of Regimental Cloaths annually consisting of one Regimental Coat, one woollen West, one pair of woollen Over- alls, one blanket, two Shirts, two pair of Shoes, two pair of Socks, one Hat, and ten Watch Coats to each Company and the following Monthly pay to wit. * -- Serjeant Major & Quarter Master Serjeant, each, eight dollars . Month. Serjeants, - - - - - - - seven dollars, do. Corporals, . - - - - - five dollars, do. Drums and Fifes and } Privates, . . . . . . four dollars, do.
End of Section 48. Continue to next section or 
Section 49
Page 128
128 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783, Fifthly, As an additional encouragement to the service, you are at Liberty to give any sum not exceeding four dollars for every sufficient stand of arms and accoutrements furnished by the Recruit whom you may engage. Sixthly, No furloughs to be given to any Recruit till’ the farther order of Council. Seventhty, Council expect a weekly report of your progress in this business, till’ it be concluded. I am &c., J. D. * Acknowledgement and Attestation of y Name. Age. Height. Complexion. Place Born. Trade or Occupation. Remarks. I do acknowledge myself to be fairly and truly inlisted in the service or the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and corps of foot commanded by Major James Moore, for the space of two years, unless sooner discharged; and that I have received the sum of in advance of pay. In witnesss whereof, I have set my hand, this day of Anno Domini, 178 Witness I do swear to be true and faithful to the commonwealth of Penn- sylvania; that I will faithfully serve it in the corps of foot comman- ded by Major James Moore, for the space of two years from the date of this attestation, unless sooner discharged; and that I will be obedient to the orders of the Supreme Executive Council, the Legislature of the state, and the Officers by them set over me, according to the continental articles of war, or such other articles as some future assembly of the state may establish for the government of the corps to which I belong. So help me God. Sworn before me this s day of 178 Directed,—(on publc service) To Major James Moore present, PROCEEDINGS OF AssEMBLY ON INTERNAL CoMMERCE, 1783. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Monday, September 15, 1783, A. M., The report of the committee appointed to hold conferences with the city merchants, read September 10, was read the second time, and adopted as follows, viz;
Page 129
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 129 That they have had sundry conferences with a committee of the merchants of Philadelphia touching the inland commerce of this State, that they are sorry to find the same subjected to so many obstructions owing to the ruinous condition of the public roads throughout this state—no object however strikes your committee in so forcible a manner, as that of conducting the streams of commerce from the river Susquehanna to the port of Philadelphia; This your committee are fully satisfied, can be done in no other mode so easy as by improving the navigation of the Schuylkill up to Reading, and making durable and lasting roads from thence to such part or parts of the Susquehanna as offer the most easy communication with the fertile lands westward thereof—A town or towns laid out and encouraged by government, in such situation or situations on the east side of the said river, would, in the opinion of your committee, be attended with capital advantages to the trade of Philadelphia, as every inhabitant of such town or towns would in some degree be a factor for the Philadelphia market. Your Committee therefore offer the following resolutions to the honorable House. First,--To view the different roads leading from Susquehanna to Reading and Philadelphia, and point out the most practicable mode of improving and repairing the same, and to consider of the most probable way of opening a communication between the rivers Susquehanna and Schuylkill—to form estimates of the expences to carry the above designs into execution and to report their pro- eeedings with all possible expedition to the next House of Assembly. Second,-To receive the proposals of such person or persons as may offer lands to the public for the purpose of building a town or towns on the east bank of the Susquehanna. Third,—To examine the navigation of the Susquehanna to the sources of the same, and ascertain as near as conveniently may be, where the northern boundary of this state will fall, particularly whether any part of lake Erie is within the state of Pennsylvania, taking particular notes of the nature and geography of the county as to the practicability of roads, water carriage, air, soil, natural productions, &ca. On motion,” Resolved, that the same Commissioners view the river Delaware, and report to the next Assembly, the most probable mode of re- moving every obstruction, and improving the navigation thereof, with an estimate of the expence. Ordered, that this house will on Saturday next proceed to elect six Commissioners for the purposes contained in the foregoing resolutions. Saturday, September 20, 1783, A. M., Agreeable to the order for the day, the House proceeded to elect six Commissioners for the purposes expressed in the resolutions adopted September 15, and the ballots being taken, it appeared,
Page 130
130 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. that David Rittenhouse, Thomas Hutchins, and Nathan Sellers, Esquires, were duly elected for performing the duties mentioned in the first and second of the aforesaid resolutions—and that William Maclay, James Wilkinson and William Montgomery, Esquires, were also duly elected for the performing the duties mentioned in the third and in the last of those resolutions. On motion, i t- Ordered, that Mr. Delaney, Mr. G. Gray and Mr. Slough be a committee to report instructions to the Commissioners above named, conformable to the resolutions adopted September 15, * . Friday, September 26, 1783, A. M. The report of the committee, appointed to report instructions to the Commissioners nominated to view the different roads leading from Susquehanna to Reading and Philadelphia, and to consider of the most probable mode of opening a communication between the rivers Susquehanna and Schuylkill, and of improving the navigation of the river Delaware; read September 23, was read the second time and adopted as follows, (viz.) us Gentlemen, The intentions of the Assembly to promote the welfare and hap- piness of the State, are so fully explained in the resolutions pointing out your duty, that it would be needless and unnecessary to be more particular, it remains therefore only to inform you, it is the earnest desire of the House, that you proceed with all possible ex- pedition on the business of your appointment, and that every neces- ary expence attending the prosecution of your duty, will be paid out of the treasury of the State on orders drawn by the president in Council, to whom you are to apply, and report to them an estimate of such Instruments and other necessaries as you may want. Inclosed you have a copy of the resolutions, to which you will give particular attention. ... On motion, Resolved, that the Commissioners appointed to view the obstruc- tions to the navigation of the river Delaware, be, and the same are hereby appointed Commissioners in behalf of this State in conjunc- tion with Commissioners on behalf of the State of New Jersey, to ascertain and determine what Islands in the river Delaware above the falls of Trenton belong to each state, agreeable to the Law in that case made and provided, passed September, 20 instant. - Extract from the minutes, PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly. as *
Page 131
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 131 SIR GUY CARLETON TO PREs. DICKINsoN, 1783. ... I - New York, 27th September, 1783. Sir, * I have delayed answering your Excellency's letter of the 5th Instant* untill now, in hopes that some of the offenders named in the Proclamations and certificates you enclosed, might have been found and apprehended here. But although diligent enquiry has been made, it has hitherto been without success. Should any of those fugitives from Justice be discovered here while I remain, they shall be apprehended and I will inform your Excellency thereof. I am Sir, your Excellency's most obedient and most humble servant GUY CARLETON. . Directed, To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq. CouncIL TO CAPT. P. SHRAWDER, 1783. In Council, - Philadelphia, September 27th, 1783. Sir, Council direct, that an accurate return of all public stores at Wyoming, may be immediately made for their information. I have also to inform you that in a late Election by this Board you were appointed to the command of one of the two companies to be raised for the farther defence of this Commonwealth. The recruiting of this Corps is specially committed to the Commanding Officer Major James Moore of the Pennsylvania Line whose orders you will hereafter obey. Council conceive it necessary that you should continue at the post and proceed to act in that line of deligence and industry which has already so well deserved their approbation. Many reasons make it prudent, if not necessary, that this appoint- ment should be concealed from the Garrison. Among others it is to be feared that if they were acquainted with it they might relax in their obedience. You will be pleased to make immediate report whether Mr. Weitzle has closed with the proposals of Council, and what º of provisions you have on hand. ann with much respect - * your most obedient . , * and very humble servant, , .* JOHN ARMSTRONG, jr., Sec'y., Directed, On public Service, º To Captain Philip Schrawder, of the Rangers, at Wyoming. * Seepage 101. *. - .
End of Section 49. Continue to next section or 
Section 50
Page 132
132 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. PREs. DICKINSON, To MAJ. J. MooRE. In Council, October 18", 1783. Sir, Council fully confiding in your Integrity, Ability & Industry, commits to you the important charge, the Fort and Post at Wyom- ing, and wishes you & the other officers now in Town, to repair to that place as soon as possible with the Men that are inlisted. We do not doubt but the utmost care will be taken that the Troops behave themselves regularly, & that not the least injury be done to any of the Citizens of the State. Upon your arrival there, you will endeavour to complete the Companies by enlisting such of the soldiers in the Garrison as may be approved of agreeably to the Instructions we have given, & who have no improper Connection in the neighbourhood. If a sufficient number of such Men cannot be pro- cured in the Garrison, we would desire, that an officer may be sent down to this City to make up the Complement. As you go by Harris's Ferry you will take with you such of the Military stores at that place as may be necessary. Peculiar Circumstances strongly point out the propriety of desir- ing you in a very particular Manner constantly to employ the utmost Vigilance & Alertness for the security of the Fort, & the Maintenance of the Station. It is expected (as in the Instructions to Captains, R. & S.)* It is our desire that as long as it may be necessary to keep up the garrison, it shall at no timé be left without a supply of one Month's provisions in stock for the compleat Establishment of the two com- W. ; and that for this purpose you will correspond with John eitzel Esquire. We should be glad to have a return of all the millitary stores, and early, frequent & exact Intelligence of your proceedings & of every circumstance that may concern the Interest of the State. With the most entire Reliance upon your Fidelity Prudence and Activity, I am Sir, your most obdt. & hble. servt., JOHN DICKINSON. P. S.—On your arrival at Wyoming you will please to muster and inspect the troops now there, making exact returns to us, You will then express to the Officers & Soldiers, the grateful sense we enter- tain of their services and discharge them. <> Directed, To Major James Moore. * See page 100. Robinson and Shrawder.
Page 133
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 133 THE PETITION of THE INHABITANTs of York Town, 1783. To His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President, and the Honourable Executive Council of the Common-Wealth of Pennsylvania, now sitting at Philadelphia, October, 1783. Most humbly Shew, That a Number of Troops (commonly called Armand's Legion,) have been Quartered among Your Petitioners about ten Months ago; and that many of said Troops are very mischievous and troublesome to Your Petitioners, but they contrive it so Crafty that it is a hard matter to discover the Fact, and have them brought to Justice, and which they conceive would be equally dangerous. And that Your Petitioners have been very Subtilly deceived at first, being only required to keep them for a few Days, but have been here ever since, and no likelihood of being yet removed. And that many of Your Petitioners might have had the Benefit of Letting some Apartments of their Dwelling, was it not, that some of said Troops were Quartered therein. And that Your Petitioners presume to be highly injured in their Property and deprived of their Liberty, (which they conceive to be equally intitled to enjoy the same, as other faithful Citizens of this Common-Wealth,) if the said Troops are not immediately removed from this Place. And that Your Petitioners would be willing to bear the Burthen with patience, were it General throughout this Common-Wealth. Your Petitioners therefore most earnestly solicit Your Excellency and the Honourable Council, to lend an Ear to their Excessive Bur- then some Grievances, and Order that the said Troops may be Quar- tered in Barracks, which your Petitioners presume would be more convenient and agreeable to the Troops, and less Injurious to Indi- viduals, and would Relieve Your Petitioners of a very heavy and disagreeable Burthen, in which they most humbly Pray Redress. And Your Petitioners as in duty bound, &c., will pray. Joseph Welshance, Philip Rothrock, John Moore, Samuel Leedy, John Jones, George Miles, Frederick Lowmaster, Andrew Weyer, Henry Wolff, junior, Jacob Garnet, Anth Weyer, Reraid Harr, Jacob Updegraff, Henry Cuningham, Jacob Geartner, Joseph Updegraff, John Haller, William Welch, Jacob Luther, Martin Ragb, Caleb Kirk, John Myer, George Finck, Samuel Fisher, Adam Grover, John Can, Jacob Worly, Francis Worley, Martin Bound, John Lieut, John Rothrock, Josua Purit, Martin Cronmillon, Benjamin Gorgas, Alexander Brau, John Sheafer, Samuel Gorgas, John McIntire, Sam' Updergraff, and others.
End of Section 50. Continue to next section or 
Section 51
Page 134
134 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. A PROCLAMATION FoR THANKSGIVING BY CONGRESS, 1783. By The United States in Congress Assembled. Whereas it hath pleased the Supreme Ruler of all human Events to dispose the hearts of the late belligerent power to put a period to the Effusion of human blood, by proclaiming a Cessation of all hostilities by sea & land, and these United States are not only hap- pily rescued from the dangers & calamities to which they have been so long Exposed, but their freedom sovereignity & Independence ultimately acknowledged: And, Whereas in the progress of a con- test on which the most essential rights of human nature depended, the interposition of divine providence in our favor hath been Most abundantly & most graciously manifested, and the Citizens of these United States have every reason for praise & gratitude to the God of their salvation. Impressed therefore with an exalted sense of the blessings by which we are surrounded, & of our entire dependence on that Almighty being, from whose Goodness and bounty they are de- rived, The United States in Congress Assembled, do recommend it to the the several States to set a part the second Thursday in December next, as a day of public thanksgiving, that all the people may then as- semble to celebrate with grateful hearts and united voices the praises of their supreme & all bountiful Benefactor, for his numberless favours & mercies—That he hath been pleased to Conduct us in safety through all the perils & vicissitudes of the war; that he hath given us unanimity and resolution to adhere to our just rights; that he hath raised up a powerful ally to assist us in supporting them, & hath so far crowned our United Efforts with success, that in the course of the present year, hostilities have ceased and we are left in the undisputed possession of our liberties and Independence, and of the fruits of our own lands, and in the free participation of the Treasures of the Sea; that he hath pros- pered the labour of our husbandmen with plentiful harvests; and above all, that he hath been pleased to continue to us the light of . the blessed Gospel & secured to us in the fullest extent, the rights of conscience in faith and Worship; And while our hearts overflow with gratitude, and our lips set forth the praises of our Great Creator, that we also offer up fervent supplications, that it may please him to pardon all our offences, to give wisdom and unani- mity to our public Councils, to Cement all our Citzens in the bonds of affection and to inspire them with an Earnest regard for the National honor and interest, to enable them to improve the days of prosperity by every good work and to be lovers of peace & tran- quility; that he may be pleased to bless us in our husbandry, our commerce and navigation; to smile upon our seminaries & means of Education, to cause pure religion & virtue to flourish, to give peace to all nations and to fill the world with his Glory.
Page 135
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 135 Done by the United States in Congress Assembled—Witness his Excellency, Elias Boudinot, our President, this Eighteenth Day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and Eighty-three, and of the Sovereignty and Independence of the United States of America, the Eighth. CHA. THOMson, SEC'y. ELIAS BOUDINOT.” CAPT. J.A. CHRYSTIE TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. S Easton, October 22d, 1783. Ir wi I have arrived here this morning at 9 o'Clock, the Detachment in good order, only two of the soldiers which I shall take the liberty to discharge as unfit for service, The one has fits & the other is in such a situation from his own faults that he will be on the Doctor's list during the term of his inlistment. Your Excellency will see the reason for the waggons being allowed for six days. The two first days owing to the badness of the weather we got no further than Flower Town about twelve miles from Phila. & he is allowed two days to return. I expect to have everything ready to march this evening & will set out to morrow morning. I have the honor to be, your Excellency's most obedient Servant, JA. CHRYSTIE, Capt. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr., President of the State Penna. PREs. OF CONGRESS. To PREs. DICKINSON, 1788. (Circular.) Princeton, 22 October, 1783. Sir, Your Excellency will receive enclosed herewith a Proclamation of Congress of the 10th instant,f recommending to the several States, to set apart the second Thursday in December next, as a day of public Thanksgiving. I have the honor to be, with great respect, Your Excellency's Most obd and very humb. Servt., - ELIAS BOUDINOT. Directed, His Excellency, The President of Pennsylvania. * See Col. Rec. Wol., XIII., p. 746. f See page 186.
Page 136
136 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. CoMMISSIONERS OF WASHINGTON Co., To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Washington County, Oct' 25, 1783. Sir, By order of Council we receiv'd a letter the 20th of September, bearing Date the 24th of July, informing that the Executive of this State are astonished at the Inattention with which their Repre- sentation on that subject have been Received. Permit us to say that every thing in our power has been adopted to further your Honors wish; our County Tax has been laid and will soon be adjusted. And before this time might been completed, but for the lateness of receiving the tax Bill, which was near the latter end of June, and then so few, that they in no wise answered the Demand of the County; so that Business was done with the greatest Difficulty, but is nearly surmounted. Altho' we are certain every twentieth person cannot comply with the laws Requirement. Sir, we Remain your Honors * Obedt Hble. Servts. JOHN M’DOWELL, THOS. CROOKS, GEORGE McCORMICK, Commissioners. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President of the Execu- tive Council of Pennsylvania. RESOLUTION OF CONGRESS, REMOVAL, 1783. By the United States in Congress Assembled October 30th, 1783. That in case a president shall not be chosen on or before the 12* Day of November next, the Secretary adjourn Congress on that day to meet at Annapolis on the 26th of said Month, according to the Resolution of the 20th Idstant. On the Question to agree to this, the yeas & nays being required by Mr. Peters. Massachusetts. Mr. Holten, ay. Mr. Osgood, ay }•y Rhode Island. Mr. Ellery, ay. - Mr. Howell, ay. ay Connecticut. Mr. S. Huntington, ay. Mr. B. Huntington, ay. j."
Page 137
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 137 New York. - Mr. Duane, no. Mr. L'Hommedieu, no. J." New Jersey. Mr. Boudinot, In O. Mr. Condict, no. "9 Pensylvania. Mr. Montgome In O. y Mr. #. ry, no. "9 Maryland. Mr. Carroll, ay. Mr. M'Henry, ay, jºy Virginia. t Mr. Lee, ay. Mr. Mercer, ay. ay No Carolina. Mr. Hawkins, ay. Mr. Williamson, ay. j “W South Carolina. Mr. Read, ay. Mr. Berresford, ay.j "y So it was Resolved in the affirmative. A Motion was made by Mr. Lee seconded by Mr. Holten, That a Committee be appointed to repair to the lower falls of Patomack to view the situation of the country in the vicinity of the same, and report a proper District for carrying into effect the reso- lution of the 21* of October. Whereupon, A motion was made by Mr. Howell, seconded by Mr. Carroll, to amend the foregoing motion by adding. And that the Committee appointed on the 7th day of October, Instant, to report the most suitable place for erecting Buildings for the accommodations of Congress near the falls of the Delaware, be directed to report as soon as may be. On the Question to agree to this amendment the yeas & nays being required by Mr. Howell. Massachusetts. - Mr. Holten, ay. a Mr. Osgood, ay. y Rhode Island. Mr. Ellery, ay. a Mr. Howell, ay. | *y Connecticut. Mr. S. Huntington, ay. Mr. B. Huntington, ay. *y - New York. Mr. Duane, no. Mr. L'Hammedieu, no. 5" New Jersey, Mr. Boudinot, In O. Mr. Condict, no. "9 Pennsylvania, Mr. Montgomery, no. Mr. Peters, no. no Maryland, - Mr. Carroll, *y law Mr. McHenry, ay. y Virginia, Mr. Lee, *y. a Mr. Mercer, ay. y No. Carolina, Mr. Hawkins, *y. a º Mr. Williamson, ay. y Sa. Carolina, . Mr. Read, *y. a Mr. Berresford, ay. } y So it was resoloved in the affirmative. ~
Page 138
138 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1788. On the Question to agree to the motion of Mr. Lee which was divided from the amendment at the request of a Member the yeas & nays being required by Mr. Peters. Massachussetts, Mr. Holton, *7 law. Mr. Osgood, ay. y. Rhode Island, Mr. Ellery, ay. a Mr. Howell, ay. ; */ Connecticut, - Mr. S. Huntington, ay. , - Mr. B. Huntington, ay. y. New York, Mr. Duane, *9. no Mr. L'Hommedieu, no. Il New Jersey, Mr. Boudinot, no. no Mr. Condict, In O. - Pennsylvania, Mr. Montgomery, no. no - Mr. Peters, In O. - Maryland, Mr. Carroll, ay. a Mr. McHenry, ay. } y. Virginia, Mr. Lee, ay. a Mr. Mercer, ay. y. No. Carolina, Mr. Hawkins, ay. a Mr. Williamson, ay, j " So. Carolina, Mr. Read, ay. Mr. Berresford, ay. ay. So it was resolved in the affirmative. The second part was agreed to and the whole was as follows, Resolved, That a Committee be appointed to repair to the lower falls of Potomack to view the situation of the Country in the vicinity of the same and report a proper District for carrying into effect the resolution of 21st of October and that the Committee appointed on the 7th of October to report the most suitable place for erecting Buildings for the accommodation of Congress near the falls of the Delaware be directed to report as soon as may be. The Members Mr. Hawkins, Mr. Gerry, Mr. Carroll, Mr. Mercer, & Mr. Williamson. A motion was then made by Mr. Howell seconded by Mr. Mercer. That the President transmit to the Executives of New Jersey Pennsylvania, Maryland, & Virginia, Copies of the acts of Congress of the 7th Instant respecting Buildings to be erected for a federal Town on the Banks of the Delaware, and of the act of the 21st In- stant respecting Buildings to be erected on the Banks of Potomack for a second federal town, and the adjournment of Congress to Annapolis and that Copies be also transmitted to the several other States in the Union. A Division was called for and a question taken on the first clause as far as “Delaware” inclusive passed in the affiirmative. On the Question to agree to the second clause froſº Delaware to the end, the yeas and nays being required by Mr. Peters.
Page 139
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 139 Massachussetts, Mr. Holten, ay. Mr. Osgood, ay. } ay. Rhode Island, Mr. Ellery, ay. Mr. Howell, ay. } ay Connecticut, Mr. S. Huntington, ay. Mr. B. Huntington, ay. j." New York, Mr. Duane, *y. a Mr. L'Hommedieu, ay. y New Jersey, Mr. Boudinot, *y. Dd Mr. Condict, In O. Pennsylvania, Mr. Montgomery, no. Mr Peters, no. f* Maryland, Mr. Carroll, ay. Mr. McHenry, ay.j */ Virginia, Mr. Lee, ay. Mr. Mercer, ay. } ay No. Carolina, Mr. Hawkins, ay. Mr. Williamson, ay. } ay So, Carolina, Mr. Read, ay. Mr. Berresford, ay. } ay. So it was Resolved in the affirmative CHA. THOMSON, Secy. REPORT AND RESOLUTION OF CONGRESS, 1783. By the United States in Congress assembled. November 1, 1783. The committee consisting of Mr. Carroll, Mr. Duane and Mr. S. Huntington, to whom was referred a motion of Mr. Wilson, to devise means for procuring a full representation in Congress having reported, “That whether from the peculiar circumstances some of the states have been under during the war, or that the states in general were not sufficiently impressed with the importance of keeping up a constant representation in Congress, the committee cannot find on examining the journals, notwithstanding the repeated earnest recom- mendations for that purpose, that all the states have been repre- sented at the same time: it appears that frequently there have not been more than nine states, and too generally not more than a com- petent representation for the lesser objects of the confederation. As the articles of confederation are silent upon this subject, any further than by fixing the number of delegates for each state, and by de- claring how many shall constitute a representation, the committee presume such silence Was in consequence of a firm reliance that the states could not be inattentive to a duty not only essential to the
Page 140
140 PENNYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. interests of each state, but likewise to a principle on which the federal government itself rests. -The articles of confederation requiring, for certain purposes, the agreement of nine states, and as it has seldom happened more than that number have attended, the committee conceive, that not only the injury the public and individuals have suffered thereby, have been occasioned in many instances by the absence of the delegates of some of the states, but likewise that the spirit of the articles of confederation have been defeated, by making an unanimity neces- sary, whereas nine only out of thirteen are required. And the committee are further of opinion, that unless the states pursue effectual measures for keeping up a constant representation another material object of the confederation will be frustrated. The delays unavoidable for want of a full representation, will they conceive, oblige Congress to remain sitting the whole year, whereas by the articles of confederation it appears, that it was expected part of the business of the United States, would be transacted by a committee of the states. The committee therefore are of opinion, that it should be earnestly recommended to the respective states, to take the most effectual measures to maintain at all times while Congress are sit- ting, a full representation, that the delay of business, which has proved so injurious to the public, and grievous to individuals, may no longer be a subject of complaint. Resolved, That Congress agree to the said report. CHAS. THOMSON, Sec'y. M. HUFFNAGLE To PRESIDENT of CouncIL, 1783. Dr S, By Colonel Hays, I Received the Instructions from Council for the preserv, tion of the Timber upon the reserved tract opposite to Pittsburg & have accordingly Notified the People of the same. At the same time Mr. Boggs produced to me an agreement made with him by General Irwin, a Copy of which I have inclosed, & Council will be judges of the propriety or impropriety of the same in the mean time he is to remain on the Land until you shall give me further instructions on that Subject. I am much obliged to Council for the appointment they have sent me, at the same time, I could wish to have an associate. I can assure you it requires a great deal of attention & care to bring these People into Order, & it would require one constantly to be present here. - The Judges left this yesterday on their way to Washington &
End of Section 51. Continue to next section or 
Section 52
Page 141
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 141 they intend to return here on Saturday & I think they will be able to give Council a true State of the situation of this Country. I have the Honor to be your very H’ble Servº, MICH. HUFFNAGLE. Directed, To Major John Armstrong, Jr., Secretary Supream Executive Council, Philadelphia. Hon" by Mr. McKain. M. HUFFNAGLE TO SEC'Y ARMSTRONG, 1783. Dr Sº, Since I wrote you the officers & Soldiers of the Garrison are cutting their Wood within the Reserved Tract which will take off a great deal. I would likewise Mention if Council should incline to Lease out the Land it might be done to very good hands. MICH. HUFFNAGLE. Directed, Major John Armstrong. MEMORIAL AGAINST THEATRES IN PHILADELPHIA, 1783. To the President and Executive Council of Pennsylvania. The Memorial and Remonstrance of the Subscribers, Inhabitants of the City of Philadelphia, sheweth— That, understanding with equal apprehensions and regret, a de- sign is in agitation and preparations are making to open a Theatre in the Suburbs of this City for the exhibitions of Stage plays or other pernicious amusements of the like kind, we conceive it our duty to represent to you some general observations on the occasion in which the Virtue & Morals of the People are immediately inte- rested. Previously remarking as a real subject of peculiar thankfulness that it hath pleased the Sovereign Ruler of all human events to dispose the hearts of the powers lately “at War to put a stop to the effusion of human blood” by the restoration of peace whereby the people of this City and of the Continent in general are happily re- lieved from the dangers & Calamities to which they were so long exposed, and the interposition of divine Providence hath been re- markably conspicuous for our preservation in times of great ex- tremity, a serious recollection whereof ought to impress every Mind Wol. X–7. *
Page 142
142 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. “with humble gratitude to that Almighty Being from whose bounty & goodness all our blessings are derived,” but an attempt to intro- duce those scenes of Vanity, licentiousness and dissipation, is an instance of great inconsideration and depravity in those who are concerned in promoting them, as it is also a contemptuous violation of the Laws. The nature and tendency of those exhibitions unhappily intro- ducing a variety of intemperance, dissoluteness and debauchery, must necessarily affect every pious judicious mind with real concern and excite a tender compassion towards unwary Youth, whose Minds becoming vitiated by a taste of delusive pleasures grow indisposed to the regular laudable & virtuous satisfaction of domestic and social life, and are often gradually drawn into infidelity & corrupt princi- ples, of which experience hath given abundant proof in those places, where such ensnaring amusements are allowed and encouraged. We also take the liberty to remonstrate on this subject as it affects the respect and honour of magistracy, which Office is always rendered more difficult & perplexed by a greater variety of disorder & irregularity, and its power and authority must be weakened by a growing corruption of manners among the people; these diversions manifestly tending to such consequences, we request you would con- sider them in these points of view. And as the good order and subordination in Civil Society as well as the exercise of the divine and social Wirtues proceed from an attachment to the doctrine & precepts of the Christian Religion—can a design so evidently repugnant thereto, and experimentally mischie- vous in practice deserve the least encouragement —and should it not be discountenanced and suppressed in the most effectual manner? agreeable to the provision made by the Law in which the disappro- bation of such irreligious & impolitic amusements is declared by the Legislature. A consideration of the vicious impressions which a taste for these diversions must stamp on the Youth & others, the prejudice that must accrue to Industry & frugality thereby—the increase of dis- orders weakening the authority of magistrates—and above all the open and visible detriment to true Religion—We hope and desire may prevail with you so effectually to interpose your authority and power as to put an entire stop to the undertaking, however plausibly disguised to elude the penalties of the Law. John Reynell, John Guest, Saml. Lewis, Isaac Zane, William Norton, Richard Jones, Anthony Benezet, Joseph Bringhurst, Saml. Clark, Jam's Pemberton, James Bringhurst, James Starr, Charles West, Dan'l Drinker, William Cliffton, David Bacon, Jno. Lynn, John Townsend, liezekiah Williams, Ebenezer Robinson, Jno. Birchall, Tho's Hallowell, James Whiteall, Owen Jones, David Evans, Thomas Rogers, Sam. Hopkins, Saml. Emlen, James Truman, Hugh Roberts,
Page 143
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1788. 143 Saml. Garrigues, Daniel Offley, junr., Chas Jervis, Calcb Carmalt, Caleb Attmore, Christopher White, Joseph Drinker. Robert Evans, Jesse Williams, Joshua Yarnall, Thomas Rogers, junr., John Payne, Rich'd Humphreys, John Elliott, D. Lawson, Edward Jones, Jos. Hilborn, Wm. Pusey, Jonathan Dawes, George Guest, Danl. Offley, Thos. Masterman, Abraham Liddon, Benj. Hooton, Jerem’h Cresson, William Brewer, Joseph Budd, Joseph Richardson, Saml. Pleasants, Owen Biddle, John Elliott, junr., John Todd, Joseph James, Rich’d Adams, Edward Garrigues, Isaac Paxson, Joseph Moore, Jos. Sharpless, John Evans, Jon'a Evans, junior, Joseph Bacon, Joseph Clark, Sam. Emlen, Benj'n Hickman, Caleb Cresson, James Todd, Jon'a Pusey, junr., Thos. Attmore, Joshua Cresson, Solomon White, Job Bacon, Joshua R. Smith, Thos. Parke, Samuel Jones, Ellis Yarnall, John Drinker, Jacob Shoemaker, William Sykes, Arthur Howell, Robt. Wood, Richard Humphreys, Townsend Speakman, James Cresson, Joseph Shoemaker, Thomas Parker, John Haworth, Samuel Hampton, Evan Truman, Charles Williams, George Williams, John Field, Israel Jones, Alexr. Elmslie, Isaac Phipps, Edw'd Penington, John Thomson, Jos. Saunders, Samuel Taylor, Samuel Bettle, Tho. Ross, John Todd, Junr., Isaac Lewis, James Bettle, Jos. Richardson, jr., John Poultney, Benj. Hornor, Tho. W. Smith, John Duncan, Robt. Lewis, Saml. Coates, Thomas Trotter, William Jackson, Robert Worrill, Jonathan Worrill, Thos. Shoemaker, Israel Whelen, Rich'd Thomas, Thomas Follett, Robert Coe, Charles Marshall, Thomas Hough, Hugh Roberts, John Morton, Thomas Fisher, Chris. Marshall, jr., Benj'n Oldden, Abijah Dawes, Benj. Humphreys, John Starr, Thos. Poultney, John Bissell, George Dillham, John Forster, IIugh Howell, John Burden, Thos. Howard, William Savery, Joshua Howell, Thomas Williams, Miers Fisher, Daniel Trotter, William Savery, jr., Tho. Franklin, Samuel Story, Saml. Lobdell, James Birchall, Samuel Briggs, Robt. Haydock, John Oldden, Thos. Harrison, Wm. Brown, Samuel Noble, junr., Everard Bolton, Joseph Russell, Richard Hopkins, John Parrish, Saml. Rhoads, Samuel Rhoads, jr., Philadelphia, the eighth day of 11th month, 1783. Indorsed, The Memorial of some of the People commonly called Quakers. Read 10th Nov., 1783.
Page 144
144 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. Philada. Novembr. 10th, 1783. Mr. N. Garrison, Sir, I am directed by Council to know what will be the lowest terms you will take to efect the whole of the Business on the principal of your first proposition as that seems to be the line in which they would choose to have it done. I am Sir, your Humble servt. FRAN. GURNEY. No. 1. MESSRs. De BRUSSINE & GARRIson.—CHEvaux-DE-FRIZE, 1783. We would desire to know previously, whether it is to be under- stood that the Chevaux De Frise are intirely to be removed. Or if it will suffice to take them down as far as the Ballast. Untill that is known it is difficult to fix the Sum. But in the latter Case, to take them down as far as the Ballast only, will suffice. In that Case We require the Sum of Four Thousand Pounds, to defray all Expences, and run all risques, agreeable to our proposition. In Case the above Sum is considered too large, We propose an- other, less expensive—namely. We will take Twelve Hundred pounds, which shall be first paid after the Experiment is made and aproved of. As the whole may be done for £2000, including the £1200 above. Seeing every article that is wanted to the operation is supposed to belong to the publick, and need not first be purchased. We will agree to either of the proposals.” DE BRUSSINE. N. GARRISON. Novr. 4, 1783. No. 2. The Second proposition is to be understood in this manner. We require the Sum of £1200 to be paid us after the Experiment with One Chevaux De Frize is made & approved of. We will not charge ourselves with the whole operation then. The whole may afterwards be done with facility & CEconomy. Our Experiment it is expected will not cost more than 25 Guineas, and will be made in half a Day. DE BRUSSINE. N. GARRISON. Nov. 1783. * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIII., p. 745.
End of Section 52. Continue to next section or 
Section 53
Page 145
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 145 No. 3. By our first proposition we required the sum of £4000 payable as expressed in the same. By the second we required £1200 payable after the Experiment with One Chevaux de Frize was made and approved of according to which we are confident the whole Expence would not be abovo 3:2000. The difference between the first & 2nd proposal is considerable, for this reason. The first is in proportion to the Expence risque and Trouble, which would be considerable having all to purchase ourselves. By the 2d we have no Expence, risque, & but little Trouble as the Experiment would soon be made, and then continued as Council might direct which with a proper oeconomy, we are confident will not cost above £2000. Including the £1200 we required, For the above reasons we cannot deviate from the first proposals of £4000. But to satisfy Council of our confidence & Integrity, as we are convinced, That it is the only Infalible plan that can be adopted, & the least Expensive, We will engage to make the Experiment for 20 Guineas, and to conclude if Council think proper and give us in writing we will divulge our plan, If they disaprove it, it is void, If they approve it the Money shall nevertheless not be paid till after the Experiment is made and approved of. Andone of the 2 persons will agree to continue the operations till it is finished which the other cannot do so conveniently perhaps on account of his situation. DE BRUSSINE, N. GARRISON. The Honbl. the president & Council. Nov. 11th 1783. Gov. HARRISON, OF VIRGINTA, to PREs. DICKINSON.— Bound ARY, 1783. Virginia, Richmond, In Council, November 10th, 1783. Sir, I have not been able to answer your Excellency's favor enclosing the resolutions of your assembly respecting the boundary line be- tween the the two States, for want of the determination of the Com- missioners appointed on behalf of this State, who all live at a distance from me. I have at last obtained their promise to under- take the work, and to enter into a correspondence with your Com-
End of Section 53. Continue to next section or 
Section 54
Page 146
146 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. missioners, and with them to fix on the time and places of meeting. The gentlemen appointed are the Reverend Mr. James Madison, the Reverend Mr. Robert Andrews, the honourable John Page, and Mr. Thomas Lewis. Your excellency will please to notify their appointment to your Commissioners, and give them similar instruc- tions. I am, with sentiments of the most perfect respect and esteem, Sir, Your most obedient and most humble servant, BENJ. HARRISON. Directed, His Excellency, President Dickinson. (Copy.) PROCLAMATION OF Governor of CoNNECTICUT, 1783. By His Excellency Jonathan Trumbull, Esq., Govt and Com- mander in Chief in and over the State of Connecticut. Whereas, the Legislature of this State, by their Resolution passed at their sessions holden at New Haven, on the second Thursday of October last,” have declared that this State has the undoubted and exclusive Right of Jurisdiction & preemption to all the Lands West of the State of Pennsylvania & east of the River Mississipi, & ex- tending throughout from ye Latitude 41° to Latitude 42° 2 north, by virtue of the Charter granted by King Charles the 2" to the late Colony, now State of Connecticut, bearing date the 23" day of April, Anno Domini, 1662, which Claim and right they are deter- mined to assert & maintain. . . . I do therefore at the desire & Request of the sº Legislature, here- by publish, proclaim and make known, this their Resolution, asser- tion & declaration, to all people whomsoever it may concern—And I do also, by this my Proclamation, strictly forbid, all persons what- ever from entering upon, or settling within the Territories so claimed & asserted, without especial License & Authority therefor first obtain’d from the General Assembly of this State—as they would wish to avoid the pains, penalties & forfeitures to which they may in such Case expect to be exposed. Given under my hand and Seal, at Lebanon in the State of Con- necticut, this 15th day of Novº, A. D., 1783. (signed,) JON. TRUMBULL. * See page, 116. º §
End of Section 54. Continue to next section or 
Section 55
Page 147
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 147 Gov. Jon. TRUMBULL OF CONN. To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Lebanon, 15th November, 1783. Sir, The enclosed acts of the Legislature of this State, passed in their Sessions holden at New Haven in Octr last, which I have the Honor to transmit to your Excellency, will shew the disposition of this State towards their friends & Brethren who are scttled on the Territory of the Susquehanna, so long disputed between this State & that of Pennsylvania; whose sufferings & Condition under your State, since the Decree of the late Board of Commissioners, for determining the said disputed claim, appear, if truly represented to us, to be very singular & extraordinary, and have tended to excite the Commisseration of their friends, as well as to produce a deter- mination in the Legislature to give them all the aid & Support in their power. Mr. Sherman, who does me the favor of conveying this to your Excellency; and who is going on to Congress, with whom he is - instructed to give to these unhappy People, all the aid in his power, being fully posessed of the Subject, as well as of the views & Deter- minations of the General Assembly of this State respecting the same will, if you please, confer with you fully on the matter; and prevents the Trouble of a particular Detail from me. - I beg leave therefore, to refer your Excellency to Mr. Sherman for any further Information which you may be disposed to receive relative to this subject. With much Respect & Esteem I have the Honor to be Sir, Your Excellency's most obedient and humble servant, JONn TRUMBULL. Directed, His Excellency, Jno. Dickinson, Esqr. º SEC'Y ARMSTRONG. To MICHAEL HUFFNAGLE, 1783. P., Nov 15", 1783. Dr Sir, Your letter of the 16th Ult., has been received. The licentious disposition discovered in Manellan Township is not a little alarming; & in the Opinion of Council requires an early and vigorous correction.
End of Section 55. Continue to next section or 
Section 56
Page 148
148 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783 Upon the receipt of this, you will therefore assemble the Magis- tracy of that part of the County & with them, adopt the most effi- cient measures to investigate the business & enforce the laws. J. ARMSTRONG, jr. Secº. Directed, Mich" Huffnagle, Esq., Py, of Westmorland County. Gov. TRUMBULL To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. LeBanon, 15° Novº, 1783. Sir, I have the Honor to transmit to your Excellency several Acts and Resolutions of the General Assembly of this State together with my Proclamation in Consequence thereof, respecting their Claim to the Western Lands, comprized under the Charter of this State, granted by King Charles the second, as well those comprehended under the Susquehanna purchase as those still further West, as far as the River Missippipi. The Decision in the Case of the disputed Territory between this State and that of Pennsylvania, was not only very unexpected to the Legislature of this State, but from some Circumstances appears to them very singular indeed, and such as calls for their further prosecution, and in which they hope to produce such Documents, as shall obtain the further interposition of Congress. But singular and unexpected as the decision has been, the subsequent sufferings & Condition of the People who have been settled under the Claim & purchase of Connecticut, whose circumstances entitled them to the Commisiration & patronage, rather than the Rigor of the State of Pennsylvania, appears, if truly represented, to have been still more extraordinary, and have excited the Pity of their friends in this State, as well as the determination of the Legislature to afford them all the aid, support and protection in their Power. The Delegates from this State, who will attend in Congress this Winter, having been present in our General Assembly when the inclosed Resolu- tions were passed, and therefore fully possessed of the Subject; and as they are directed to agitate the Matter in Congress, it is un- necessary for me to enter into the detail; leaving the subject therefore to their management and submitting it to the wise & judicious determination of Congress. I have the Honor to be, &c., (Signed) JONn. TRUMBULL.
End of Section 56. Continue to next section or 
Section 57
Page 149
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 149 Resolution of CouncIL of CENSORs, 1783. In the Council of Censors, Nov. 21", 1783. Resolved, That the Supreme Executive Council be requested to furnish the Council of Censors with their Minutes since their Revolution. Extract from the Minutes. JOHN ROSE, Secy. RESOLUTION OF Assembly—PUBLIC REJOICINGS, 1783. State of Pensylvania, In General Assembly, Tuesday, December 2, 1783.−A. M. The report of the committee read November 29, relative to the preparations to be made for public demonstrations of joy; was read the second time, and adopted as follows, (viz.:) The committee appointed to confer with Council concerning the public demonstrations of joy, it may now be proper to authorize in this State upon the definitive treaty of peace between the United States and Great Britain, beg leave to report as the joint opinion of the board and your committee. That a triumphal Arch be erected at the upper end of High or Market street, between Sixth and Seventh streets, to be embellished with illuminated paintings and suitable inscriptions; and that some fire works be prepared for the occasion. - That such an exhibition in point of elegance as well as in regard to the convenience and safety of the spectators will prove most generally acceptable; it being intended there should be no other illuminations in the city That these preparations may be com- pleted in three or four weeks, and will require by the most exact computation they could at present make, at five or at most six hun- dred pounds. And therefore, Resolved, that a sum not exceeding six hundred pounds, be, and is hereby appropriated for the purpose of enabling the Supreme Ex- ecutive Council to make public demonstrations of joy upon the definitive treaty of peace between the United States and Great Britain. Extract from the Minutes. PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly. Directed, - For the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council. - 7*
Page 150
150 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. PETITION OF DANIEL DRAIs, 1783. To His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., President, and the ºntº, the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Penn- sylvº. The Memorial of Daniel Drais, of the City of Philadelphia. Humbly sheweth, That your memorialist in the year 1780, was appointed Collector of the Taxes in Mulberry & Upper Delaware Wards—That among others in his Duplicate there was the Estates of Abraham Carlisle & John Parrock, Confiscated, the Assessments on which, no one would pay to your Memorialist, and as he was obliged to account for and pay the Amount to the Wardens, he thinks it hard that he should be out of his Money because the Estates are Confiscated And humbly Prayeth to grant an Order that he may receive his Money so assessed on s' Estates. . . And as in duty, &c., DANIEL DRAIS.* Philad., Oct. 9th, 1783. Indorsed, 1783, December 9th, Memorial Daniel Drais, Referred to the Comp", who is requested to report. J. ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sr. It has been customary for the agents of forfeited Estates to pay the taxes accrueing thereupon where they have not contracted with that the persons who have leased the Estates of them should pay the . in addition to the Rent. The Agent could give Information erein. Dec. 10th, 1783. - J. N. PRES. DICKINSON TO GEN. WASHINGTON.—CongrATULA- ToRy, 1783. Si In Council, December 9th, 1783. Ir, Your Return in Safety and Health to this City, from which you first set out commissioned to defend the Liberties of your Country, and after so successful a performance of that High Trust, affords us the most sincere Joy. We heartily congratulate you on the late honorable Peace, by which the Freedom, Sovereignty, & Independence of the United States are fully acknowledged, their Territorial Rights sustained, & the Calamities of War terminated. When we contemplate your Conduct in every period of the event- ful Contest, and the various proofs you have exhibited of your Love for your Fellow Citizens, our Minds are filled with sentiments, which, we are convinced you would rather deserve, than have expressed—if they could be expressed. - * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIII., p. 704.
Page 151
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 151 They are Sentiments, sir, representing you in such a Light to us, that, ardently wishing you every Happiness of this Life, we feel ourselves equally moved by Duty & Affection to beseech the Best and Greatest of Beings in his good time to bestow upon you all the Felicities of that to come. When I thus communicate the sense of Council, I rejoice in the opportunity of testifying with how perfect an Esteem I am, Sir, your Excellency's most obedient servant, JOHN DICKINSON*. Directed, His Excellency, General Washington. GENERAL WASHINGTON'S REPLY TO CouncIL, 1783. To His Excellency, the President, and the Honorable the Su- preme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pensilvania. Gentlemen, - I am duly affected by the welcome reception I have met with on my return to this City, and accept with unusual pleasure your oblig- ing congratulation. But I feel myself particularly indebted to you, Gentlemen, for that delicate sensibility, which hath spared my feelings, and by suppressing your sentiments of my conduct, placed it in but too fair a point of light. It is from a heart overflowing with gratitude for your past assist- ance and present politeness, that I reciprocate all your benevolent wishes. While my farewell blessing thus attends you, permit me to give this last public testimony of the great respect and esteem with which I have the honor to be, Gentlemen, your most obedient humble servant, Go WASHINGTON. Philadelphia, 10th Decº, 1783. PREs. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1783. In Council, December 16, 1783. Gentlemen, Tho' his Excellency General Washington proposes in a short time to retire, yet his illustrious actions & Wirtues render his Character, so splendid and venerable that it is highly probable, the admiration * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 765.
Page 152
152 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. & Esteem of the world may make his Life in a very considerable De- gree public, as numbers will be desirous of seeing the great & good Man who has so eminently contributed to the Happiness of a Nation. His very services to his Country may therefore subject him to im- proper Expences, unless he permits her Gratitude to interpose. We are perfectly acquainted with the Disinterestedness & Gene- rosity of his soul. He thinks himself amply rewarded for all his Labors & Cares by the Love and prosperity of his Fellow Citizens; it is true, no Rewards they can bestow can be equal to his merits. But they ought not to suffer those Merits to be burthensome to Him. We are convinced, the People of Pennsylvania would regret such a consequence. - We are aware of the Delicacy with which this subject must be treated; But relying upon the Good sense of Congress, We wish it may engage their early attention. We also earnestly desire that Congress may as soon as possible deliberate on the Measures to be adopted for remedying the Mischiefs that may arise from the late British Commercial arrangements. Another Point of vast Importance, we are anxious to have speedily & finally concluded: and that is the Cession of the Western Lands & the Disposition of them for the Common Benefit of the United States. We apprehend very unhappy Effects from any Delay attending the adjustment of that Business. It is the peculiar Interest of this State to have all the Steps taken as soon as possible for the proposed Treaty with the Indians. On these Heads, & on every other, of which it may be for the Benefit of this Commonwealth to be advised, we should be glad to receive regular & full Intelligence. I am with great Esteem, Gentlemen, your most obedient servt. JOHN DICKINSON.” Directed, The Honorable The Delegates of Pennsylvania in Congress. Joseph WILSON TO Council,—Jos. DoANE, 1783. Frederick, County, Maryland. 15th December, 1783. Gentlemen, Please to pay John Kleinhoff the Ballance of the Certificate for taking Joseph Doane if so much money has come into the Treasury if so much is not come in please to deliver the Certificate to him first deducting the One Hundred pounds I have received of it. The * See answer on page 155.
Page 153
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 153 Certificate I left in the Hands of the Hon. Vice president untill Joseph Doane should be brought to Philadelphia. am Gentlemen your Honble. Servt. JOSEPH WILSON. Directed, To the Honble. the Supreme Executive Council of the State of pennsylvania. . I hereby Certify that I am well acquainted with Mr. John Kline- hoof and Believe that he is Properly authorized to Receive the money for Joseph Wilson and I will be security for the same. Philad. 7th January 1784. - - JAMES BARR. I hereby Certify.that I am well acquainted with Mr. John Kleni- hof and beleieve he is properly authorized to Receive the Money for Joseph Wilson as Mentioned in this order, and will be security for the same. Janr. 7th, 1783. R. McALESTER. Resolution of CouncIL of CENSORs, 1783. In the Council of Censors, Decr. 18th 1783. Resolved, That in order to defray the Contingent Expences of Council, the President request the honorable the Supreme Executive Council, to draw an order on the Treasurer for the sum of One Hundred Pounds, in favor of the Secretary of this Council, he to be accountable. Extract from the minutes, JOHN ROSE, Asst. Secry. ! FRED. A. MUHLENBERG To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Si Council Chamber, Dec. 18th, 1783. 1r, Pursuant to the inclosed Resolution I am to request your Excel- lency & the supreme executive Council to draw an Order on the Treasurer, for the sum of £100, in favor of the Secretary of this Council. r I have the Honour to be, Sir, your Excellency's most obedient & very humble Servt., FRED'K A. MUHLENBERG. Directed, His Excellency, the Presid', -
Page 154
154 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. CouncIL TO AGENTs of CoNFISCATED ESTATEs, 1783. Secretary's Office, Philadelphia, December 21st, 1783. Gentlemen, I have the directions of Council to communicate the following order, Wiz: that the different Agents of confiscated property be called upon to make an immediate & correct report of all the estates confiscated in their respective Counties:—specifying such as have been sold & the other proceedings which have been taken upon them. I am Gentlemen, with much Respect, your obed. servº, JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Secy. * PREs. DICKINson To DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1783. Gentlemen, As the Peace Establishment will probably be very small, we should be glad, that Measures might speedily be adopted for having Care taken of the artillery, arms, & ammunition belonging to the United States. It appears to us, that no better mode can be devised, than to have them divided in just proportions among the several States. If that shall be the Determination of Congress, we doubt not, but you will require an account of those articles that have been deposited in any particular States. General Washington in his Circular Letter, recommended, that the same arms should be established throughout the States. We should be glad, if Congress would be pleased to take that Point into Consideration. These subjects seem to be enforced by the first Circumstances we have mentioned. - We wish soon to receive authentic Intelligence of the Definitive Treaty, and of the Ratification when made. I am with great Esteem Gentlemen, your most obedt. h’ble serv't, JOHN DICKINSON. Philadelphia, December 29th, 1783. Directed, The Honorable, The Delegates of Pennsylvania.
End of Section 57. Continue to next section or 
Section 58
Page 155
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 155 DELEGATES IN CONGRESS To CouncIL, 1783. Gentlemen, We have the Honor to acknowledge the Receipt of your instruc- tions dated the 16th” December, 1783, to which we shall pay par- ticular attention. The first part of the instructions which relates to his Excellenty General Washington, “whose illustrious actions and Virtues render his Character so splendid & venerable” will engage our earliest notice; but we wish to know whether it is the Desire of Your Excellency and the Honorable Council, that the Delegates of Pennsylvania should propose in Congress, that an allowance be made to The General, & what that allowance should be. Whether the Grant of a Sum of Money as a compensation for the great per- sonal Sacrifices he has made to the Public or whether an annual sum to indemnify him for Expences which may arise in future from the particular Situation he must be in. Whatever your Excellency & Honors may direct on this Head shall be most punctually com- plied with. Congress consisting of only Seven States, cannot take up at this time any of the important Subjects which are contained in your Instructions; so soon as Nine States appear, we will press for the Discussion of them, and give you every matérial information relat- ing to them. The inclosed paper, No. 1, is a transcript of the Journal of Con- gress, commencing the 13th, and ending the 27th of December. No. 2, is a copy of a Report from the Superintendant of Finance, on an Extract from the Votes of the Assembly of Pennsylvania relative to the mode fixed by the House for the settlement of Public Accounts. The Report is in the Hands of a Committee. No. 3, is a copy of an act passed in the last session of the Assem- bly of Maryland in Consequence of the Restrictions lately impose on the American Commerce by Great Britain. Virginia has passe an Act similar to the Maryland Act. - Congress have received many Letters from. their Ministers in Europe, but as they consist principally of steps taken by our Minis- ters in their Negociations for Peace, & of conversations of a secret Nature, which they have had with the Ministers of some European Courts, we are not at Liberty to copy them for your Inspection. We do not recollect anything of Importance before Congress at this time except what we have inclosed. Colonel Franks has been employed by us to copy the papers sent herewith, if we are to per- sue the plan of sending to you Copies of all papers which we may believe necessary for your inspection, we shall be obliged to engage * See page 151,
End of Section 58. Continue to next section or 
Section 59
Page 156
156 PENNSYLVANA ARCHIVES 1783. him or some other person to do that Business. But as we have no Authority to promise an allowance for this service, we request Your Excellency and Honors to give us an Instruction on this Subject. We are with the highest Respect, & Esteem, Your Excellency's & Councils Obedient humble Servts., THOMAS MIFFLIN, EDW. HAND, CAD. MORRIS. Annapolis, 30 December, 1783. DELEGATES IN CONGRESS To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Annapolis, 30 December, 1783. Sir, A Question of great Importance has been debated in Congress; and will probably be renewd in a Day or two. It is Whether Seven States in Congress assembled are competent to a Ratification of the Definitive Treaty. On this Point we request a positive Instruction from Council. It may be proper to inform your Excellency that the Gentlemen who made & seconded the motion for a Ratification by Seven States, alleged “That Congress consisting of Nine States, viz.: Massa- “chusets, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, “Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia & Nº Carolina, did on the 29th “of October last, at Princeton authorise and instruct their Minis- “ters at Paris, to make the Preliminary Articles a Definitive Treaty “of Peace. That Nine States having declared what Articles should “constitute the Definitive Treaty; and the Treaty being framed ac- “cording to their Declaration & Instructions, It may now be rati- “fied by Seven States. That there is no Probability that Nine “States will assemble in time to ratify. That admitting the Ques- “tion to be doubtful it would be the Excess of bad policy to risque “a Renewal of the War, by delaying the Ratification of it. That “the last article of the Treaty declares it shall be ratified and ex- “changed in Six Months, or sooner if possible. That only sixty “Days now remain for the Ratification & Exchange; which last “must be made in Paris or London. These are the principal Arguments, which have been advanced by the Gentlemen who press for an immediate Ratification. We need not inform your Excellency how necessary the Instruc- tions of Councils on this Question are to us. We shall endeavour
Page 157
PENN SYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 157 to delay the Determination of Congress untill we receive an answer to this Letter & are with the highest Respect. Your Excellency & Councils most obedient h” Servants, THOMAS MIFFLIN, CAD. MORRIS, EDW. HAND. The States at present represented in Congress are Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia & No. Carolina. Mr. Foster of Newhampshire, & Mr. Reed of South Carolina. Directed, His Excell’y, John Dickinson, Esqr., Philadelphia. ... [This and the following papers having been discovered since the preceding were published, and belonging to the Revolutionary period, it is deemed best to introduce them here before entering upon those for 1784.] CouncIL TO Joseph REED, 1777. Si Philad. 23d July, 1777.f 1T, I had the honour of your Letter of the 23rd of June, last from Burlington. This I communicated to the President & Council without delay. They have been for two weeks past in expectation of receiving your determination concerning the office of Chief Justice, to which they had appointed you; and being at length become anxious for it they order me to remind you on the subject. It appears extraordinary to the Council, that the Speaker of Assembly & Gentlemen of distinction should intimate to you, that delay in your answer would be acceptable. When the House was last sitting, and especially about the time of recess, many of the members at different times pressed the propriety & need of .# the Supreme Bench of Judicature, upon the members of Counci seperately. They spoke in the name of their Constituents. The Council feel the want of it weekly. Criminals confined for Capital Charges press for Trial or bailment, in many of the Counties, the inferiour Courts of Common pleas cannot well proceed without the upper Court, with weh. they are systematically connected ; nor can the benefit of habeas Corpus be properly enjoyed. Besides the damage done to the administration by the present decripid condition of the body politic is extensive & mischievous. The wishes of good + Mr. Reed attended in Council on the same day and declined the office giving his reasons in writing, See Col. Rec, Vol. XI., p. 249, and Archives Vol. W. p. 379.
End of Section 59. Continue to next section or 
Section 60
Page 158
I58 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. Citizens therefore, the public utility, the ardent desire of Council to gratify the one & promote the other, join in asking your acceptance of the important office to which you are called, without delay. I am Sir, your most obedient, and very humble Servt. REMONSTRANCE OF ISRAEL PEMBERTON, &c., 1777. To the President & Council of Pensilvania. The Remonstrance of Israel Pemberton John Hunt and Samuel Pleasants. Sheweth, That Lewis Nicola is about to deprive us of our Liberty by an order from you, of which the following is a Copy viz. “In Council Sepr. 3, 1777.” “Ordered, That Colonel Nicola, Town major, do take a proper “guard & sieze Israel Pemberton, John Hunt & Samuel Pleasants & “Conduct them to the Freemason's Lodge & there confine them “under proper guard 'till farther orders.” “Extracts from the minutes. T. MATLACK, Secy.” That We are advised & from our own knowledge of our Rights & Privileges are assured that your issuing that order is arbitrary, un- just, & illegal & we therefore believe it is our duty in clear and express terms to remonstrate against it. The order appears to be arbitrary, as you have assum'd an authority not grounded in Law or Reason to deprive us, who are peacable men & have never bore arms, of our Liberty by a military force, when you might have directed a Legal Course of Proceeding; un- just as we have not attempted nor are charged with any act inconsis- tent with the Character we have steadily maintained of good Citizens sollicitous to promote the real interest & welfare of our Country & that it is illegal is evident from the perusal & Consideration of the Constitution of the Governmeut from which you derive all your authority & Power. * We therefore claim our undoubted rights as Freemen having a just sense of the inestimable value of Religious & Civil Liberty to be heard before we are confined in the manner directed by the said order & we have the more urgent reason for insisting on this our Right as several of our Fellow Citizens have been some Days & now are confined by your order & no opportunity is given them to be heard & we are informed that it is your purpose to send them & us to a distant part of the Country, even beyond the limits of the
Page 159
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 159 Jurisdiction you claim & where the recourse we are justly & legally entitled to, of being heard & of clearing ourselves from any Charge or suspicion you may entertain respecting us will be impracticable. We fervently desire you may be so wise as to attend to the Dic- tate of Truth & Justice in your own minds & observe the precept of our Lord Jesus Christ whom you profess to believe in “all things “whatsoever ye would that men should do to you Do ye even so to “ them Mattw. 7: 12,” & then we have no doubt you will Comply with this just Claim we make, which will be duly acknowledged by your Real Friends & well wishers, ISR. PEMBERTON, JOHN HUNT, SAM. PLEASANTS.* Philada. 49mo 1777. - GEN. JAMES POTTER TO PREs. REED, 1779. Penns Valley, May 3d, 1779.f Dear Sir, I have Just Received your Kind favour of the fourteenth of April you recommend the posting of Troops at Muncey—there has allway been a number of Hartleys Regt. posted at Muncey since they came to this Country that pleace, Jenkinses, Wioming, and Sun- bury are the posts they have occupeyed. I would be fond to carrey on a Corrispondance with Genl. Hand but it will be attended with Dificqualty. I am much obledged to your for you good services and harty enclination you express too serve us on the frunteers and for your care in sending me the papers. You are pleased to inform me of your Endeavours to get the Militia in good order. I am sorry my situation is such that I can be of little use to my Country at present being almost separated from the Rest of the World, it is a pity the endulgance shone too the Torreys has not had a better effect on them, but endulgence is frequently abused Except where there is some Generosety or Sperrit and that we must not look for in # Torrey as the Revarse of that was the very cause of there being OrreWS. 5. County has been severly scurged these days past by the Indians, by the best accounts I can receive we have had killed and taken Prisnors about forty persons, the perticqullers I expect you will Receve before this comes to hand, the Militia of Col. Buchan- aus Battalion of Cumberland County were ordered to march to fort Roberdeau they Refused to march aledging it was unreasonable to order them out and to have no guards on there own frunteers, but at the same time Declared there willingness to guard the frunteers oposite to themselves, on my confering with Col. Stewart, one of the * See Col. Rec., Wol. XI., p. 290. # See Vol. VII., p. 805.
Page 160
160 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. of the company to this Valley and the other half to standing stone Walley in Bedford County, those that were for this pleace came hear on the twenty-ninth of April, and the day before Col. Hunter sent to this Valley one officer and fifteen men, of those that were raised in the County by supperscriptions, and yesterday unexpected came Captn. Cerbey with his Troop of Light Hors that was ordered by the Board of war in Feby, last to this pleace. Col. Hartly for what Reason I know not, got the Board to Countermand there Orders, on Capt." Cerbeys arivel hear, I sent the Cumberland militia to Standing Stone Valley in Bedford County, thus we Got supplied with men after I had the pleasure of keeping Garrison with my family alone for six weeks in one of the frunteer Garrisons of the County, and not a man stationed on any part of the frunteers of the two Countys from Muncey westward, untill the twenty-eight of April. I must confess I think the Militia of Col. Buchanan's Batt. was not to Bleame for Refusing to march too fort Roberdeau when there was no Guards on their own frunteers but a few Inhabitance shut up in forts, and every day lickley to evequate them, and altho' I have always been for Obedience to Orders, the Lieutenant's Orders to that Companey Considring there sircumstances were too Hard to be compleyed with. Our people on the frunteers of this County showes a mutch Better spirrit and makes a better stand than I expected. I trust in God, through his Blessing, the ensuing Campain will grant Relefe. I am, dr. sir, with the most sincer Regard and Esteem, - Your most obediant Humble servant, JAS. POTTER. Directed, On public service. To His Excellency Joseph Reed, President of the State of Penn- sylvania, In Philadelphia. *- CoL. BRODHEAD TO PREs. REED, 1779. Pittburgh, May 22", 1779.” Dear Sir, The Enemy has done little or no Damage for upwards of a fort- night past, except taking two lads prisoners in Salt lick Valley. My son has frequently wrote me that you assured him he was to retain his rank in the army, which was my wish; but having wrote his Excellency to permit him to visit me; I received the following answer. It has been the misfortune of many Officers in captivity to have been overlooked by their States, who had the power of all Regimental appointments, which seem to have been the case with Mr. Brodhead. Had he been appointed in the line after so long * See Vol. VII. I age 484.
Page 161
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 161 sub-lieutenants of that County, he allowed them to march one-half an absence from you, I should not have refused him the oppor- tunity of paying you a visit; but as he has not, there cannot be a possibility of objection on my part. I freely confess that I have not met any thing of late, that has so much hurt my feelings, as the neglect shown to the brave officers, who, by the want of Judgment in some, unfortunately fell in to the hands of the Enemy. And I wish the president may not be injurious to the Service. Had any improper Conduct on their part been manifested, it would have justified a coolness, but I trust that was not the case, and have always understood that the number of the Enemy, was so much superior to theirs, that it would have been imprudent to have contended longer than they did. Give me leave to thank you in the name of my Reg', for the ample supplies, which, I am informed are on the road, for the officers & Men. Inclosed are Copies of a Letter received from Major Vernon, & two Speeches from the Indians. I believe the Western Indians, except the Shawnese, are quiet, & that we shall soon give a good account of the Northerns. The scarcity of provisions at Fort Lawrens was owing to repeated false returns of the asssist Commy. there; but I hope a small supply which I had sent them by a new route, will reach that post before it is quite evacuated. When I shall receive more salt provisions to subsist the Garrisons at the different advanced posts, I know not, but every step has been taken to procure it, that appeared promising. With the most sincere regard & Esteem, I have the Honor to be, your Excellencies most Obedt Servt. DANIEL BRODHEAD, Col" commandg., West Departm'. Directed, His Excellency, Governor Read. DEPOSITION OF JAMES OELLERS.–BRIG ACTIVE, 1780. James Oellers of full age, being duly sworn, deposeth & saith that Capt. Jacquellen de Ray, late Captain of the Brig Active, came to this Port, & applied to this Depon', as his Factor, that having consulted this Deponent about his outward Cargo, it was concluded to export Flour if they could do it. That the Captain applied to the Minister of France, who recommended him to Mr. Holker; that he applied to Mr. Holker for a Freight, who excused
Page 162
162 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. himself as not having Money to purchase Flour; that the sº Captain soon after observing a Schooner loading Flour under Mr. Holker's direction, thought it hard that he could not have a like Prilidge; he then applied again, offering Mr. Holker to purchase Flour with his own Money if he would assist him to export it, which Mr. Holker agreed to, provided his Agent should do the Business, & the Captain to allow him 5 tº cº on the Cargo of flour; that the Flour was to be offered to the Agent of the French Marine in the West Indies at the Market Price, but if he did not want it, then to be sold for the Benefit of the Owner, Mr. De Rey; that this Deponent was informed by Mons' Florentin, Captain of the Polacca, . he had been adopted to submit to the like Term on a Cargo of lour. And further Deponent saith not, &c. JAMES OELLERS.* Sworn before me this 13 day of Nov. 1780. - PLUNKET FLEESON. CHAs. W. PEALE, &c., To PRESIDENT OF CouncIL, 1779. His Excellency, the President of the State. May it please your Excellency, We have the honor to wait upon you in behalf of a number of citizens, with our request, that your excellency, with the honorable the council of the state, will favor with your presence on Monday the fifth of July, the delivering an eulogium in honor of the brave men who have fallen in the contest; as also that you will invite, if it shall seem proper to you, his excellency the Minister of France, and Don Juan de Merailles, a Spanish gentleman a resident in this state. If it may be agreeable to your Excellency and the council, a band of military instruments of music shall wait upon your excellency the council, and congress if they shall attend, from the state house, and it is submitted to your excellency, whether a company of the Militia under arms, may not be admitted to accompany the band. We have the honor to be, in behalf of a number of citizens, your excellency's most devoted and very humble servants, CHARLES WILSON PEALE, FRANCIS BAILEY, EDWARD POLE. July 1, 1779. Indorsed, 1779, recº July 2", From Charles Wilson Peale, Francis Bailey &#Edward Pole. An invitation to the President & Council to attend at the German Church to hear an eulogium, to be d" by Mr. Breckenridge.t * See Wol. IX., p. 10, 33, 180. # The Eulogium was afterwards printed.
Page 163
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 168 CHARLEs W. PEALE TO PREs. REED, 1780. June 12th, 1780. Sir, º Ever fond of perpetuating the Remembrance of the Worthies of my time, as I conceive it will be a means of exciting an Emulation in our Posterity to deserve the like attention, and mankind will receive an advantage thereby; the Likeness being added to the Historic page, giving it more force and the Reader more pleasure; with this View I wish to transmit to after ages the likeness of our late Worthy President, The Honble Thomas Wharton Esq.; and for that purpose would beg your Excellency and the Honble the Executive Council to give the portrait of that good man, which I herewith send, a place in the Counsel Chamber. And you will oblige your most Obedient Servant, CHARLES WILSON PEALE:f Directed,—His Excellency, Joseph Reed, Esq., President of the State of Pennsylvania. INSTRUCTIONS To REv. JAMES FINLEY, 1783, The General Assembly of this State by their Resolution of the 19th of last November empowered Council to select & appoint one or two proper persons to travel through & reside some time in the Counties of Westmoreland & Washington in order by necessary In- formation to bring over our deluded fellow Citizens to a proper sense of their Duty & resolved to defray the necessary Expences. The resolution relates to the unjust & dangerous Designs of some persons in the Counties to separate from & erect a new and Independant State within the Charter Boundaries of this Commonwealth. We taking this Business into our most seriousConsideration unani- mously agreed to appoint you to fulfill the Intentions of the Legis- lature, and are happy to find that you consent to accept the impor- tant Employment. We apprehend it to be their sense, that you should not on this occasion appear with any public Character; and we doubt not but your Prudence will suggest to you the Reasons, upon which such a Caution is founded. We place great Reliance in your wisdom & Integrity but judge it may be expedient especially as we understand it is desired by you, to express such sentiments as occur to us upon as the subject. The act of Assembly, the Bill published for Consideration & our proclamation containing the late decree in our favor, all of them here. with delivered, may be used, without exciting any notion that you are employed by the state. In like manner may be urged the final acceptance of the Decree by Congress without the least Exception the # See Vol. VIII, p. 319. Where is this portrait? It is not to be found at present. -
Page 164
164 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. submission of the Inhabitants settled under the Connecticut Claim & the acknowledgement of our Right by the State of Virginia. From these Facts & from the undisputed Judgement of the United States the Right of Pennsylvania to all the Lands within her Charter Boundaries, & her Jurisdiction over them may & earnestly be insisted on as universally confest. From hence arises a strong argument against the Injustice and Wickedness of an attempt to dismember a State by Faction, Sedition or violence, an offence of a deep Dye, & highly displeasing not only to all good men, but unquestionably so in the sight of our righteous Creator. The Contempt with which their late application to Con- gress has been treated by that Honorable Body, is a strong Evidence how wild & iniquitous such a project appears to be. This offence is rendered the more heinous when it is remembered with what Carefulness & at what a great Expence Pennsylvania hath attended to the protection & Comfort of our Fellow Citizens on the Western frontier, so that she now labours under a heavy Debt incurred for their Defence, as also for freeing them from the Burthen of proprietary Demands. The People to be thus addressed must be- conscious how slight their Contributions have ever been to the pub- lic expenditures. There is no Reason to doubt but that this brotherly affection & kindness on our part will be continued & encreased ; and measures be devised for conveying to them all the Blessings of a regular Civil government, in the manner easiest & cheapest that can be possible for them. The usual Business of each County can be transacted within itself, without inconvenience and the Trial of Causes in the Supreme Court, a Resort so very useful, can be had without great trouble or Expence, by the Circuit of the Judges. Attendance of members in assembly is defrayed by the state. The Benefits that must be derived to all the Citizens of Pennsyl- vania by her continuing to hold her just Charter extent, & by thus rendering her as respectable and powerful as can be, are many & very valuable, on the other Hand, the Dangers & mischiefs that must result from contracting her Bounds, & lessening her Respecta- bility & Power, are vastly alarming. This observation will receive the more force, by reflecting, that we shall be neighbours to States of prodigious Extent and Influence. Attempts of this last kind must be foolish & criminal in Extreme; & never can succeed, unless the innocent & unwary suffer themselves to be cheated & imposed upon by a few bold, ambitious, artful, selfish, & wicked men. Such men . there are in all societies, & their constant method of proceeding is to cover over Designs calculated to promote their own Interest by flimzy Pretences of public good. Such men who want to make op- portunities for promoting themselves to Posts of Honor & profit, must be watched & guarded against by their honest Fellow Citizens. Such men by talking about a new State mean new Offices to acquire Power and Wealth for themselves. These Men are so lost to all
End of Section 60. Continue to next section or 
Section 61
Page 165
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 165 *- sense of shame & so void of every Principle of Justice, that they aim to distinguish the western frontiers of Pennsylvania by an in- famy of Conduct, of which the world has not yet afforded an in- stance. When Parts of an Empire or State have separated from the rest, it has allways been on account of some intolerable Tyrany practised against them. But the Inhabitants of our Western Fron- tiers have been so far from feeling such Tyranny, that they have constantly been cherished & protected with parental tenderness by the state. The most ingenious Innovators in that Country cannot mention a single Grievance caused by the State, If any Incon- venience arises from their settleing on the Frontiers at a Distance from the other settlements, it was their own voluntary act—done under public authority—the Consent & protection of which public authority was an obligation upon them ; and every such Inconve- nience admits of a proper Remedy of which some Hint has already been given. If arguments of this sort are not duly regarded, it may be added with the utmost Calmness and Firmness, that Pennsylvania knows her Rights, the world acknowledges them, and she is resolved at every Hazard to maintain them. In the Course of the Measures she is pursuing a number of brave men whose Courage & Wirtue have been proved in their Countrys Cause, will become interested in the Lands which are designed for part of the new State, who will not suffer their dearly earned property to be torn from them by chimerical Pretenders to Patriotism. I am Sir, with great Esteem and Regard, Your obedient humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON.” Feby. 6, 1783. Directed, To the Rev. Mr. Finley of Chester County his instructions. INSTRUCTIONs To CAPT. SHRAWDER, 1783. Feb. 28, 1783. Gentlemen, As the Continental Troops have lately been withdrawn from Wioming, it is by the General Assembly thought necessary for the protection of the settlement against the Savages, to replace the Guard immediately with the two Companies of Rangers commanded by you. 93. will therefore each of you directly march with your respec- tive Companies to that Post & take every proper Measure for main- taining the Post there, and for protecting the settlements. We have wrote to John Weitzel, Esquire, directing him to deliver the pro- visions contracted for, at Wioming, instead of delivering them at Fort Rice or at Captain Grays in Buffaloe Walley as was at first * See page 40. Vol. X.—8
Page 166
166 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. intended. We would have you to give such assistance to Mr. Wietzel as may render this alteration agreeable to him. As we con- fide very much in your Prudence, we trust that your Conduct will enforce our wishes on a Point of great importance. It is our earnest Desire, that the Inhabitants settled at or near Wioming, should be in all Respects treated with kindness. This we know to be the Desire, also of the Legislature, it being the unanimous sense of both Branches, of the government, that all Differences should be equitably & finally adjusted. We therefore expect that you will separately and together employ your best Exertions to prevent any injury being done to the Inhabi- tants before mentioned, & even any Quarrels being entered into with them by the officers or soldiers under your Command; and that you may convince them by your Care & attention to them, that they are regarded as Fellow-Citizens, whose Welfare & Happiness you sincerely and affectionately desire to promote. I am, &c. Indorsed, 1783, Febº 28th. Message from Council to Gen.' Assembly respecting the running the line between this State and Virginia.” And Instructions to Captains Robeson and Shrawder to proceed to Wyoming with their Companies of Rangers. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1783. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Friday March 21, 1783–A. M. The committee appointed February 17, on the letter from his Excellency the President of this State, made report, which was read, and on motion and by special order the same was read the second time: whereupon Resolved, That the President of the Supreme Executive Council be authorised to draw on the Treasurer of the State for the sum of Two hundred pounds to be applied towards the payment of the necessary repairs made and to be made to the government mansion house. Extract from the minutes. PETER Z. LLOYD. Clerk of the General Assembly. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 519, 522. .
End of Section 61. Continue to next section or 
Section 62
Page 167
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 167 WM. PARKER To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Washington County, April 5th, 1783. Sir, The expectation of Peace gave the Inhabitants of the Western Frontiers hopes of being eased of the calamities of war, at least for some time; but it is our great mortification the savages have began anew their depredations. They took one Mrs. Walker Prisoner on the 27th ult, on Buffalo Creek, but she happily made her escape. This woman says that two parties of Indians are gone against the Inhabitants. Two days after there were two men taken prisoners at Weeling—the day following, a man was wounded on Short Creek. The 1st of April they took the Wison Boice and Family consisting of eight persons, and a Man was killed the day following, near Washington County, Court house. Same time two Indian Rafts were seen on the Ohio, between Weeling and Grave Creek. In short the Inhabitants are in the utmost consternation especially on the Frontiers, and unless timely relieved, their case must be truly deplorable. The Commandant of Fort Pitt, (Col. Bayard,) has generously supplied us with amunition, and is ready to give every assistance in his power. We are with the great respect Sir, your most obed hum” Servants, WM. PARKER, JAMES ALLISON. Sub. L. W. C. DoRSEY PENTECOST To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Washington County, May 4th, 1783. Sir, I have no doubt but that General Irwine has informed Your Excellency and Council of the Early inrodes of the Savages this Spring, and with what uncommon Inhumanity they marked their horrid murders, as also the great success they met with owing to the unexpectedness of the stroke. I think in one week they killed and captured seventeen persons, two of which (vizt., a Woman and a Boy) have since made their Escape. The people ware so intirely easy under the Expectation of a General Peace that those Butchers of mankind met with no kind of Obstruction in their progress, for it is said, and I believe with truth, that they continued about the frontiers of this County for several days without a single scout persuing them.
Page 168
168 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. However they have at Length left the Country of their own accord, and I have the Pleasure of Informing your Excellency that I have not heard of any disturbance from them for several weeks past. I am inclined to think that those who were amongst us was a hunt- ing party that had been out all winter, and knew nothing of the Late publick Transactions, or else they are an ungovernable Ban- dity who came out to rob & plunder, and intend to remove out of our way, for it's Certain the different Tribes doth not Intend to Prosecute the War, or the stroke would have been more general. How true my conjectures are, and how they may Correspond with the sentiments of those who Pretend to understand more about Indian Politicks I wont pretend to say. I hear that Last Thursday a party of upwards of sixty men went from Wheeling to take possession and form a settlement on the Indian side of Ohio, at the mouth of the Muskingom, I believe the report is a fact. I Expected to see your Excellency some Time in June, but the Indian rupture this Spring has heretofore Prevented me from doing a Job of surveying which I came home to attend. I have two Surveyors now out, and, if they met with no accident, will return in about Six or Eight Weeks. Soon after that happens I shall set out for Philadelphia. - I will thank your Excellency for the news, and to offer my respects to the Gentlemen of your Honrable Board, and permit me to assure your Excellency that I am with sincere Esteem Your Excellency's most Obd’t Humb. Servt., DORSEY PENTECOST. P. S. This will be handed your Excelly by the Rev. John McMillin, a Gentleman that doth honor to his profession, and who called on me on his way down. I prevailed on him to wait until I hurried up this scrawl, being the first opportunity I have had since my return home. D. P. Directed, ta His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., Philadelphia. Hon'd by the Revd. Jno. McMillin. - Thomas SMITH TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1783. Philada, May 24th, 1783. Sir By an act of the Legislature of Pennsylvania, passed the 21st of March last, entitled “An act for providing the Quota of federal supplies for the year 1783, & for the relief of the Citizens of this State who have become Creditors of the United States of America
Page 169
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 169 by Loans of Money or other Modes of furnishing public supplies.” Provision is made for issueing certain Notes which are to be put into my hands for the purpose of paying one year's Interest on cer- tain Loan Office & other Certificates therein described, under certain limitations & restrictions, of which your Excellency & the Council are constituted the Judges. The public Creditors are anxious to avail themselves of the relief intended by this Law, & I would gladly discharge my duty in administering it in such manner as will give as little trouble to your Excellency & the Council as the nature and circumstances of the business will admit. In order to which I beg leave to solicit your instructions on some points on which the determination of your Excellency & the Council seem to be requisite; & by which instructions I may be enabled to avoid giving you the Trouble of frequent references of particular Cases. The act directs that one year's Interest shall be paid on “all such Certificates of money loaned to the United States or other Certificates of Debts due from the United States liquidated, ascer- tained & Certified accordpng to the directions of the United States in Congress assembled,” other than for pay of Officers, &C", with a proviso, among other things, that such Certificates were originally Issued “in the name & for the use of any Person or Persons who at the time of such issuing who or were, or since have been a Citizen or Citizens of this State, & actually resident within the same,” & if any difficulty shall arise respecting the right of the Claimant to the benefit of this act, it shall be incumbent on him to produce the proof necessary to establish it; & if such proof be not sufficient to satisfy , the Loan Officer, the same shall be referred to the President & Council whose determination & order thereon shall be conclusive. On this Clause of the Act it seems to be requisite that general rules should be established & made known that the applicants may come properly prepared in the first instance to support their just claims, & avoid the trouble, disappointment, & Wexation which would pro- bably happen in numerous instances for want of such information. 1st. As to the Certificates other than the Loan Office Certificates, what marks of authenticity they should bear, by whom they should be signed, & in what manner attested, to intitle the bearer to receive the In". 2dly. Supposing this description ascertained, so as to put these Certificates on a footing with Loan Office Certificates, then, as to both, what proof will be necessary, & in what mode must it be ascertained that they originally were issued to such persons, & in such manner as the Act requires to intitle them to draw Interest. By a resolution of Congress of the 10th Sep', 1777, it is declared that Interest at the rate of 6 tº Ct. 3 ann’m should be paid on all monies which had been loaned, or sh" be loaned before the first of March, 1778, & that the Interest sh" be paid annually in Bills of Exchange at the rate of Five Livres tournois for every Dollar so due for Interest. By a subsequent Act of Congress of the 28th June,
Page 170
170 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 1780, establishing a scale of depreciation for Loan Office Certificates, the principal of such as are dated after the 1st Sep', 1777, & before the 1st March, 1778, is subject to a certain depreciation: “Pro- vided nevertheless that the same Interest & mode of payment on Certificates taken out before the 1st March, 1778, shall be contin- ued as at present, untill the principal, ascertained as aforesaid, shall be ready to be discharged.” The Act of Assembly in contempla- tion, refers to the Act of Congress as to the value in specie of the Loan Office Certificates, & as no Interest has been paid on those bearing date between the first of Sep', 1777, & the 1st March, 1778, otherwise than in Bills of Exchange. I request instructions whether I am now to pay the full Interest on such Certificates as usual, without computing any depreciation or not. I am informed by the Treasurer that the Notes are ready for delivery, but as it will require time on my part to sign & prepare them for payment, I request the Warrant of your Excellency to the Treasurer to deliver me One hundred thousand Dollars, that I may be enabled as early as possible to pay the Interest due to such of the public Creditors as shall produce proper Vouches, there being many on whose Certificates no doubt can arise, whose necessitys render them impatient to receive such relief as this payment may afford them. I have the honor to be with great respect, your Excellency's most obedient & most hbl. Serv", THOS. SMITH, Comº Contº Lo. Office f for the State of Pennsylvania. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President of the State of Pennsylvania. Thomas SMITH TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Philada., June 20th, 1783. Sr Certificates are presented for the payment of Interest, Issued in the names of Jer" Wadsworth, Comy Gen', & John Cox, Q.' Mº Genl., which they received from the Loan Office of this State in pay for Warrants of Congress in their favº, & with which they paid for services done, & for things purchased of the Citizens of this State; but as those Gen'n were not Citizens of this State, ought it to preclude the possessors, Citizens of this State, from receiving their Interest. Is not Interest on Loan Office Certificates Issued for the pay- . º s
End of Section 62. Continue to next section or 
Section 63
Page 171
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 171 ment of prizes drawn in the Lottery to the Citizens of this State to be paid as on others. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Y' Excellency's most obed servº, THOS. SMITH, C, C. L. Office for the State of Pennsylvania. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President of the State of Pennsylvania. ResoluTION OF House of DELEGATES To VIRGINIA, 1783. In the House of Delegates, Friday, June 27th, 1783. Mr. Maun Page reported from the Committee of Propositions and Grievancies that the Committee had according to order had un- der their consideration the Memorial of John Campbell to them referred and had agreed to a report and came to several resolutions thereupon, which he read in his place and afterwards delivered in at the Clerks Table when the same were again twice read, amended and agreed to by the House as followeth : “It appears to your Committee by a resolution passed by the Assembly on the twenty-third of June, 1780, that the agreement made on the 31* day of August, 1779, between James Madison and Robert Andrews, Commissioners for the Commonwealth of Wir- ginia, and George Bryan, John Ewing and David Writtenhouse Commissioners for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, be ratified and finally confirmed to wit.: that the line commonly called Masons and Dixons line be extended due West five Degrees of longitude to be computed from the River Delaware for the Southern Boundary of Pennsylvania, and that a Meredian drawn from the Western ex- tremity thereof, to the Northern limits of the said States respec- tively be the Western Boundary of Pennsylvania for ever On con- dition that the private property & rights of all persons acquired under, founded on, or required by the laws of either County Previ- ous to the date hereof, be saved and confirmed to them, altho' they should be found to fall within the other, and that in the Decision of disputes thereupon, preference shall be given to the elder or prior right which ever of the said States, the same shall have been ac- quired under such persons paying to that State within whose boun- dary their lands shall be included, the same purchase or considera-
Page 172
172 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. tion money which would have been due from them to the States under which they claimed, the right and where any such purchase or consideration money hath since the declaration of American Independence been received by either state for lands which accord- ing to the before recited agreement shall fall within the territory of the other, the same shall be reciprocally refunded and repaid.” It also appears that the said John Campbell hath lately returned from a captivity of three years, and that from his confinement he was unable to secure his title to lands taken up under the laws of and supposed to lie in this State, but are said to be within the Territory ceded to the State of Pennsylvania, by which means there is Danger of his title, to the said lands not being confirmed without the payment of a large sum of money, as that State it is suggested makes no distinction between the settlers on the lands within their Chartered limits, & those ceded by this State, That the Militia Offi- cers labour under Difficulties from the apprehension of suits being commenced against them by the Individuals who were called into Militia service under the laws of this State; that a Judgment hath already been obtained against L' Col" Cox, for a considerable sum on that account, and that suits are now depending against two others for the same Cause. Resolved, that it is the opinion of this Committee that the Governor ought to be desired to write to the Executive of the State of Pennsylvania, reminding them of the terms of the Cession, as contained in the said Resolution, of the twenty-third of June, 1780, and requesting that the Legislative, Executive, and Judiciary Depart- ments of that state will in all their proceedings conform to the spirit and intention thereof: Resolved, that it is the opinion of this Committee that the Ex- ecutive ought to appoint a Surveyor or Surveyors in conjunction with others to be appointed by the State of Pennsylvania, to run the boundary lines as agreed to by the Commissioners from each state at Baltimore, in the year 1779, to be binding on this state in case the State of Pennsylvania shall conform to the Conditions of the said Cession Teste, JOHN BECKLEY, C. H. D. 1783, June 27th. Agreed to by the Senate, Will Drew, C. S. A Copy. Teste, JOHN BECKLEY, C. H. D.
Page 173
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 173 * RICHARD HENRY LEE TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1780. Si Richmond in Virginia, June the 30°, 1780. 1r, Your favor of April the 15th did not reach me until about twelve days ago, at this place, where I have been attending the general assembly for two months past. I should e'er this have paid my respects to you, had I not waited to see the progress of the business concerning the unhappy territorial dispute between our states. I have now the happiness to inform you that our Legislature hath consented to confirm the agreement of the commissioners, interposing a few conditions relating chiefly to quieting the possessions of the inhabitants, which I think your state will find no difficulty in agreeing to. The instrument of confirmation will, I suppose, be sent to you shortly. I must here observe, that the act of our assembly on which the commissioners for adjusting land claims exercised jurisdiction in the disputed territory, I am well informed, was not the effect of design—in a general system, it was, thro' inattention, omitted to except the country in dispute. It can- not surely be wondered at that the Assembly took some time to con- sider about confirming a measure of magnitude, by no means made final by the consent of the commissioner. I am not, sir, unac- quainted with the jealousy that you mention has been entertained against this state, nor am I uninformed that it is without just founda- tion and it is surely the business of every good citizen of the United States to compose and extirpate a principle so malign, and which may produce such fatal consequences to our union, Virginia is not without its faults, but where is the State or the Man that is so? I hope, however, that our sister commonwealth of Pennsylvania will be satisfied that the purest principles of amity and union govern us. This assembly had once rejected the finance plan of Congress of the 18th of March, but the question has been since revived, and a bill ordered in for its adoption. The bill is now on its passage, and we hope will be finally consented to. Our latest accounts from the southward inform us, that Lord Cornwallis, with 3,000 men, was posted at Camden in South Caro- lina, with outposts above and below him, having 600 men at one and, and 400 at the other—that he is collecting magazines of pro- visions and calling on the country people of whom he had taken paroles to come in, [to] swear allegiance to the King of Great Britain, and bear arms against their country. , Baron Kalb and Gen. Casewell, when joined by 2,500 of our Militia, now on their March to North Carolina, will have a body of between seven and eight thousand men—at present the operations there are greatly retarded by the want of provisions, but we expect to remove this difficulty by the power of a law just passed for collecting the surplus provisions of every family, grain, salt, *; &c., &c.
Page 174
174 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. > The Bay of Chespeake has at this time 3 frigates and six or seven privateers in it—they came in pursuing a fleet of Merchantmen from Baltimore and this State, that had collected for defence and were going out—it would seem that the enemy had been advertised of the sailing of this fleet. The generous exertions of your State at the present great crisis, does honor to the commonwealth and its councils—I wish the exam- ple may inspire, as it ought, the rest of this sleeping union. I beg my respectful compliments may be presented to the Ladies of your family, and that you will be assured f am, with much esteem and regard, Sir, your most obedient and very humble servant, RICHARD HENRY LEE. P. S.—I have said that our Legislature hath consented, &c.; the Senate have passed our instrument of confirmation with a small amendment that will create no difference between the houses. Directed,—His Excellency Joseph Reed, Esquire, President of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania at Philadelphia. THOMAS SMITH TO PREs. DICKINson, 1783. S Philade, July 1st, 1783. in the Letter" which I had the honor to receive from your Excel- lency in answer to my application for instructions in executing the duties required of me by Act of Assembly respecting the payment of Interest on Loan Office Certificates, your Excellency was pleased to say, respecting Certificates bearing date the 1st Sep", 1777, & the 1st March, 1778, that it seemed to the Council that the Interest on such Certificates should be computed according to the depreciation, In consequence of which I have tendered that mode of computation, to such holders of those certificates as have applied for the payment of Interest on them; but they are not willing to acquiesce in it. Some seem disposed to wait patiently till the matter shall be more fully decided on; but others are differently inclined, and are rather peremptory in their demands of the full Interest—Clamours are likely to arise, And as I wish to save your Excellency & the Council the trouble of numerous applications on this point from individuals —I take the liberty of requesting more particular instructions con- cerning it. I have the honor to be, - with the greatest respect, Y: Excellency's most obed H. Sº, THO. SMITH, C. Lo. Office for the state of Penns". His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq. * See page 168.
End of Section 63. Continue to next section or 
Section 64
Page 175
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. I75 Mons. MARBOIs To PREs. DrcKINsoN, 1783. Philadelphia, the 19th July, 1783. Sir, I have the honour to inform your Excellency that yesterday between three and four o'clock a vessel arrived in this harbour having French flag. She were ordered by the Commander of the King's Ship now in this River (the Pintade) to come and give information according to our naval laws: the Captain having not Complied with the Order given, a French Midshipman went on board, was very insolently answer'd and threatened to be thrown over board; he withdrew & it was not untill this morning that I was in- formed the Wessel is an English who took the advantage of French colours to be admitted here for fear she would not be received under English she has still the French flag & asserts no body will be able to oblige him to strike it. I desire your Excellency will be so obliging as to order what you & Council shall think fit in such a case for this breach of public faith and the imposition upon the State of Pennsylvania. For our part we request also the English Captain be obliged to go on board the Pintade, there to beg pardon for the insult offered to the French officers under a false flag & that he be obliged according to the Laws of Nation, immediately to strike the French flag he had deceptiously hoisted. I desire you will be so obliging as to let me know what measures will be adopted in the case, that I may give proper information to Mr. Prevot de la Croix, the Captain of the King's Ship. I am with respect your Excellency's most humble & obedient Servant, MARBOIS. Gov. HARRIson, of VIRG'A, To PREs. DICKINSoN, 1783. Virginia Council Chamber, July 23d, 1783. Sir, Your favour of the 3d Instant, came to hand by the last post. I never had a doubt of the rectitude of the Pensylvania Government or suspected their Intentions of infringing the agreement entered into by the two States, notwithstanding which the people who have been given up to you may be aggrievd by your Magistrates and subordinate Officers, particular Instances of which have been pointed out where Officers of Militia have been prosecuted in your Courts
Page 176
176 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. and severe Damages given against them for acting in conformity to the Laws of this State and in obedience to the orders of Govern- ment, and I make no doubt but your Excellency will on enquiry find the facts to be so. You will excuse me for not agreeing with you that the application here was improper, the complainants have been given up by this State on certain Conditions, if those Con- ditions are not performed to whom are the Sufferers to apply for redress but to those who gave them up, it being altogether a public concern and not an Individual one, however it is now unnecessary for me to enter farther into the subject as your Excellency will see by the enclosed that the Assembly have laken up the subject and I beg the favor of you to lay their Resolution before your Assembly. As the happy period, for which the running the astronomical Line between the two States was postponed is now arrived, and it is highly necessary there should be a final end put to this Business that the minds of the people may be quieted and every man know with certainty to which State he belongs. I hope you can have no objection to the appointment of Commissioners on your part to do the work as soon as it can be done with propriety, when you favor me with your Determination I will take care to have them appointed on our part and to see that they be provided with every thing neces- sary for completing the Business. I have the Honor to be with perfect esteem and respect your Excellency's most Obedient Humble Servant, BENJ. HARRISON. Directed, To His Excellency John Dickinson. Thos. McKEAN, C. J., To PREs. DICKINSON, 1783. Sir, Doctor William Moland the son of John Moland Esquire deceased was attainted of treason in virtue of a Proclamation of the Supreme Executive Council, dated in June, 1778. He surrendered himself in August following, and by the Advice of the then Council, I admitted him to Bail on the 4th September, 1778, with a view to a pardon, which has not yet issued, owing (I believe) to his case having been forgotton, and to his own inattention to it. His case was represented to stand thus; he went into Phila- delphia without the permission or knowledge of Government in the Spring of 1778, when in possession of the British Army, and immediately took a passage for Antigua or St Christophers from whence he returned in the August following. For this conduct
Page 177
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 177 he alleged, that he was reduced in his circumstances, and had a brother in the West Indies from whom he had some expec- tations of assistance, and therefore undertook the voyage. He had before this taken the oath of allegiance to the State, and acted in the Militia &c., on the side of his country, and has done so ever since, tho' he appears to be rather an imprudent young man, and perhaps cared little about the event of contest. These are all the circumstances I now recollect, relating to this affair: he has begged of me to mention them to your Excellencey and the Council, hoping that upon due consideration of all circum- stances, he may now obtain a parden. I know of no weighty objections to his wishes being gratified and, from the length of time since the transaction, and the other public occurrences, I am induced to recommend him to the mercy & pardon of Government. I have the honor to be Sir, with great regard your Excellency's, & the Council's most obedient humble servant, THO. McKEAN. Philadelphia, July 28th 1783. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President, &c., of Penn- sylvania. RESOLUTION OF ASSEMBLY, 1783. State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly. Friday, August 22d, 1783, A. M. The committee appointed August 19, on the message from Council dated August 18 instant, made a further report in part, which was read, and on motion and by special order the same was read the second time, whereupon, - Resolved, secondly that Mr. Steinmetz, Mr. Penrose and Mr. J. Morris be a committee to confer with Council on the subject of remov- ing the obstructions to navigation in the river Delaware, and report thereon. - Extract from the minutes, * J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk of the General Assembly.
End of Section 64. Continue to next section or 
Section 65
Page 178
178 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1783. State of Pennsylvania In General Assembly Thursday September 1783, A. M. The report of the committee, read yesterday, was read the second time, and adopted as follows, viz. The committee to whom the memorial of the inhabitants of the county of Bucks, on the subject of the death of the late Major Kennedy, was referred, beg leave to report. That in consideration of the gallantry and good conduct of the said Major Kennedy in a successful attempt upon a party of robbers, felons and burglars, in which he received a mortal wound, and the misfortune, which a wife and tender offspring must naturally experience in his death, they beg leave to submit the following resolution. Resolved, unanimously, that the Supreme Executive Council be required to pay by draught on the treasury of this State, into the hands of the Executors or administrators of the before mentioned Major Kennedy the sum of three hundred pounds, to be divided in six equal shares for the use of his widow and five children. Extracts from the minutes, PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly. Directed, - To the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council. DR. HUTCHINSON TO PREs. DICKINSON.—HoSPITAL, 1783. Dr. Hutchinson begs leave to inform his Excellency the Presi- dent and Council that the Hospital on State Island is now in a situ- ation to accommodate the sick comfortably, the rooms are fitted up and bunks are made, the Steward & matron are careful and attentive, but bedding is much wanted and the sick suffer on that account, the expence for two or three bolts of oznabrigs would be but trifling, and the matron would make them up into bed covers herself provided they were purchased; 16 sick are now at the Hospital & Dr. Hutch- inson has ordered 11 more down this morning. - Sept. 22d 1783.
Page 179
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 179 * RESOLUTIONS OF ASSEMBLY, 1783. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Monday, September 22, 1783, A.M. The report of the committee on the memorial of the officers of the Pennsylvania line, was read the second time, and adopted, and is as follows, (viz.:) The committee from whom the Message from the Supreme Execu- tive Council, dated September 9, 1783,” together with the memorial of the Officers of the Pennsylvania line, were referred, beg leave to report: That having duly considered the Message and Memorial they offer the following resolutions to the House. 1st. That it is equally the interest of the State, and the Officers, to accept the proposed commutation in lieu of half pay—this House does accordingly adopt the ordinance of Congress as follows: “By the United States in Congress assembled, “March 23, 1783. “On the report of a committee to whom was referred a motion “ of Mr. Dyer, together with the memorial of the officers of the “Army, and the report of the committee thereon, Congress came to “the following resolutions: “Whereas the officers of the several lines under the immediate “command of his Excellency General Washington, did by their “late memorial transmitted by their committee, represent to Con- “gress, that the half pay granted by sundry resolutions, was re- “garded in an unfavorable light by the citizens of some of these “states, who would prefer a compensation for a limited term of “years, or by a sum in gross to an establishment for life, and did, “on that account, solicit a commutation of their half pay for an “equivalent in one of the two modes above mentioned, in order to “remove all subject of dissatisfaction from the minds of their fel- “low subjects. “And whereas, Congress are desirous, as well of gratifying the “reasonable expectations of the officers of the Army, as of remov- “ing all objections which may exist in any part of the United “States, to the principles of the half pay establishment, for which “the faith of the United States hath been pledged, persuaded that “those objections can only arise from the nature of the compensa- “tion, not from any indisposition to compensate those whose ser- “vices, sacrifices and sufferings have so just a title to the approba- “tion and rewards of their country. “Therefore Resolved, That such officers as are now in the service “ and shall continue therein to the end of the war shall be entitled “to receive the amount of five years full pay in money, or securi- * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIII., p. 682.
Page 180
180 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. “ties on interest at six #2 cent. per annum, as Congress shall find “most convenient, instead of the half pay promised for life by the “resolution of the twenty day of October, 1780; the said securities “to be such as shall be given to other creditors of the United States, “provided it be at the option of the lines of the respective States, “ and not of officers individually in the lines, to accept or refuse the “same, and provided also, that their election shall be signified to “Congress through the Commander in chief, from the lines under “his immediate command, within two months, and through the “commanding officer of the Southern Army, of those under his com- “mand, within six months from the date of this resolution. “That the same commutations shall extend to the corps not be- “longing to the lines of particular ståtes, and who are entitled to “half pay for life, as aforesaid; the acceptance or refusal to be “determined by corps and to be signified in the same manner, and “within the same time as above mentioned. That all officers be- “longing to the hospital department; who are entitled to half pay “by the resolution of the seventeenth day of January, 1781, may “collectively agree to accept or refuse the aforesaid commutation, “signifying the same through the Commander in chief within six “ months from this time. That such officers as have retired at “different periods, entitled to half pay for life, may collectively in “each state of which they are inhabitants, accept or refuse the “same; their acceptation or refusal to be signified by agents, au- “thorized for that purpose, within six months from this period; “that with respect to such retiring officers, the commutation if ac- “cepted by them, shall be in lieu of whatever may be now due to “them since the time of their retiring from service, as well as of “what might hereafter become due; and that so soon as their ac- “ceptance shall be signified, the Superintendant of finance be, and “he is hereby, directed to take measures for the settlement of their “accounts accordingly, and to issue to them certificates bearing “interest at six per cent. That all officers entitled to half pay for “life, not included in the preceding resolutions may also collec- “tively agree to accept or refuse the aforesaid commutation signify- “ing the same within six months from this time. 2. Resolved, that it be recommended, most earnestly to the suc- ceeding Assembly to provide adequate funds, for the purpose of insuring the commutation as above set forth. 3. That one half the sum in the hands of the naval officer, or that may come into his hands, being now actually due, under the Acts of Assembly for raising an import passed the 23" of day Decem- ber, 1780, and the “Act for guarding and defending the navigation “in the bay and river Delaware, and for other purposes therein “mentioned,” passed the Ninth day of April, 1782, and the “Act “for raising an impost on goods, wares or merchandize, imported “ or brought into this state by land,” passed the 22" day of Novem- ber, 1782, and the “Act for raising and collecting of money on the
Page 181
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 181 “specified articles therein mentioned, for the support of govern- “ment, and for other purposes therein mentioned,” passed the 20" day of March last, be, and the same is hereby appropriated for the use of the officers, deranged on the first day of January last, and now to be deranged in proportion to their pay and rank; they to be accountable, and that the Supreme Executº Council, be hereby empowered to make the necessary arrangements, and draw on the naval officer for the sum above appropriated. Your committee further observe that such parts of the memorial, as respect certificates for pay are already provided for by bills before the House; and that part which requests the House to assume all their debts, and to allow interest on commutation to the deranged officers, are of such a nature as to take up too much time in this pre- sent sitting, and therefore recommend it to the notice of the suc- ceeding House. Extract from the Minutes. J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk, of the General Assembly. Directed, For the honorable the Supreme Executive Council. DoRSEY PENTEcoST TO PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Si Philadelphia, October 6th, 1783. 1r, For several years previous to the Settlement of the Territorial dispute between this State and Virginia, and at the time that Wash- ington County was laid out by this State, I enjoyed the Office of Clerk of the Court for Yohogania County in Virginia, which office included that of Prothonotary of the Court of Common Pleas, Clerk of the Quarter Sessions, and Clerk of the Orphans' Court, with other Offices, by the Constitution of this State, made Seperate and Inde- pendent Offices. The County of Yohogania is almost entirely taken into this State by the Settlement, and line run between the two States. Those offices that I enjoyed under the other Government were Wrested from me, and Given to Thomas Scott, Esquire, a person who then was not nor yet is an Inhabitant of the County, but a Gentleman well Qualified for that office. How consistent this Treatment to me was with the Solemn agree- ment between the two States, I leave your Honorable Board to determine, which says, “That the private property and rights of all “persons acquired under, founded on, or recognized by the Laws of “either Country, previous to the date (of that agreement) Shall be
Page 182
182 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. “saved and confirmed unto them, although they should be found to “fall within the other. The perticuliar Situation of affairs at that time made it prudent as well as Necessary for me to Submit to the Injury done me without a multinuit. But as there is nowº new County laid out by the name of Fayette, in which Mr. Scott resides, and who Certainly is the most Capable person in that County to fill that Office, Justice can be done with ease and propriety. I therefore humbly hope your Honorable Board will be pleas'd to appoint Mr. Scott Prothonotary, with the usual Offices annexed, in the County of Fayette. And that your Honor- able Board will be pleas'd to do me Justice in restoring of me to the Offices in your gift, which I held in the County of Washington previous to Mr. Scott's appointment, and which I discharged for a Series of years with unimpeached Integrity. I beg leave to inform your Excellency and Council that this mode of proceeding will not only give Satisfaction to the Public, but be perfectly consistent with the wish of Mr. Scott, as far as this busi- ness relates to him, I have his declared acquiesence. Knowing the Justice as well as Humanity of the Gentlemen Composing your Honble Board, and Conscious of the uprightness of my own Heart, and the rectitude of my Intentions, and Viewing, I hope, with an Impartial Eye the Circumstances attending this busi- ness, I look up to your Honorable Board for redress in this par- ticular. I shall not say one word respecting the Gentlemen Candidates for the Offices of Fayette, although unanswerable reasons could be assigned of the Impropriety of appointing either of them to the offices aforesaid. Having had the honor of Serving as a member of your Honorable Board for almost two years, I can but feel the greatest anxiety of now retiring from amongst you, which I would not do under any Consideration, did not the time of my Election Expire in a few days, and which I must anticipate by a voluntary resignation, and which this Letter serves to announce. Indeed a personal Declaration would be very painful, for be assured that I have the most perfect Esteem for your Excellency and the Gentlemen composing your Honorable Board, and here permit me to Express my hearty and Sincere wishes that your Excellency may have a Happy administra- tion, and that you and your associates may live in perfect Harmony, while you continue together in your Country's Service. I have the Honor to be with perfect Esteem and Sincere regard, Your Excellencies most Devoted and Very Humble Servant, DORSEY PENTECOST. His Excellency, John Dickinson.
End of Section 65. Continue to next section or 
Section 66
Page 183
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1783. 183 THOMAS MIFFLIN To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1783. Annapolis, Decem. 23rd, 1783. Sir, ** I have the honor to inform you that this day at twelve o'clock His Excellency General Washington had a public audience of Con- gress, resigned his Commission and took his leave of all the employ- ments of public life. The General's address & the answer of Congress I enclose for the satisfaction of your Excellency & the Honorable Council. The Delegates of Pennsylvania will write to your Excellency by the next post & give you a detail of the business which has been acted upon in Congress since their arrival here. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency's & Council's obed. Servt. THOMAS MIFFLIN Directed, His Excellency President Dickinson. J. MooRE TO PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Sir, * By Mr. Shepard I do myself the pleasure to write your Ex- cellency, and as he has for some time Past, been an inhabitant of this Place, and Possesed of a great share of the Confidence of Connecticut claimants, we will be able to give your Excellency just information of their Proceedings and intentions. He is charged with the Petition I Hinted to you, was in hands for the Honble Assembly, it is signed by a few of the claimants, who disaprove of the measures laterly adopted by many of the People here. They are anxious to have the Benefits of former Resolves of the Honble House extended to them. How far they have complied with the intentions of the Assembly, (altho at a late Hour) their Petition will evince. The committee of Assembly appointed to Enquire into the Unconstitutional Proceedings of the judicial officers of this Place are arrived; and will Proceed to business this day. I trust their conduct will appear very different from what it has been Repre- sented.
Page 184
184 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. How far the Military force may be Necessary to support the authority of the state in this Place, Mr. Shepard will be able to inform you. I have the honor to be, your Excellency's most obedient & very Hble. serve., J. MOORE. Fort Dickinson, December 29, 1783. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President of the State of Pennsylvania. Indorsed, 1784, January 20th. From Major James Moore. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1784. In General Assembly, Monday, January 5, 1784. The papers transmitted with the foregoing message, were also read, and on motion, and by special order the said message and papers were read the second time.* Ordered, that they be referred to Mr. Delany, Mr. Long, Mr. Hubley, Mr. McPherson and Mr. Carothers to report thereon: and that they be instructed to confer with Council thereon if they deem it necessary. Extract from the Minutes. PETER Z. LLOYD. Clerk of the General Assembly. PRES. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CoNGRESS, 1784. In Council, January 7th, 1784. Gentlemen, We have received your two letters of the 30th of last Month,t and are sorry such a Difficulty as you mentioned concerning the Ratification of the Definitive treaty should have arisen. We hope it will be removed in a few days, by the attendance of several Members of Congress. If it should not be removed in time, we are clearly of opinion, that on all the Circumstances of the case, the Ratification ought to be agreed to, by seven States. * See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV. p. 11. f See p. 155, 156.
Page 185
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 185 With Respect to the General's future situation, our meaning only is, that he should not be permitted to suffer by the eminent services he had rendered to his Country. “A Grant of a sum of Money,” we apprehend, he would not accept; perhaps he may reject the offer of “an annual sum to indemnify him for expenses, which may arise from the particular situation he must be in.” This is our Idea; and after such previous Consultations as your Pru- dence will suggest, we should be glad, if the proposition in some general Form might be brought into the Consideration of Congress. The Mode must be left to their politeness, & the substance to their generosity to determine. There appears to us no Impropriety, in the general's table being kept up during his Life, as Commander in Chief. We will lay before The General Assembly your observation, respecting the expense of copying public papers. I am, Gent., Your Most obt. servt., JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Honorable the Delegates of Pennsyvania. SAMUEL CALDWELL TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1783. Philada, Jany., 1784. Sir, I would beg leave to remind your Excellency and through your favour to sollicit the attention of the Supreme Executive Council to a matter that seems to require their interposition in order to obtain Justice, which tho' often demanded could not be procured from your Predecessors in office. The affair is in short this. On the 21st June 1780, I bought at a public auction held by the Commissioners for the sale of Confis- cated Estates in the County of Philadelphia, a Tract of Land on Hog Island“ as being late the property of Joseph Galloway, and having punctually paid them the purchase money agreeeble to the terms of sale. I apply'd for a Deed, but in obtaining this, I met with unexpected delays & difficulties which perhaps it may be un- necessary to trouble you with a recital of, I will only inform your Excellency & the Honorable Council, that I did not obtain a Deed till' the 9th day of May 1782 and that tho' this Deed did not grant me all the property I purchased & paid for, yet I was then content to receive it, rather than suffer a longer delay & be engaged in a dispute or litigation for a just right, in full expectation however, that I should receive immediate possession of the premises, & that a just compensation would be made me, for the Injury I sustained by the delay, which it cannot be alledged was occasioned by any failure on my part. * Col. Rec. Vol. XIV., p. 414.
Page 186
186 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. The Deed being at length obtained and also an order from the Supreme Executive Council issued to the Commissioners & the Sheriff of the County to give me possession,--I attended them for that purpose, but as we were not suffered to to land upon the Island, the order was not executed and I am still deprived of my Right. At the time I made this purchase I was entirely ignorant of any Claim or Incumberance being on the Premises, and the Commissioner declared it to be sold in Fee Simple & clear of any. I made fre- quent applications to the Supreme Executive Council during the Presidency of Mr. Moore, but without Effect tho' he often gave me to understand that Justice should be done and as all I ever wished or now sollicit is Justice, I have no doubt.. your Excellency & the Honorable Council will take this matter into consideration & grant Redress. The Records of Council will no doubt furnish you with more information on this Subject, but if my attendance should be thought necessary I will immediately attend upon notice. I am with great Respect, your Excellency's most Obd. Servt. SAM. CALDWELL. Directed, His Excellency the President of the Supreme Executive Council. Indorsed, Jany. 8, 1782. MICHAEL HUFFNAGLE TO MAJOR ARMSTRONG, 1784. January 8th, 1784. Dr. Sir, I mentioned to you some time ago about the reserved Tract opposite Pittsburg & lately wrote you concerning the appointment of agents for confiscated Estates for this County. I now take the Liberty to mention to Council that at last October Term, three Indictments where Brought against three persons for Keeping Tipling House in Beasons Town, upon which Process issued to bring them to answer to the Indictments, when the Sheriff went to take them, they were advised by Mr. Thomas Scott their attorney to resist the Sheriff & not to appear, the reasons he gave for his doing so was, that the New County was fixed by Assembly in September, that the Courts of Westmoreland had no jurisdiction there after that date. Now I shall be obliged to you for the opinion of Council what steps should have been taken; the Courts in Fayette could not take place by Law untill the twenty third day of December following & we had no notice of the County untill some time after October Court. If this Court could not have the Jurisdiction those People must have lived in a state of confusion for they could not have any Jurisdiction untill the day I mentioned Before, although Mr. Scott about three weeks Before, got some of the * See Col. Rec., XIV. p. 4.
End of Section 66. Continue to next section or 
Section 67
Page 187
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 187 Majestrates to meet, opened a Court, appointed their judge & issued Writs ret’ble. the day appointed by Law for opening the Court, if proceedings of this kind should be countenanced the state will loose her fines, & anarchy & confusion must take place, you will please to write me as soon as possible. your most obt. Hble. Servi. MICH. HUFFNAGLE: Major Armstrong. Directed (On Public Service.) Major John Armstrong, jr., Secretary to Council, Philadelphia. J. MooRE TO PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Sir, The Committee directed by the Hon’ble Assembly to enquire into the Charges Set forth in a petition from the inhabitants of Wyoming, have gone thro’ the investigation, and have this morning left this place. How far the testimony adduced in support of the charges may appear to criminate the Civil and Military officers, in takeing decisive Measures to diffuse & support the laws, we must leave the Hon’ble House to judge; but when they duly Consider the Testi- mony on Our part, evidently tending to discover that a dangerous insurrection was intended, I trust their Conduct will merit some applause. As I am not charged with even the shadow of an offence, (the measures complained of being done Previous to my arrival,) I con- ceive myself the more at liberty to appear in their Behalf. By what I can learn from the Committee that was here, it appears to be the intention of the House to dismiss the Troops at this place; it is observed by those who wish the dissolution of the Corps, “that the expence is great, and that there is no Necessity “for keeping it up, as the People claiming under Connecticut dis- “claim a conduct inconsistent with the true interests of the State.” —The expence in keeping up the corps for a few months, must be small, the men being already raised, clothed, and Provisions, agreea- bly to Contract, laid in for some months to Come—and should it be the intention of the Hon’able the Assembly to invest the Proprietors under Penn" with the lands they have long since purchased; I must beg leave to Represent the Imediate Necessity of Troops being kept here to support the civil Jurisdiction, untill the Owners Can be put in Possession of their property—and to prevent Insurrections and Quarrels, which are much to be dreaded in the Spring, about who shall Cultivate the land. Since the decision of the Commissioners at Trenton, and since the Garrison has been here, all the Pennsylvania landholders have been
Page 188
188 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. looking forward to the Happy Period that now offers of Giving them Quiet Possession of that Property which has, with equal injustice, been taken and kept from them this many years;–they wish to avail themselves of the support of this Garrison, untill they get Pos- session and Grow numerous—should it be deemed too expensive to support the present number of officers and men allotted for this Garrison, let it be reduced to a Capt., 2 Subs., and 75 men, that will be a force, if not sufficient to supress Insurrections, (should they be attempted,) it will, at least, be sufficient to support the Garrison untill succor can be Had; It will also Give the Highest Confidence to the Pennsylvania Land holders, who will generally take Measures for Obtaining Possesion of their Property in the spring, (While they Otherways Would Not,) and remove the Great object of Con- troversy, and Put the land under such Cultivation as would add much to the advantage of the State. To facilitate the Improvement of this Country, and to alleviate the sufferings of Hundreds already born down with the oppression of those people, Might it Not be proper to recommend a Law making it Justifyable in the sheriff of the county where an ample Title is produced, to put the Owner in Possesion of his land without the slow and Expensive Process of the laws now in force, which many Good Citizens, from being so long debared the use of their lands, are Unable to support. A Measure of this Kind would most amply settle all disputes early in the Spring, when the Troops might be dismissed, and the country [put] under such Improvement and Cul- tivation as would enable the Possesors to bear a Proportion of the Public debts. Alexander Patterson, Esq., made me acquainted with a Petition presented to your Excellency and Council, by Abel Yarrington, respecting a House he formerly possesed in this Garrison, altho' he was Ordered to remove to a house Provided and put in repair by the Troops for his Reception before I arrived at this place. I must acknowledge it Met with my Warmest approbation—and I trust it will appear consistent with the Verbal instructions, not only delivered to me by Council, but those which Capt. Shrawder had previously received—those officers who directed his Removal, has made Esq. Patterson fully acquainted with their Reasons—I must beg leave to refer you to his Report. Inclosed your Excellency will find a Monthly Return of the Corps, the muster & Payrolls, and the Inspection Return for the Month of December I shall have finished and forwarded as early as possible. The situation of the sick has oblidged me to apply to a Physician; the Inclosed list of Medicines, he says, is necessary and Imediately wanted. ... I have the Honor to be - your Excellency's Most and very Hble. serv't J. MOORE. Fort Dickison, Jan'y 9, 1784. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President of the State.
Page 189
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. I 8 9 . . . C ºf 5- Hºt 1 o : R : E 3. c- E -5 - tº ºr o ż É E: I E. ă > E. S. E. E. "c -- ºf - E f" … •c E; o - - - - o * 2 B to $: O - gods. É # É .5 e- re J” G- i -> c -> Er- 3. * 3 ºn 3 gº • - P- 3 § 2 º § 5 # 3. Ž. 5 : :- £2. $: #3. # 3 I - I ITT-T Major. —is |-ri E. - *- I - I - I | Captains. 5 3 * T.E.T tº TSTTsubaſterns. ~ - K- | - || - Tsºrt. Major. z t; E. I - *- FT ºr Mr. Serjeant. Ig £ g t * I to Triº I serjeant. 5 - - - I tº - IT- Drums. à É 3 i tºw - T - T Fifes. tr s - Ca - # 3 E; 3 || 3 | fit ºr Duty. | 9 * B. z. | On Duty. º E. c cº Cº ow I Sick present. * c E. 3 º tº *-4 *- * absent. |; É -> S- 3. | | On Commnd. | cr" 5. º - o H | * Furlough. |te § 3 3: ER ty- ce I cut I - * Extra service. |: Q4 c 3’ & TTTTCCºnnel. $3.5- Ö 5 B | SCTETH-TToºl. # * :3 a co º-1 -> ch * , a É ºr ºf | ETET to Isº s: +- - - ~ o - Drums & fifes. |55 ~1.52. Fo E - | | | * – lº. " 92.5 º rº- I tº I tºo Frn Cº - 5 § 3 || 3 | P: | 3 || Rank & file # = - 2. -- E - | * > -- :* - -> S. E: 3 to I - I - I Dead. §§ 3. E. gº & # - | < | + | nºn- # 3 E +: | I Discharged. * = - 8 º' Serjeants. - E: F. - : Drums & fifes. É. 3 tº F. cº Tºo TNSTT Rank ºf le. 3. -- co º Jº - The situation of the sick has made it necessary for me to apply to * Physican in the Neighbourhood, and as it will be attended with * expence to the State to furnish the Medicine necessary in the *es that may appear. I have procured the above list, which I wish may be forwarded as Early as possible.* . J. MOORE. * Not inserted. Wol. X-9.
Page 190
190 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. WM. SMITH To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. - - Philº, Jan; 12th, 1784. Sir, Certificates which have undergone a final settlement & Liquida- tion by Joseph Nourse, Esq., Register Gen', are presented for the payment of Interest, they seem to come within the intention of the act of Assembly, I trust your Exc" & the Hon” Councils opinion, whether I am to pay the Interest on them. I have nearly paid the amount of the last Warrant, beg another on the Treas for the like sum. I have the honor to be, with great Respect, Sir, y' most obed. Hble. Servt., THO. SMITH, Cr. Cl. L. office, for the State of Pennsylvania.” Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq.", President of the State of Pennsylvania. STATE OF BERKs County, MILITIA, 1784. January 13, 1784. 1783. Apointment, April the 19th, Meger, January the 3, 1784; all the Rest the 21 of April, 1783. - FIRST BATTALION. Nicholas Lutz, Esq., L'Col. apointed the 19 Ap., 1783. Jacob Bower, Esq.", Major, Jan. 3, 1784. HEILDEBERG. CUMRU. . 1 Comp'. No of Men. 8 Comp'. Adam Hain, Capt. John Weidner, Capt. Peter Kole, Lt. } 115 Christian Bechtel, Lt. 106 John Hain, En. } David Punzius, En. } - READING. READING. 2 Comp'. 4 Comp'. Peter Nagel, Capt. Conrad Geist, Capt. Christian Madery, Lt. } Henry Brown, Lt. }º Ernst Gross, En. Jacob Leitheuser, En. * See Col. Rec. Wol. X1W. p. 6.
Page 191
PENNSYLVANLA ARCHIVES 1784. 191 HEIDELBERG. 5 Comy. Sebastian Miller, Capt. Adam Ruth, Lt. 81 John Gernand, En. ALSACE. 6 Comp'. - Henry Wax, ; : John Keen, Lt. 129 Ludwig Bansler, En; CUMRUE & BRECKNoo. 7 Comp'. Peter Gower, Capt. Adam Spoon, Lt. 102 Daniel Pannebecker, En. READING. 8 John Strohecker, Capt. John Kendal, Lt. 103 Hartman Leitheuser En. SEcond BATTALION. Balser Geehr, Esq., L'Col. BRUNSWIG. 1 Comp'. No. of Men. Conrad Minich, Capt. Nicholas Holler, Lt. Martin Dreibelbis, En. . BERN. 2 Comp'. Jacob Shertly, Capt. George Albrecht, Lt. Christ” Albrecht, En. WINDSOR. 3 Compy. Godfry Seidle, Capt. Simon Kreusher, Lt. Anthony Billich, En. BERN. 4 Comp'. Francis Umbehacker, #" Jacob Runkel, Lt. Jacob Heck, En. Martin Kercher, Esq., Major. WINDSOR. 5 Comp'. Jacob Chappili, Capt. George Reber, Lt. } Andrew Smith, En. BRUNswig. 6 Compſ. Jacob Wetstone, Capt. Michael Moser, Lt. George Orwig, En. } ALBANY. *- 7 Compy. Michael Brobst, Capt. George Poh, Lt. Philip Glick, En. } BERN. 8 Compy. Valentine Moser, Lt. Jacob Eppler, ju, Capt. Nicholas Lieb, En. THIRD BATTALION. Samuel Ely, Esq., L'Col. LoNGswAMP. 1 Comp'. Charles Krause, Capt. Jacob Miller, Lt. John Fenstermaker, En. ) Stephen Baldy, Esq., Major. LoNGSWAMP. 2* Comp'. Valentine Haupt, Capt. Peter Klein, Lt. } - IIenry Christ, En. -*
End of Section 67. Continue to next section or 
Section 68
Page 192
192 ARCHIVES 1784. PENNSYLVANLA } } } MAxATANY. 3 Comp'. . Michi Hinterleiter, Capt. Jacob Sigfried, ju, Lt. En. RICHMOND. 4 Compy. Christian Merkle, Capt. Philip Klein, Lt. Conrad Stenger, En. MAXATANY. 5 Compy. Jacob Sweyer, Capt. Henry Sweyer, Lt. Jacob Christ, En. GREENWICH. 6 Compy. Peter Smith, Capt. Lt. En. * Jost Suder, Henry Fisher, RICHMOND. 7 Compy. Jacob Baldy, Capt. John King, Lt. Leonard Snyder. En. MAIDENCREEK. 8 Comp'. Capt. Lt. En. FIFTH BATTALION. Henry Spyker, Esq., L’Col. Christian Lower, jun', Esq., Major. BETHEL. 1 Compy. Michael Wolf, Capt. Frederick Seybert, Lt. Chris'n Walburn j', En. TULPEBocco N. 2 Compº. John Anspach, Capt. Nicholas Seybert, Lt. John Lesher, jun', En. }º } 70 HEIDELBERG. 3 Compy. Philip Filbert, Capt. George Knopp, Lt. John Klingler, En. HEIDELBERG. 4 Comp'. Daniel Greaff, Capt. Joseph Deppy, Lt. Jonas Eckert, En. No of Men. TULPEHOCCON. 5 Comp'. John Riegel, Capt. Christopher Kern, Lt. John Walter, En. PINEGROVE. 6 Compy. -Philip Hedrich, Capt. Peter Bressler, Lt. Jacob Stein, En. } 127 TULPEHOCCON. 7 Comp'. Henry Spang, Capt. Jacob Smith, Lt. Jacob Sheffer, En. BETHEL. 8 Compy. John Folmer, Capt. Daniel Kromer. Lt. 93 Andrew Daniel, En. z
Page 193
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 193 SIXTH BATTALION. John Cunnius, Esq., L'Col. Nicholas Hunter, Esq., Major. OLEY. EARL. 1“Compy. No of Men. 5 Comp'. Daniel Leinbach, Capt. \ David Shall, Capt. John Kirlin, Lt. 70 Jacob Keen, Lt. 51 John Hunter, En. ) Balser Behm. En. } Rusco MBMANNER. OLEY. 2 Comp'. 6 Comp” Jacob Rodarmek, Capt. Jacob Hill, Capt. Jacob Price, Lt. 44 John Lesher, Lt. 70 Fred" Bengeman, En. } Abraham Lesher, En. } RockLAND. HEREFORD. 3 Comp'. - 7 Comp'. George Beeber, Capt. John Miller, Capt. Adam Zweyer, Lt. ; 103 John Goodman, Lt. }* Jacob Seybert, En. . Henry Gibson, En. CoLEBROOKDALE. EAST DISTRICT. 4 Compy. - 8 Comp'. Adam Roads, Capt. Peter Kieffer, Capt. | George Gilbert, º 92 Chris' Frey, Lt. }* George Fronhouser, En. Mathias Rechert, En. - 643 I do hereby Certify that all the Fitt officer are apointed the 19 of April, 1783, Except Magor Jacob Bower, who wose apointed on the 3 of January, 1784, and all the Rest of the officers on the 21 of April, 1783, By the Returns delivered to me. - WALENTINE ECKERT. Lt. of Berks County. PREs. OF CONGRESS To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Sir, This day nine States being represented in Congress, Wiz", Massa- thussetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina, together with one member from New Hampshire and one member from New Jersey, The Treaty of Peace was ratified by the Unanimous Vote of the members present.* - * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 11-19. *- - - - -
Page 194
194 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, This being done, Congress, by an unanimous Wote, ordered a Proclamation to be issued, enjoining the strict and faithful observ- ance thereof; and issued an earnest recommendation to the several States in the very words of the 5th Article—The Secretary is directed to forward authenticated Copies of those Acts as soon as possible to the Executives of the several States. As Mr. Morris proposes to sett off for Philadelphia on Friday, he will give your Excellency the fullest Information on the several Points which have been agitated in Congress since they met here. I am with the greatest Respect your Excellency's obed. hle. servant, THOMAS MIFFLIN. Annapolis, 14th Jan'y, 1784. Directed, His Excellency, President Dickinson, Philadelphia. T. Mifflin. RESOLUTION OF Congress, 1784. To the Claimants of the private right of Soil within the territory westward of the Delaware, heretofore in controversy between the States of Connecticut and Pennsylvania, and adjudged by the sentence of a Court constituted and appointed agreeably to the ninth of the Articles of Confederation and perpetual union, to be within the jurisdiction of the State of Pennsylvania; it is hereby made known, That sundry Individuals claiming private right of Soil under the State of Connecticut, within the said territory, have made applica- tion to Congress, stating that they have been disturbed in their said right of Soil by others claiming under the State of Pennsylvania, and praying for the institution of a Court for determining the said private right of Soil, in pursuance of the ninth article of Confedera- tion; and that the fourth Monday” in June next, is assigned for the appearance of the parties by their Lawful agents before Congress, or a Committee of the States, wheresoever they shall be then sitting to proceed in the premises as by the Confederation is directed. By order of Congress. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. Annapolis, 26th of January, 1784. Indorsed,—1784, January 26. Resolution of Congress instituting a new trial for the private right of soil.—Wyoming lands. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 31.
End of Section 68. Continue to next section or 
Section 69
Page 195
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 1955 RESOLUTION of GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Saturday, January 24, 1784. On motion, Ordered, That Mr. Speaker, by letter, request information from . the Supreme Executive Council, respecting the allotment of Estates appropriated to the use of the University. Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk of the General Assembly.* SPEAKER OF Assembly To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. - Assembly Chamber, January 26th, 1784. Sir, - Agreeable to a vote of the Honorable, the House of Assembly, a copy whereof is inclosed, I must request the information therein mentioned, in order that the same may be laid before the Generol Assembly. I am, Sir, with real respect, your most obedient Servant, GEORGE GRAY, Speaker.f Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President. PREs. DICKINson To Mons. CREveceUR, 1784. In Council, January, 1784. 's Sir, We have received the Letter you honored us with, and very gratefully acknowledge the polite & obliging Manner in which the Communications it contains have been made to us. Being perfectly sensible of the great goodness of his most Chris- tian Majesty, & the happy consequences that may be derived from his generous Intentions, we have laid the Information you have been pleased to give, before The General Assembly who are now sitting. With the most respectful Consideration, I am Sir, your most obedient & very humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON}. Indorsed, Jan'y 27, 1784. M. de Creveceur, New York. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 26. # Ib. f Ib., p. 12. -
Page 198
198 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Present Situation of affairs, dangerous consequences are to be dreaded. Should Major Christie be in Philadelphia, Lieut. Armstrong will return Immediately to this place, but should L' Armstrong find Major Chuster out of town, I have directed him to wait on Council for the two months pay agreeably to the Inclosed Muster & Pay rolls. I am with the Highest Sentiments of Esteem Your Excellencys most Obd. Servt., J. MOORE. Directed,—Fort Dickinson, Feb'y 1, 1784. Indorsed,—His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq. February 6", 1784. From Major Moore. Read & approved. ** SEC'Y ARMSTRONG TO ASSEMBLY, 1784. Si Philadelphia, Feb'y 2, 1784. Ir, º In complying with the Resolution of your Honorable House of the 29th Ult,” It becomes necessary that Council be furnished with the following papers, viz., The Report of the Commissioners sent to Wyoming “to effect a compromise with the settlers at that place & “ the owners of the Wyoming lands.” The Report of the Northampton members delegated “to enquire “into the charges exhibited in a petition from a number of the Inhabitants of Wyoming,” & the proceedings of the House upon it. I am sir your most obed. servant, - JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. Directed, - The Honorable George Gray, Esq., Speaker of the General Assembly. - MEMORIAL OF TIMOTHY MATLACK, 1784. To the Representatives of the Freemen of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in General Assembly met. The Memorial and remonstrance of Timothy Matlack of the city of Philadelphia, Sheweth, That by the printed Journal: of this Honorable house it appears that, on the 5th day of March last,f the house passed a vote of censure against him, on a repºrt of a “Committee appointed to “confer with the Comptroller General, on the subject of his letter “dated December 3, 1782, an.' also, to examine the laws respecting * See page' 196. + see V.I. ix. . p. 762.
Page 199
"PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 199 the duties of the Secretary of the Supreme Executive Council. A letter and report the contents of which have not been made known to your remonstrant, either by this honorable house, or by any committee of the house; neither has he ever received any notice whatever to appear and answer to any charge upon which that censure can possibly be founded ; and thus a heavy and exceedingly grievous censure has been passed upon him for a supposed neglect, not only without due enquiry and an open fair trial by his peers, but even without afiy specific charge made against him, or even the shadow of a trial of any kind. A proceeding unheard of in any free country ! Your remonstrant conceives it to be a fundamental and declared right of every citizen of Pennsylvania, upon every charge against him to be heard by himself and his council, to demand the cause and nature of his accusation, to be confronted with the witnesses, to call for evidence in his favour, and a speedy public trial by an impartial jury of his country, without the unanimous consent of which jury he cannot be found guilty. That he is entitled to all the rights of a Citizen, not only by the adventitious circumstances of birth and residence; but by an active, early, decisive and uniform opposition, thro’ every danger and difficulty, to that system of tyranny which had been set up against the rights and liberties of the good people of America, and a full exertion of his utmost endeavours to obtain the independence of these United States, and the establishment of our free constitution. He engaged in this cause the next day after the news of the battle of Lexington, and he continued in office until the day next after the news of the preliminary articles of peace being-signed.] His services were always most freely offered in times of the greatest difficulties and dangers, when some others retired in despair; He has not only staked his life on the success of America, and repeatedly met the enemy in the field; but he has also, seen the blood of a brother and of a beloved son shed in her sacred cause, and he thinks that the man who has paid such a price for his civil rights, and will part with them but with the last drop of his own blood, and the last gasp of life, is not only “unworthy of public “trust and confidence,” but is utterly unworthy to breathe the vital air; and if there be a member of this honorable house who has paid an equal price for them, to his heart your remonstrant appeals for the justice of the sentiment. These rights, purchased at this price by your remonstrant, he conceives has been violated by this honorable house, and it is a duty which he owes to the memory of his son, to himself, his family and * thus solemnly to remonstrate against the proceedings of the Ouse. Had this honorable house called on your remonstrant to answer to an explicit and specified charge at the bar of the house, he might well have questioned, and most certainly should have questioned
Page 200
200 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, their authority in the case, the 9th section of the constitution expressly confining it to impeachment only. Had he been legally called to answer at any bar, the charges against him would certainly have been specified; but the house have not either by themselves or their committee communicated to him the particular supposed fact on which the charge against him is founded, or the evidence on which it has been ascertained to them. His imagination can only furnish him with two, upon which he can conceive it is possible that such a charge can be pretended to be founded. One is, a report said to be propagated by the honorable Frederick A. Muhlenburg, Esqr., that he had paid into the hands of the Secretary money which was not credited in his accounts, If such a report has been propagated and acted upon, your remonstrant can only say, it is not true, and call, as he is legally entitled to do, for the evidence of the fact, and to be confronted with the witnesses. The other relates to monies paid to him by some of the Prothonotaries of counties—If this be the charge, he could have shewn, that, by law, it is expressly the duty of Prothonotaries to render to the committee appointed by General Assembly to settle the public accounts, an account of the monies received by them, and, therefore, that your remonstrant could not consider the money he received from them as making a part of the accounts he was bound by law, to keep and render; yet the accounts rendered by him into the Comptroller General's office on the 17th of March last, only twelve days after the said resolve, and within the time limited in the writ issued under the order of this house, does actually contain a faithful account of all monies received by him from those Prothonotaries. It appears by the Comptroller Generals report, on those accounts, to the President and Council, that he had “compared them” with the monies “charged to him (the Sec'y,) by the Clerks and others, so far as “their several accounts have been rendered which correspond, except “some trivial differences arising from variation in calculating the “depreciation, &c., and where those accounts have not been rendered, “it appears from the state Treasurers accounts and other circum- “stances, very improbable that any of the monies paid by them are “ therein omitted.” - Your remonstrant cannot suppose, that so severe a censure could have been, by men “worthy of public trust and confidence,” founded on such slight ground; he is therefore left at a loss even to guess on what just ground he has been so censured. The fact, or facts, alluded to in the said vote remaining unknown, and the term defaulter, made use of therein, every one has been left at liberty to adopt whatever his imagination might suggest, and, in consequence, many strange and injurious falsehoods have been invented and spread abroad concerning your remonstrant. Among other stories it has been said, that your memorialist has traded on public moneys, and that he has made very large purchases of lands and other real estates, and these stories are supposed to have taken
Page 201
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 201 their rise with some member, or members, of this honorable house, whereby they may have gained a more ready belief, and greatly tend to prejudice the minds of his fellow citizens against your remonstrant, and may possibly even affect the questions of right to be determined respecting his claims. It is therefore his duty to declare, that altho' he believes when his accounts as Secretary are justly and equitably settled, there will be found a considerable ballance due to him, and that he had a right to have traded had he thought it advantageous to him so to do, yet, he has not during his continuance in office, been concerned in the exportation or importa- tion, purchase or sale of merchandize of any kind, directly or in- directly, other than such articles as were intended for the sole use of his own family. And he declares, that he has not purchased and paid for during that time or since, any of the confiscated estates, or city lotts sold by authority of the state, or any other real estate whatever to the amount of five pounds—And he calls on all the world to witness against, him if these declarations are not strictly true. In the message from the President & Council of the 21st of March, aecompanied with the Comptroller Generals report on the Secretary's accounts, they “presume the question of right may be “determined in the manner proposed by the Secretary, which “appears to us, (say they,) to be reasonable.” The Committee of the house speak in general terms of charges contained in the Secretary's accounts, which the Comptroller General “declares” (as they say) to be altogether inadmissible and give their opinion, that “the most eligible mode of bringing this business to a final “settlement, is for the Comptroller General to prosecute the said “Timothy Matlack, Esq’r, in the Supreme Court in order to try “the contested points by a jury;” but, there is not in any of the proceedings which have been made public an account of what those questions of right are. These questions if your remonstrant is rightly informed are three. First, upon a claim set up by the Comptroller General, in behalf of the state, to stain fees received by the Secretary, which the Comptroller General, is pleased to say “are not granted him by law, such as the fees of the keeper of the Great seal, &c., &c. The ground on which this claim on the part of the state is set up, your remonstrant is altogether a stranger to: He has performed the duties and he conceives is entitled to the fees declared by law to be a reasonable and adequate compensation for the service. Secondly, whether the state, or the parties are to pay for militia commissions. On this your remonstrant observes, that the rule in other like cases is, that where the office is lucrative the party pays for the commission, but where it is not lucrative it is charged to the public: Thus a Sheriff pays for his commission; but that of a Coroner may be charged to the county. Hence your remonstrant inferred, that a Commission to a militia officer ought not to be charged to the party. If he is
Page 202
202 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. mistaken in this inference, it is an error which operates in favour of the best friends of the revolution; whereas the contrary must operate against them. He conceives this question, in other words, to be, Whether or not the Whigs should at once perform the great, important & hazardous duties of militia during the war, and pray for the authority derived from the state to perform those duties; while those of a contrary character remain exempt from the personal service & at the same time avoid their part of the expence? Upon this question let a whig jury determine. And, thirdly, the question relates only to the time when the Secretary is bound to give up his former salary and his fees, and receive in lieu thereof the salary lately fixed. This question, to a certain time has been decided, by the Attorney General and the General Assembly, that the Secretary may take either the former or latter at his own choice, and the question at present relates to a few months only. Should your remonstrant think it proper to give up this point, in order to gain a more speedy decision on the other point, the good people of the state, when these accounts are settled will be enabled to judge, how far they are indebted to the Comptroller General for raising the question, by the sum which the state will have gained by it. If there is any other question on those accounts it is unknown to your remonstrant. - However reasonable and legally your remonstrant might have refused to submit to a trial of those questions of right, ordered in such terms in so unusual a manner he, for the sake of “a speedy & public trial,” waved every objection thereto, and urged in the most earnest manner, and by every means in his power, to obtain a decision at the last Supream Court, and shall earnestly pray for it during the present sitting of that Court; but he being informed that this honorable house are about to close their Session, he conceives it to be his duty now to present this memorial & remon- strance, and, as it is not in the power of the house to do him that justice and afford him that redress to which he is justly entitled, he only prays that the same may be entered on the Journals of the house in order that he may hereafter make such further appeal as the nature of his case may appear to require. JAMES WILSON AND WM. BRADFORD To Assembly, 1784. Philadelphia, Feby 4, 1784. Sir The Counsel retained to conduct the cause between the Common. wealth and Timothy Matlack, Esq., amicably entered in the Supreme Court agreeably to the Resolution of the Honorable the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, beg leave to report, That they find it # There is neither date nor signature to the foregoing paper in T. M’s handwriting, though it allu les to transactions on p. 762 of Vol. IX., &c.
Page 203
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 203 impossible to carry the said Resolution into effect so as to do Justice to the Commonwealth. The Justices of the Supreme Court very properly require that the Issue to be tried before them be formally joined and so framed that Judgment may be given on the verdict of the Jury. To effect this a Declaration and an Issueable plea became necessary. By the written paper which we have the Honor to inclose it will appear that it was mutually understood that the declaration should contain a general count for monies had and received by the Defendant to the use of Commonwealth and that Issue should be joined thereon; under which the controverted points should be determined and the balance ascertained. We are sorry to add that the Defendant now refuses to join issue or to enter any plea unless we reduce the sum contained in the Declaration, which is not greater than what appears to have been received by the Defendant as Secretary of the Council & for which it has been conceived he ought to account. As we are thus prevented from proceeding in the Line proposed we have no expectation that the Resolution of your Honorable House can be carried into effectual execution. And we are of opinion that the balance of the Defendants accounts can only be adjusted by the Comptroller General's proceeding to the Execution of the powers west d in him or by an adversary suit being commenced against Mº Matlack for the sum supposed to be due. We wait the advice and instruction of the Honorable House on this subject & have the Honor to be Sir, Your most obedient, & very Humble servant, JAMES WILSON, - WM. BRADFORD, Jr. Directed, The Honorable George Gray, Esq., Speaker, &c., Philadelphia. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly. Saturday, February 7, 1784, A. M. The report of the committee read February 3, on the petition of - Richard Wallace, Esquire, was read the second time, whereupon Resolved, That the president or vice-president in Council, be empowered to draw on the naval officer of this state for the sum of four hundred and nineteen pounds eleven shillings ten pence half- penny specie, in favor of Richard Wallace, Esquire, out of the monies
Page 204
204 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. remaining in the hands of the said naval officer, any thing in the resolutions of the twenty-second day of September last to the con- trary notwithstanding. - Extract from the Minutes, - J. SHALLUS, Ass Clerk, of the General Assembly.* RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly. Monday, February 16, 1784, A. M. Resolved, That one hundred and fifty pounds be granted to the Philosophical society, for the purpose of encouraging agriculture and commerce, by enabling that learned body to obtain such discoveries as have been made in Europe and other countries. Extract from the Minutes, / PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly.f PRES. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CoNGRESS, 1784. In Council, February 16th, 1784. Gentlemen, We have received your several communications of & , and have a just sense of your attention to the trust reposed in you. Inclosed are some Resolves of the General Assembly of 14thi of this Month. The attempts of Connecticut are very extraordinary, and are to be opposed with the most persevering vigilance. We wish you by all means to prevent any step being taken by Congress, that may in the smallest degree lead towards a revision of the cause determined by the Court at Trenton. That business is complicated with such a variety of consideration & circumstances, arising from a Multiplicity of sources, that it is incapable of being properly managed, without diligent & long continued study & application to it. Mr. Wilson by his professional knowledge & laborious preparation for the late trial between this state & Connecticut, has acquired a thorough acquaintance with the whole transactions preceding your appointment. To you, gentlemen, the subsequent are well known. He is now nominated a delegate, & will join you as soon as pos- sible. With the mutual information & assistance which you will give each other, we do not question, but the designs of our opponents will be properly encountered. * See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV., p. 32, 33. # See Col. Rec., XIV., p. 51. † Not found. See pages 194, 196.
End of Section 69. Continue to next section or 
Section 70
Page 205
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 205 We shall be obliged to you if you will by an early opportunity send us a copy of any Remonstrance, address, or petition of Zebulon Butler & his associate to Congress. I am sirs, - Your most Obed. Servant, - JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Honorable the Delegates of Pennsylvania.” PRES. DICKINSON To Gov. CLINTON, 1784. Si In Council, February 16th, 1784. 1r, This Letter will be delivered to your Excellency by the Honora- ble Mr. Wilson, one of our Delegates and agent in the Controversy for the Territory of which the Jurisdiction & Preemption were in December, 1782, adjudged unanimously by the Court at Trenton to be the Right of this Commonwealth. We flattered ourselves, that so truely respectable a Determination would have put an end to all Contests, & that the affair would have given us no further Trouble than to settle private Claims of soil upon equitable Terms, which this State was resolved to do. But with Regret we find that the Dispute is reviving in a Variety of forms; and it becomes our Duty to be prepared in the best manner we can, for opposing attempts that threaten the Honor, the Peace & the wellfare of Pennsylvania. - We therefore beg leave to request & shall with just acknowledge- ments receive any assistance which your State can afford to Mr. Wilson by access to your Records & other Sources of Information. Another point of Importance is suggested to us by a Considera- tion of our mutual Interest; and we shall freely mention it, be- cause we repose a very high and particular Confidence in the Rectitude, Prudence & Liberality of the Councils, by which the Conduct of our Sister State of New York will be governed. It is to be apprehended that if a spirit of Jealousy is suffered to arise between the two States, their Measures may be reciprocally injurious. Our Judgement & Inclination point out to us a system totally different. It is our earnest wish, and shall be our diligent Endeavours that they may ever cordially harmonize in their Com- mercial Regulations. with real and very great esteem, I have the Honor to be, your Excellency's most obedient & Hble. Servt. JOHN DICKINSON.f Directed,—Philadelphia, February 16th, 1784. His Excellency George Clinton, Esquire, Governor of the State of New York. * Col. Rec., Wol. XIV, p. 36. # Ib. *
Page 206
206 PENNYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. MINUTE OF GENERAL Assembly, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly Thursday February 19, 1784, A. M. Agreeably to the order of the day the House proceeded to the election of auctioneers for the city of Philadelphia, the Northern Liberties and the district of Southwark, when the ballots being taken it appeared that Arthur St Clair Esquire, was duly elected Auctioneer for the city of Philadelphia, Alexander Boyd for the Northern Liberties and John Mease for the district of Sonthwark. Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk of the General Assembly.* PREs. OF CoNGRESS To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Sir, I think it a duty I owe to the office I am honored with, as well as to the Union, to inform your Excellency and thro' you the State over which you preside; that the great business of the United States is at a stand, for want of a Representation agreeable to the Articles of Confederation. The Journal transmitted by the Secre- tary to your Excellency and which contains the proceedings of Congress, and an account of the States and members present from the first monday of November last to this day, will convince your Excellency of the State of inactivity to which the affairs of the United States are reduced for want of a full Representation. At this moment, there are many matters of the highest impor- tance to the safety, honour and happiness of the United States which require immediate attention. Among these I need only mention the establishing a general peace with the Indians, and settling the western territory, the arranging our foreign affairs and taking measures for securing our frontiers, preserving our stores and magazines; making requisitions for the expences of the current year and for satisfying the public Creditors. I have only to add, that by the sickness of some of the members attending at Annapolis, we have had seven States represented in Congress only three days since the Sixth Inst., as your Excellency will observe by the enclosed certificate of the Secretary and that the members present are dissatisfied with attending to no purpose, and are very impatient under their situation. I am with the greatest Respect, your Excellency's most Obedient & humble Servant. THOMAS MIFFLIN. Annapolis, 20th February, 1784. * Col. Rec., Vol. XIV. p. 38, and 210 of this Vol.
Page 207
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 207 States not representated. New Hampshire, One Delegate present. New York. New Jersey, One Delegate present. Delaware, One Delegate present. Maryland, One Delegate attend'g, one sick. No. Carolina, One Delegate attend'g, one sick. Georgia, A Letter similar to the above was written to the Executives of the States not represented. - T. M. Saturday February 7th, only five States attended. Monday February 9th, only six. Tuesday & Wednesday 10th, and 11th seven States attended. Thursday February 12, only five States attended. Friday February 13th, seven States attended, Monday Feby 16th, only five. Tuesday Feby. 17th, Wednesday Feby, 18th, Thursday Feby. 19th, Only six States, atttended. Friday Feby. 20th, - Saturday Feby. 21st, The States unrepresented, are New Hampshire, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland, North Carolina and Georgia. 21 Feby. 1784. CHA. THOMSON.” Indorsed—Recd. 26 Feby. 1784. Directed, His Excellency, President Dickinson, Philadelphia. T. Mifflin. PREs. Dickinson to Major JAMEs MooRE, 1784. In Council, February 21", 1784. Sir, Having conferred with Alexander Patterson & David Meade, Esquires & Captain Armstrong, concerning the Behaviour of the Settlers at Wioming not claiming under this State. We think it proper to observe, that a very vigilant attention must be had to the Conduct of that People, and every Measure taken to guard against any hostile Enterprizes. At the same time, it is the Intention & Desire of Government * Col, Rec. Wol., XIV. p. 48.
Page 208
208 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. that if they behave peaceably & inoffensively, they are to be in all Respects treated kindly, as persons whom we wish to become affec- tionate & faithful Citizens of this Commonwealth. I am Sir, with great & sincere Esteem, your most obed. hble Servt., JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, Major James Moore, at Wioming. PREs. DICKINSON TO ALEXANDER PATTERSON, &c., 1784. In Council, February 21", 1784. Gentlemen, Having conferred with two of you concerning the Behaviour of the Settlers at Wioming not claiming under this State, We judge it proper to observe, that as it is the Duty of persons in such offices as you hold, to render justice to all persons without Distinction as far as your Authority extends, and to preserve the Peace, the peculiar Situation of affairs in your neighborhood requires a particular atten- tion to the Conduct of those who are disaffected to Pennsylvania, and that the earliest Intelligence should be communicated to us of any proceeding that threatens Injury to the Commonwealth. But, if the said Settlers behave peaceably and inoffensively, it is the Intention & Desire of Government, that they should be in all Respects treated with kindness, as persons whom we wish to become affectionate and faithful Citizens of Pennsylvania. I am with great Regard, gentlemen, - your most obed hble Serv", JOHN DICKINSON. Directed,—Alexander Patterson, David Meade, John Seely & Henry Shoemaker, Esquires. CHAs. PETTIT TO PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Si Philadelphia, 23 February, 1784. 1r - #y the Desire of the Committee of Merchants of Philadelphia, I take the Liberty of inclosing to your Excellency their Memorial” of the 21* Instant. I have the Honor to be, very respectfully, Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servant, CHA. PETTIT.f Directed, His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania. * Memorial not found. See page 210. f See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 39.
End of Section 70. Continue to next section or 
Section 71
Page 209
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 209 CoL. JAMES CHRYSTIE TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Phila., Feb. 23, 1784. Sir, I am ordered by Major Moore Command'g at Fort Dickinson to apply to the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council for some money on account, for the discharge of debts necessarily contracted for the use of the Fort.* For the laying in of one hundred Cords of Wood—for the payment of intrenching Tools & haulin necessary for the repairing of the works. One hundred pounds will answer for the present. - I have the honour to be Sir, your Excellency's most obedient Servant, JA : CHRYSTIE. Directed, - His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President of Pennsylvania. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLX, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly. Tuesday, February 24, 1784. A. M. The house having agreed to reconsider their minute of the nine- teentht day of this instant February, relative to the appointment of Auctioneers, It was moved and seconded to add the following resolution, viz: Resolved, That the said Arthur St Clair, Alexander Boyd, and John Mease, be and they are hereby severally appointed Auction- eers, viz: Arthur S Clair for the City of Philadelphia, Alexander Boyd for the Northern Liberties and John Mease for the district of Southwark. Whereupon the Yeas and Nays were called by M. Whitehill and Mr Clymer, and are as follows, viz: - - Yeas 29. Nays 28. So it was carried in the affirmative and the resolution adopted. Extract from the Minutes, PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 41. (At Wyoming.) f See page 200. f Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 38, 42. .*
End of Section 71. Continue to next section or 
Section 72
Page 210
210 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. PRES. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1784. In Council, Feb. 24*, 1784. Gentlemen, * - We inclose a Resolution of the General Assembly, by which the good Faith, Humanity & Generosity of that Honorable Body appear in a very clear Light. We are informed, that some of the persons therein provided for & who have relinquished all Right whatever under Connecticut, signed the Address to Congress for a Court to try the private Right of soil. I am gent'n, y; most Ob. Ser., JOHN DICKINSON. P. S. We shall be obliged to you, if you will be so good as to send us the Journals of Congress for 1779, 1780, 1781, 1782, & 1783. Directed, - The Honorable The Delegates in Congress. PREs, DICKINSoN To CoMMITTEE of MERCHANTs, 1784. In Council, February 24", 1784. Gentlemen, We have this Day received your Memorial of the 21" Instant;* and it is with great Satisfaction we can assure you, that the Interest of so respectable a Part of our Constituents as the Merchants of Philadelphia, with which those of the whole State are so intimately combined, engaged our early & diligent attention. ... At the first Session of the General Assembly after intelligence of the provisional articles of Peace, we represented to that Honorable Body the propriety of clearing the Passage of the River by removing the Chevaux de Frize, and informed them, that we had directed pro- posals to be received. They approved the Measure, & in Consequence of their acts we have made some preparations which have been con- ducted by the Wardens of the Port, for effecting the Business. - We are perfectly sensible of the Importance & Difficulty of this undertaking. No proposals that have been made, are satisfactory. We wish to accomplish the work as soon as we can, and to be so well advised in our attempts, as not to put the State to an improper Expence. We shall therefore be exceedingly obliged to the Mer- chants of this City, if they will be pleased to mention to us the further preparations which they judge to be necessary, to recommend * See page 208, and answer, 212.
Page 211
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 211 persons for making the proper Experiments, & to favour us with their Sentiments as to the Measures for the further Improvement of the Navigation of the Broad Bay. With real & great Esteem I have the Honor to be, gentlemen, your most obedient hble Serv", JOHN DICKINSON. Directed,—The Committee of The Merchants of Philadelphia. Sec'y ARMSTRONG. To MICHAEL HUFFNAGLE, 1784. Secretary's Office, Feb'y 27th, 1784. Sir, The return of an election for Justices of the peace, held at Pitts- burgh on the 13th day of August last, was this morning reconsidered in Council, & upon a review of the whole it was determined that another Election for an additional magistrate be held at that place as soon as possible. It is the wish of Council that you will be pleased to make the laws concerning Elections as public as you can —this may best be done by issuing a written notice appointing the day for such Election, & describing the qualifications necessary for the Voter, as well as the person voted for. This precaution will pre- vent much of the inconsistency which has hitherto marked this busi- ness, & enable Council to come to some safe decision. I am Sir, with much respect, your most obed servant, J. ARMSTRONG, Sec'y. Directed, - Michael Huffnagle, Esqr., Prothonotary of County of Westmore- land. - - Sec'y ARMSTRONG TO HENRY WYNKoop, 1784. Surveyor's Office, 5th March, 1784. Sir, - I have the directions of Council to inform you that there is no provision by Law for the purpose of filling up those vacancies in the magistracy, which have happened in consequence of the constitu- tional expiration of said office; application has been made to the House upon this subject, and some provisionary law, it is to be sup- osed, will be made, when some future return from the County of ucks will be taken up and acted upon. I am Sir, with the greatest respect, your most obedient humble servant, JOHN ARMSTRONG, jr., Sec'y. Directed—Henry Wynkoop, Esq., Bucks County.
Page 212
212 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. MERCHANTS OF PHILADELPHIA To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Philadelphia, March 6, 1784. Sir, We have had the Honor to receive the Communication of Council on the Subject of our Memorial of the 21st of February,” and are happy to find it had so early engaged their particular Attention. The Removal of the obstructions in the River is indeed an Object of great Importance to the Trade of this Port; for exclusive of fre- quent and heavy Losses by accidents which they occasion, the Delay they give to Wessels in their passage to and from the City, is in itself a heavy Tax on Navigable Concerns. We presume not, how- ever, to offer any Plan for their Removal, nor any Opinion respecting the mode to be pursued in effecting the Business. Our view in addressing Council was merely to present the Subject to their Con- sideration as an object requiring early preparation no less than vigorous Exertion. But if Council shall deem our Assistance in any Degree necessary, we shall consider it as our Duty to give all the aid in our Power with the utmost alacrity. From the precarious Circumstances of Trade during the War, and the alterations which have taken Place in our Police in Consequence of the Revolution, many useful Regulations heretofore established have fallen into disuse, or are become inadequate to our present Situation, whereby the Commerce of the State has suffered & is likely to suffer much Inconvenience & real Injury. These Circum- stances were suggested, amongst others, in a memorial we had the Honor to present to the General Assembly early in the present Session. How far they may have engaged the Attention of the honorable House, we are not yet informed. But under the Laws now subsisting we apprehend it may be in the Power of the Council to remedy these Inconveniencies in some Particulars; such as the Inspection of Beef & Pork & of Staves and other Lumber, & the measurement of Salt & Grain. As these are Objects of considerable Importance, we cannot but hope they will obtain the favourable Attention of your hon* Board, & that the best Regulations & arrangements which the existing Laws admit will be made concern- ing them. We have the Honor to be, with great Respect your Excellency's most Obedient & most humble Servants, CHA, PETTIT, J. M. NESBITT, JOHN NIXON, - ISAAC HAZLEHURST, J. ROSS, CLEMENT BIDDLE. Directed, - His Excellency, the President of the Supreme Executive Council. * See page 208, 210.
End of Section 72. Continue to next section or 
Section 73
Page 213
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 213 EzEKIEL ROBINs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. New York, March 6th, 1784. Sir Ågreeable to advice have transmitted you an account of Sundries Supply” the American Prisoners, with an account of Sales of the Flour which was sent for that purpose—have Inclosed an Order on the Honb'l James Irvine, which after settlement leaves a ballance due me of £8 13 11—N. York Currency. Am with Respect, Sir, your Humble Servant, EZEKIEL ROBINS. Directed, Publick.) is Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President of the State of Pensilvania. PREs. DICKINSON To Gov. OF CONNECTICUT, 1784. In Council, Philadelphia, March 6*, 1784. Sir, We have received your Excellency's Letters of the 15th of last November,” with three Acts of your Legislature of the second Thurs- day of October preceding,f which we laid before our General Assem- bly; and now, in Compliance with their Resolution, transmit Copies of proceedings respecting the Letters at Wioming. These, together with this Letter, we desire your Excellency will be pleased to com- municate to the Legislature of the State of Connecticut, as soon as an Opportunity is offered. This Step of our Assembly proceeds from a Hope that your Government, upon being well informed of the said proceedings, will not persist in a Conduct so extraordinary as that lately adopted. Whether this Hope be well founded or not, we shall enjoy the Satisfaction of having affectionately endeavoured to remove the prejudices of a sister State, & to prevent the Evils that must result from such a Revival of the late Controversy. The Acts above referred to, and your Excellency’s Letter, contain two Charges against this State; first, of Suppression of Evidence, & secondly, of Cruelty towards the Settlers of Wioming—in Conse- quence whereof, it seems, your Government resolved to obtain if it be practicable, a Revision of the Cause lately decided, & to give the Settlers all the Aid and support in its power.” However severe these Charges are, they meet on our part with a Consciousness that they are not merited. As to the former, it is so indefinite that we cannot imagine to what Evidence it alludes. As * See pp. 147, 148. # See pp.116, 117. Vol. X. —10
Page 214
214 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. to the latter, the inclosed Papers & some corresponding Circum- stances will evince how much it was undeserved It has been the constant Determination of this Government to treat with Benevolence & Generosity the Settlers at Wioming, whose Cases were recommended by equitable Considerations; and we are persuaded that all who are described in the Resolutions of the second of last September, would have had their Possessions immediately confirmed to them, if it could be done without a Violation of the Rights of Property in a Multitude of Instances, those Lands having been heretofore granted by Pennsylvania to many Individuals who insisted on their Titles, and pleaded the sanction of Laws. This Difficulty opposed itself to the kind Intentions of Govern- ment. In order to remove it, Commissioners who were Members of the Legislature, were appointed to repair to Wioming. Their Report is at present mislaid; but it's place is well supplied. Proposals of Accommodation were made, but not concluded. Several Papers were addrest to the Commissioners by the Claimants on each side. That from the settlers at Wioming, dated 23 April,” 1783, and signed on Behalf of the rest by John Jenkins, put an End to all further Expectation of Compromises, & the Commissioners soon after returned Home. In this Address, they answer what had been mentioned, of other Lands being granted to them by this State, if they would sur- render after some time the Lands at Wioming to the owners under. Pennsylvania, by asking these Questions: “Whether they would exchange & suffer us to enjoy our peaceable possessions here by way of Compromise,” and then subjoin this Declaration—“We cannot, as we are Joint tenants with a much greater Body of Joint Proprie- tors than is here, without their joint Consent, give up our Claims to those Lands in Dispute.” Upon the Report of the Commissioners, our General Assembly formed their Resolutions of the second of September; and tho’ their “Hopes of a friendly Compromise seemed then vanished,” yet, still influenced by the same Equity that suggested the appointment of the Commissioners, & to encourage the Settlers to assent to Terms compatible with the legal Claim under Pennsylvania which had occasioned the before-mentioned Difficulty, they resolved, that “a reasonable Compensation in Lands within the Boundaries of this State, upon easy Terms, be made to the Families of those who have fallen fighting against the Savages, & to such others as actually did reside on the Lands at Wioming when the late Decree was given at Trenton.” The Good Faith & Liberality with which the present Assembly have adhered to this Engagement, will appear from the Resolutions of the 30th of last month, by which three hundred Acres of Land are granted clear of purchase Money, to each of the fifteen Settlers therein mentioned. * See pp. 30–36.
Page 215
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 215 Hence it is indisputable, that the “Settlers” described in the Acts of the Legislature of Connecticut of last October, and the Families of the “Males who had been slain,” were really the objects of the “Clemency” of Pennsylvania before the passing of those Acts. It is also evident from the recited Declaration of “the Settlers” at Wioming, that they are contending for other Claims than their own. Such Ideas have been successfully infused into their Minds, that their Contest extends to the Claims of “a much greater Body of Joint proprietors than is there.” Thus, by their own Acknowledgement, the Question does not relate to the persons expressly designated by your Legislature in these & several other words—“whose sufferings & Condition under “Penn- sylvania” have excited the Commiseration of their Friends,” but to the Claims that may be made by that “much greater Body of Joint proprietors.” - To make an equitable Accommodation with the former is the earnest Desire & sincere Endeavour of this State; but, to surrender a valuable & important Territory to Claims inconsistent with Equity, she cannot consent. * It is too plain what the Consequences will be, when a considerable Body of Men who have fixed themselves in a State in Defiance of her Authority, making common Cause with “a much greater Body” residing in another State, tempting bold & needy Adventurers from every Quarter to join them, which we averr to be their practice, and meditating hostile Enterprizes against us, which we know to be their Design, are taught to expect from that other State (and a very respectable one) “all the aid and support in her power,” see her making every Exertion to acquire for them the Jurisdiction over the Lands where they have fixed themselves. We ardently wish that the Citizens of a State united to us by so many strong Ties, would be pleased to afford some further Consid- eration to the Arguments of the Advocates for these Measures, and with a serious and consciencious Attention to weigh how far such proceedings are reconcileable with the Maxims of Reason and Justice, the Laws of Nature and Nations, the true interests of the State, the uniform and solemn declarations of their own Ancestors repeated in their legislative and executive Acts of Government from Generation to Generation, without a dissenting Voice, the unanimous Determi- nation of the most dignified Judges chosen by themselves, upon a Trial long prepared for and deliberately entered into, or, in brief, with the Principles upon which the Peace and Repose of Mankind are established. Upon the late Decision, the Authority of this Commonwealth was confirmed; and the Laws in their usual Course, if appealed to, could punish, by redress, private wrong. Yet, our General Assembly, upon Complaints of the settlers, again sent up Commissioners, from their own body, to Wioming, to make proper Enquiries upon the spot; and we have given such Instructions to those in authority there, as
Page 216
216 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. we judge sufficient to prevent any pretence for a Repetition of Com- laints. - p If any violent actions have been committed by Individuals, they have proceeded from minds alarmed by apprehension of imminent Danger, or irritated by severe Injuries. We mean not to recriminate, but only to recall some past events into Remembrance; For, we are assured that the Citizens of your state will not impute any peculiar want of “mercy,” to the People of this; when they reflect that the Emigrants from Connecticut seized by violence the Lands, which are now claimed, at a time too, when Pennsylvania was actually invaded by a formidable Enemy, “entered by Force into the Possessions & Labors” of Pennsylvanians, plundered them of all their property, & drove them out of that part of the Country —and when they reflect, also—that at the Commencement of those Disturbances, the Government of Pennsylvania in the most friendly and strenuous manner, cautioned Connecticut, by sending an Agent of Distinction and an official Letter, against countenancing the at- tempt as leading, to use the words of the Letter, into an endless scene of Trouble and Confusion,” that might be very generally “prejudicial.” To conclude, let the whole series of transactions, relating to the Intrusion upon these Lands, be impartially considered, and we are perfectly convinced the People of this State will be regarded as much more trespassed against than trespassing. We shall not uselessly engage in the detail, nor in any Dispute upon the subject. Our sincere wishes are, that this unhappy affair may be closed in such a way as to cause as little Distress as possible to Individuals, and as little Detriment as possible to our Common Country. With a truly great Esteem, I have the Honor to be, Sir, - Your Excellencys most obedient hble. serve., JOHN DICKINSON. His Excellency the Governor of Connecticut. Hon. John Montgomery To PREs. DICKINson, 1783. Sir, Annapolis, 7th March, 1784. I have now before me your letter of with the instructions of General Assembly to the Delegates, though I make no Doubt but the letter which his Excellency Mr Mifflin has, as he just now informed me, written and forward" by Cap Barney, will give satisfaction, yet the respect I have for the Council and General Assembly and the trust reposed in me will not admitt of my being silent. I must
Page 217
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 217 therefore beg leave to inform you, that the assignment of the last Monday in June next for the appearance of the parties is not to Consider whether a Court shall be appointed or not, but for the actual appointment of a Court to hear and Determine the private right of soil between those claiming by grants under different states in that tract of territory which was heretofore in Controversy between Pennsyl- and Connecticut and the jurisdiction of which was by the Court held at Trenton adjudged to belong to Pennsyl-. I was not in Congress when the petition of Butler and others & the letter from the Governor of Connecticut were first read, nor did I arrive untill the Committee to whom they had been referred had made report and Congress was ready to come to a decision. Upon first hearing the business I did not like it and was disposed to give it all the oposition in my power especially as I perceived by a part of Governor Trumbull’s letter that the State of Connecticut was not satisfied with the Judgement given and there was some expressions which seemed to intimate that they wanted it set aside and a new trial granted. But as the Delegates of that State disavowed such intention and moved for expunging that part of the report which referred to the exceptionable part of the letter and only insisted on the right of the petitioners, and as that right was founded on the articles of confederation, I acquiesced and left my collegues who had heard the matter from the beginning to give the vote of the state, I was the easier induced to observe this Conduct as upon examining more attentively the articles of Confederation I was perswaded that the granting the prayer of the petitioners and ordering the appointment of this Court was a confirmation of the Judgment of the court at Trenton which decided the jurisdiction, for it appeard to me that the court to decide upon the private right of soil cou" not to be apointed nor have any right to sit or act unless it was taken for granted that the jurisdiction was previously and finally adjudged and Determined. I am sensible the appointment of this court may be attended with inconveniences. But as it is founded on the articles of confederation and a constitutional law of the United States, they ought to be sub- mitted to and I apprehend it would be very dangerous to liberty if those who have only the power of appointing a court shou" govern an arbitrary right of Judgeing whether the suitors were intitled to the benefit of the Court. This in my opinion only belongs to the court and I am persuaded the Council employed by the claimants under Pennsylvania will take care that none but such as have a clear right to be admitted to the benefit of the Court in question. I am glad to hear Mº Wilson is appointed a Delegate and that he means to serve. There are many matters now coming before Congress which are of the greatest importance to the whole union as well as to every individual state. I therefore sincerely wish if he is not already set out on his journey that he would hasten here as soon as possible and I am the more desirous of this as I should be glad of his advice
Page 218
218 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. before we take any step conformable to the instruction given and to have his assistance if the Assembly shall continue to think such steps necessary. Be pleased to asure the Council and assembly of my most zealous services and closest attention to the interest of the state to the utmost of my abilities. I am with great respect your Excellencys obd humble Servant. JOHN MONTGOMERY. Dr. HUTCHINSON TO GEN. IRWIN, 1784. Doctor Hutchinsons compliments to Gen. Irwin and acquaints him that the Bearers of this Leonard Broom, Jonathan Trieckel, Willian Nichols & Daniel Cross, are four % those unhappy men who were burnt so very severely, when the accident happened at the fire works in Market street; Dr Hutchinson applyed to Gen. Irwin at the time, & Council were kind enough to engage to pay their expences in the Pennsylvania Hospital, in consequence of which D* Hutchinson got one of the men who is not mentioned above admitted, but these four rather choose to remain in their own lodgings, they are now well but much distressed, all their cloaths were burnt, and they have been at expences ever since the accident. I apprehend that their remaining out of the Hospital can make no difference to Council, and that the same allowanee might be made to them to enable them to pay for their board, as is made to pay for the person who is in the Hospital; Gen. Irwin however will himself be better able to judge on the occa- sion and if he thinks it can be done with propriety represent the matter to Council. Monday Morning, March 8", 1784. Directed, To Gen. Irwin. RETURN OF OFFICERS OF THE TROOP OF LIGHT HORSE OF THE County OF PHILADELPHIA. A Return of the officers of the Troop of Light Horse of the County of Philad". David Snyder, Captain. Abraham Duffield, Lieutenant. Isaac Humphries, Cornet. Philade County, March 9" 1784. - Wm. COATS, Lieu' C. P. Directed, - John Armstrong, Esq.", Secretary.
End of Section 73. Continue to next section or 
Section 74
Page 219
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. RETURN of OFFICERS FIRST BATTALION, PHILADELPHIA. A Return of the Officers of the first Battalion of the Phila County militia, commanded by Benj" M*Weagh, Esq. FIRST CoMPANY. Demas Worrell, Captain. Robert Wilson, Lieutenant. Peacock Major, Ensign. SECOND CoMPANY. Thomas Holmes, Captain. Jonathan Dungan, Lieutenant. Enoch Holmes, Ensign. THIRD CoMPANY. Samuel Swift, Captain. John Blake, Lieutenant, Robert Robertson, Ensign. FourTH CoMPANY. Joseph Dearman, Captain. FIFTH CoMPANY. Jacob Roads, Captain. Casper Roads, Lieutenant. Serick Strickler, Ensign. SIXTH CoMPANY. James Potts, Captain. John Knowles, Lieutenant. David Derrickson, Ensign. SEVENTH CoMPANY. Stephen Burrows, Captain. Henry Young, Lieutenant. John Davis, Ensign. EIGHTH CoMPANY. John Rush, Captain. Jacob Ashton, Lieutenant. Christopher Coon, Lieutenant. Jacob Shearer, Ensign. Frederick Altemus, Ensign. Philade County, March 9th, 1784. W= COATS, Lieut C. P. "Directed, John Armstrong, Esq., Secretary to the Supreme Executive Councill of the State of Pennsylvania. PRESIDENT DICKINSON TO MERCHANTS OF PHILADA., 1784. Gentlemen, - The offices we hold are bestowed upon us for the public service, & in order to fulfil the obligations of such a trust we esteem it our indispensable Duty to obtain all the Information that may be useful to the State. We therefore wish to avail ourselves of the Knowledge and Experience of your Body, not only with Respect to the Removal of the Chevaux de Frize, but for the further Improvement of the Navi- gation of the River & Bay, and in general for the promotion of the Commercial Interests of the Commonwealth, as far as our Exertions can contribute to the attainment of those very desirable objects. On the first subject we hope to be soon favoured with your sentiments, & upon the last as you may from time to time think proper.
Page 220
220 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. The substance of the Memorial to the General Assembly which you have been pleased to mention, appeared to Us as important as to You; and not knowing of...your intended application to the House, we, in our Message, at the Beginning of the present Session, strongly urged “the Necessity of a due Order and accurate Method being observed in preparing all our products in the best Manner for Expor- tation.” By a former message on the eighteenth of last August, we repre- sented to the Legislature that “no proper provision was made for the measuring of Grain & Salt.” We also established a temporary Regulation concerning those articles. - Any advantages which the Laws admit upon these points, we shall be very ready to make, and should be glad to know what the course of Business suggests to your observation as most advisable. Q. Who are the Officers for inspecting Beef & Pork, Flower & Staves, &c. With a very great & sincere Esteem, I am, Gentlemen, Your most obedient, And most humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON.” The Merchants of Philadelphia. Indorsed March 13, 1784. HoN. John MonTGOMERY TO PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Annapolis, 15th March, 1784. Sir, I have the honor to send your Excellency the Journals of Congress for 1780 and 1781, and an order on Mr. Claypole for those of 1779 and 1782, which includes part of '83. Only eight states represented in Congress; the Delegates of the Delaware State are Disqualified to serve, having been appointed 1st Feb'y, 1783, the year ending 1st Feb'y, 1784, and no appointment made in that State since. Mr. Beresford's time is up this day, and no acct. from South Carolina of a new appointment, so that we are prevented from proceeding on the important and pressing Business now before Congress. - f am, with great respect, Your Excellency's most obd’t, Humble Servant, JOHN MONTGOMERY. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, Pros’t of the Sup. Ex- Council at Philadelphia. * See pages 208,210, 212, 221.
End of Section 74. Continue to next section or 
Section 75
Page 221
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 221 MERCHANTS OF PHILADELPHIA To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Philadelphia, 19 March, 1784. Sir, - The attention with which Council have been pleased to honor our application, demands our acknowledgments, and we should be wanting in the Respect we owe to the Executive Power of the State, and to the Duties of our appointment, if we should withhold any informa- tion which they may think proper to ask, and which we are compe- tent to give. The Removal of the Chevaux de frize is, in our Estimation, an Object of the first importance to the Navigation of the State, A. ought, at all Events, to be attempted as soon as the Season will permit. We presume that in this, as in all public Undertakings, if persons of Ability would engage to perform the Service by Contract, for a specific Sum, that mode would be the most eligible; but if such Persons cannot be found, we would recommend that the Busi- ness be put under the Direction of the Wardens of the Port, with Instructions to employ the best means in their Power for accom- plishing so necessary an End. The message of Council at the opening of the present Session com- prehended many of the objects which we wished to bring before our Representatives; and our memorial, it was imagined, would furnish additional Motives for taking them into immediate Consideration. It is to be lamented that neither the one nor the other has had the desired Effect; and that new Impositions on Trade shbuld be adopted without any Reference to the Parties who are to be imme- diately affected by them, & without the smallest Attention to the Improvement of that Commerce upon which those Impositions are laid. We have thought it our Duty by another Memorial, to solicit the Attention of the General Assembly to this Business, & we still flatter ourselves our applications may be regarded. If the Prayer of our Petitions should be granted, the Superin- tendance of many of the Regulations will necessarily be in the Council. Should that happen & our Experience can be useful, every information in our power will be cheerfully given. In the mean time the officers who superintend the measurement of Salt & Grain, & the Inspection of Beef & Pork, being of their appointment, it may be in their power to put those Duties into the hands of Persons who will execute them with Reputation to the State. We have the Honor to be With perfect Respect, Your Excellencies most obedient,& very humble Servants, CHA. PETTIT, JOHN NIXON, - - THOS. FITZSIMONS, ISAAC HAZLEHURST, - J. M. NESBITT." His Excellency, The President of the Council. - • * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 54,-and preceding page (220.) 10+
Page 222
222 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. CouncIL TO COMMR's OF TAXES IN PHILAD'A, 1784. Philadelphia, March 20th, 1784. Gentlemen, Council wish to know what is the amount of Tax arising from Billiard Tables* in the City and County of Philadelphia, and I have their direction to request you will please to give them the necessary Information on that subject. - Directed—Commissioners of the Taxes in the City and County of Philadelphia. - DAVID MEADE To Col. MooRE, 1784. Si Wioming, March 20th, 1784. Ir, Agreeable to your Desire I must inform you that there is Beef to Last until the first of May, Whiskey, Wheat and Corn for a Month, and am assured by Mr. Weitzel that a Boat Load of Flower will be Rec" here as soon as Possable after the River is Navigable. I am, Sir, yours, &c., ; DAVID MEADE. Directed—Col. Moore. MAJOR JAMEs MooRE To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Si Fort Dickinson, March 20, 1784. Ir, The People in this Country has suffered Exceedingly by the late fresh, not less than 150 Houses have been carried away. The Grain is Principaly Lost, and a very considerable part of the Cattle drowned—the Water was 30 feet above Low Water Mark. Inclosed I send your Excellency a Return of the Provision now in store and of the Quantity that is shortly expected up the River. Inclosed you have the deposition of James Culver, it is a prelude to the troubles we have every reason to expect this spring. The water was so High in the Garrison that some of the ammuni- tion was Injured. I have the Honor to be, with the Highest Esteem, your Excellency's most Obd" servt, J. MOORE. Indorsed—An account of the Fresh in the Susquehanna & peoples sufferings in consequence. Directed.—His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President of the State of Penn", Philadelphia. * See page 224. -
Page 223
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 228 PRES. DICKINSON TO SPEAKER OF ASSEMBLY, 1784. In Council, March 23d, 1784. Sir we have this Day received the inclosed Letter from the Minister of France, which we think proper to communicate to your Honorable House. I am with great Respect, Sir, your most obedient and most humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Pirected, The Honorable, the Speaker. PREs. DICKINSON To MINISTER OF FRANCE, 1784. Si In Council, March 23d, 1784. Ir, This Day We have had the Honor of receiving your Letter of yesterday, which we shall immediately communicate to the General Assembly. A Law of this State passed last March, ordered notes of one Year's Interest to be paid on Certificates of monies loaned to the United States or Debts due from them, where such Certificates were issued from the Loan Office of this State, or granted for Articles furnishnd or Services performed by Citizens of this State, and in the name and for the use of persons, who at the time of issuing were or since have been Citizens of this State and are actually resident within the same. I am with Regard, Sir, your most obedient and most humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Pirected, The Minister of France. PREs. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1784. Gentlemen, Dr. Ewing, & David Rittenhouse, John Lukens & Thomas Hutch- ins, Esquires, are appointed Commissioners by Council for ascer- taining the Boundary Line between Virginia and this State, in pursuance of the agreement made at Baltimore on the 31st of August, 1779.” * See Wol. WIII., p. 352, &c., -also, Wol. IX.
Page 224
224 . PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. For this purpose, two of the Commissioners of each State, propose to meet at the Eastern Extremity of Mason & Dixon's Line, & the rest of them at the Western Extremity thereof, the Beginning of next June. - As it is designed that the Meridian Line for the Western Bound- ary of this State should also be run if it can be safely done, We think it proper that Congress should be informed of these Intentions, which we desire you will please to communicate. CoM. OF TAXES OF PHILAD'A, TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. To His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President, and the Honorable, the Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, In compliance with the wishes of Council, we have examined our Books of Assessment, and find that the tax arising on Billiard Tables,” in the City and County of Philadelphia, amounts to the sum of three hundred and forty five Pounds. We are with very great respect, your most obed & very hum' servants, MICHAEL SHUBART. - - JOHN BROOKE. * Philade, March 24th, 1784. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President, &c., &c. REPORT TO GENERAL Assembly, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, - Thursday, March 25, 1784, A. M. The committee appointed March 11, to confer with the Supreme Executive Council, respecting the proper time for withdrawing the troops stationed at Wyoming, made report, which was read and on mction and by special order, the same was read the second time and adopted as follows, (viz.) The committee directed to confer with Council respecting the proper time for removing the troops from Wyoming, report: That they have performed that service, and find Council un- animously of opinion, that it wonld be highly improper to remove the troops before the first day of December next; but notwithstand- ing the opinion of that honorable body, which seems to be founded upon no other reasons than those already mentioned, and fully debated by this House; Your committee beg leave to offer the following resolution, (viz.:) * See page 222.
Page 225
PENNSYLVANIA. ARCHIVES 1784. 225 Resolved, that the blank in the resolution of the eleventh instant, respecting the discharge of the troops now stationed at Wyoming, be filled up with the first day of June next. Extract from the Minutes. J. SHALLUS, Ass' Clerk of the General Assembly. PERSONS WHO PURCHASED PROVINCE ISLAND AND CITY LOTs, 1784. List of persons indebted to the State for the purchase of Province . Island and City Lots, - Days of payment. Sums Due. Prices. George Henry, . . 1781, July 26, . . . .6459 £1140 10 John Mitchell, . 1782, Feb. 23, . . . 121 173 *Robert Cocks, . 1781, Sep. 5, . . . 1083. 1083 *Ephriam Blaine,'. . Dº Dº, . . . 1033. 1083 Richard Humpton, . 1782, March 6, . . . 110 139 John Mitchell, . - . 13, . . . 127 174 Blair M'Clenachan, - . D", . . . 30 119 Do - - - - . D", . . . 27 196 Philip Moore, April . 4, . . . 252 588 *William Sheaff, . - . 18, . . . 1230|| 1230 James Loughead, . . • 25, . . . 10 123 Dunlap & Budden, May . 8th, . . . 203 268 . Joseph Dean, - - . 29, . . . 158 217 . John Taylor, - - . D", . . .; 77 130 : Davis & Patton, . June . 17, . . . 164 254 *Samuel M. Brown, - . D", . . . 134 134 . George Bickham, . . . . . Dº, . . . 258 345 John Barker, ... July . 31, . . . 243 331 Peter Stretch, - . D*, . . . 74 185 *John Clendennin, April . 18, . . . 88 88 Anthony Cuthbert, Oct. . 11, . . . . 249 327 Ephraim Blaine, . - . D", . . . 87 255 Thomas Leiper, . 1783, May 30", . . . 670 1660 *William Grinding, - . D", . . . 375 375 Jacob Esler, - - . Dº, . . . .306 350 D: John Morgan, . - . Dº, . . . 1506| 2155 *Stacey Hepburn, . - . D*, . . . 165 165 George Way, - - . D", . . . 573 665 John Danlap, - - . D", . . . 530 2815 Dunlap & Budden, . 1782, June 17", . . 485 632 Those marked,” have paid no part of the purchase money. The above ballances are set down in round numbers, as it wou'd
Page 226
226 PENNSYLVANIA. ARCHIVES 1784. be useless to compute the Interest accurately ’till it is known what kind of money they will be paid in. Errors Excepted. DAVID RITTENHOUSE. Treas. March 25th, 1784. Indorsed, The Treasurers Report of Monies due for City Lots. Read in Council, 26th of March, 1784—and the Secº directed to request the attendance of the Atty Gen' to confer with Council. TIMOTHY MATLACK TO SPEAKER OF THE GENERL AssRMBLY, 1784. * To the honorable George Gray, Esq.", Speaker of the General Assembly, March, 25, 1784. Sir, I have been furnished with a Copy of a letter of the 4” of last month from James Wilson and William Bradford, Esq.", to you in which they say that “the Counsel retained to conduct the cause “between the Commonwealth & Timothy Matlack Esq., amicably “entered in the Supreme Court agreably to the resolution of the “hon’ble General Assembly of Pennsylvania beg leave to report, “that they find it impossible to carry the said resolution into effect “so as to do justice to the Commonwealth.” As some measure of justice is due to me as well as to the Commonwealth, I hope it will not be deemed criminal on my part, if I have been so attentive to my own security as to guard against those measures which my coun- sel, as well as myself, considered as artfully planned to Surprize and ensnare Ine. The letter of the counsel for the State, loads me with the odium of having prevented the resolution of the honorable house from being carried into effect, by evading the trial which I myself had sought. This charge is not founded in truth; on the other hand, I can furnish authentick vouchers for the truth of what I shall now State to you, and thro you to the honorable the General Assembly. This cause ought to have been tried long before this day; & I solic- ited very earnestly to have it brought to trial last April term in the Supreme Court, & again at September term; yet thro’ no fault of mine, nor from want of diligence in my counsel, the cause was not entered on the Docket, until I was obliged to take a rule for exam- ining Gen. Lacey in New Jersey a few days before the day appoint- ed for the trial, which was the 27" of January, and altho I had taken pains with the assistance of my counsel, to have the jury See Col. Rec. XIV. p. 56.
Page 227
IPENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 227 struck more than two months before the day appointed for trial; yet the Venire facias was not taken out on the part of the Common- wealth and delivered to the Sheriff, until about two days preceding that appointed for the trial. No delay was affected on my part, and when the jury did not attend upon the short notice given to them; at my own earnest request and entreaty another day was appointed. That day arrived, to wit the 3d of Feb'y; a jury attended, and then arose the difficulty which I am now charged with creating. Here it is necessary to look back to the begining of this business; so far as respects the ordering of the matter to be tried between the Commonwealth and myself. When the Comptroller General and myself differed in opinion, upon certain charges I made of monies on account of my salary and fees belonging to my late office, I pro- posed to him that the question arising upon those charges should either be submitted to the opinion of the Judges of the Supream Court as questions of law, or be referred for trial to a Jury in the Common Pleas or Supream Court upon a feigned issue; both of which methods I stated with the assistance of counsel, as being con- sonant to the practice of the Court of Chancery in England. This fact you will find supported by the proposition I made signed with my name. The report made by the Comptroller General on my account, the 19th of March, 1783, admitted that the account of monies received by me is probably right, and contains no other, ob- jections to them, than certain articles of credit therein stated which are really questions of law. He adds, that my proposition to deter- mine them either by stating the questions therein mentioned for the opinion of the Judges, or trying the contested points by a jury (which I had proposed to have tried on a feigned issue as I have already mentioned) appeared to be very reasonable, & prays to be instructed by the Honorable Council or Assembly, what may to their prudence & Superior Wisdom appear most eligible, and that, if necessary, counsel might be employed. On the 21* day of March last, the President in Council, by a Message to the Honorable the Assembly signified, that the Supreme Executive Council “presumed the ques- tions of right might be determined in the manner proposed by the Secretary, which appeared to them to be reasonable.” This Mess- age on the same day was referred to a Committee. On the 22" day of March the report of the Committee was mado and adopted “that the Secretary had charged the State with a very considerable sum which the Comptroller General declares to be altogether inadmissable and prayed to be instructed by the Honora- ble the Council or Assembly &c,” and it was thereupon resolved by the House “That the Comptroller General of this State, proceed to the trial of the contested points in the accounts of Timothy Matlack, Esq., in the Supream Court; and that he be authorized to employ Counsel for that purpose.” The objections made by the Comptroller General on certain points of law, as to my salary and fees, stated by him, formed these contes-
Page 228
228 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. ted points, and these contested points, particularly stated, were all which were directed by the House to be tried by a Jury in the Supream Court. From that time to the present I have been always ready to form the feigned issue, and my counsel inform me they have repeatedly proposed and urged it, at every court since March lsst. I expected that these contested points & these only would have been stated for the opinion of the jury under the direction of the Judges and I had a right to expect it, because the order of the House was confined to these. Did I prevent this and thereby render “it impossible to carry the resolution of the House into effect 7” Far from it; but on the other hand the Counsel for the State declared, that the house had ordered what could not be done, that it was an absurdity in itself; that to swear a jury to try and give their verdict on a point of law was a thing which had never before been heard of. Whether this circumstance be the one which makes it “impossible to carry the resolution of the House into effect so as to do justice to the Commonwealth” I cannot determine; but the diffi- culty is not imputable to me; for my Counsel remonstrated that the Attorney General had no authority to proceed against me but con- formably to the order of the House; that as to any absurdity in the mode prescribed, we have nothing to do with it, but to obey, & that the thing was not imputable to us, because I had offered to refer the contested points to the opinion of the Judges. Thus far I was surely not to blame; for if, in the opinion of the Counsel for the State, it was absurd or impossible to carry the order of the House into effect, the fault lay not at my door—I went further: Wishing to remove every difficulty in the way of a speedy decision I again offered to state the contested points for the opinion of the Judges, who were best qualified to decide on questions of law, This was refused. I urged the forming a feigned issue and tryin it by a Jury agreably to my first proposition, which had been j reasonable by the Comptroller General, by the Supreme Executive Council & by the Honorable the House of Assembly; agreably to the established mode of trying contested points which arise in the Court of Chancery, & agreably to our own practice in the Case of issues directed from the Registers Court to try the validity of wills. This proposition, if accepted, would have brought the “contested points” fairly before the court and jury for trial, without a possibil- ity of Surprize or the least undue advantages to either party. It would also have had uninterrupted usage with a long and respectable train of precedents to authorise it. This however was rejected, and rejected by the very Gentlemen who have since told the House, that they find it impossible to carry the resolution of the House into effect. What was to be done 7 The Court declared that an issue must be formed in some mode before the Cause could be tried. But the Counsel for the State would agree to no other mode of doing it than that of filing a declaration against me for money had and received
Page 229
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 229 by me for the use of the State. To this I submitted on condition that the contested points to be tried might be stated in writing. After three or four attempts, in which the Counsel for the State receded from their own propositions as often as they were agreed to on my part, the points to be tried were agreed to & signed by my counsel. But when the jury was ready to be sworn, it appeared that no declaration was yet filed, & when I was perfectly willing & as I thought ready for the trial a new and very unexpected scene was disclosed. A declaration was drawn up at the table, in which I was charged, not with the sum specified in the Comptrollers report to be the sum received by me, but with having received ninety seven thousand Pounds; a sum far beyond the sum stated by the Comp- troller General and beyond what I had any imagination that I was ever suspected of receiving. A new account was also exhibited by the Comptroller, upon very different principles & for a much larger sum than that contained in his report. One of the Counsel for the state also mentioned, that they had additional charges to make even beyond their new account; but what those additional charges were he refused to mention & I do not yet know. These matters were widely different from those which the house had ordered to be tried & which I came prepared to defend myself against. My accusation was in part new, & part of it yet concealed, ready to be brought forward at the very instant of trial, when material witnesses might be absent, records unsearched, papers and authentic documents out of my hands and not attainable, and my counsel totally uninstructed as to all the new matter. Against attacks of this nature innocence is not a sure protection; because time and preparation are often necessary to make innocence appear, especially where long accounts & complicated facts are in question. Irefused to be thus entrapped; but lest the cause should not go on, I made another proposition; that the counsel employed against me should proceed in the very mode that they wished to do, if they would confine themselves to the account stated by the comptroller general in his report, which was the subject matter of the trial directed by the house of assembly. This proposition was also rejected. The court interposed & desired the counsel on both sides to converse together, & endeavor to fall upon some method of terminating the dispute. This was at length agreed to, 'tho with reluctance by the counsel for the State, and when the counsel on both sides withdrew together, I hoped that some mode for bringing the matter in controversy to a fair trial might have been fallen upon; but one of the counsel for the State began the conference by declaring that it was his fixed determination not to recede in the smallest degree from what they had before urged. This very singular mode of accommodating the dispute which was entirely different from what was recommended by the court, broke off the treaty, & it is evident, that it would have been vain & ridiculous in us to make any propositions, when we were assured that none of any kind, however reasonable, would be accepted.
Page 230
230 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. The consequence was that the court dismissed the jury from further attendance & the resolution of the house was not carried into effect. Whether this was occasioned by me, or by those who charge me with it, the honorable house will be at no loss to determine. I do hereby renew all the propositions which I have made and which are contained in this letter. It is beneath the dignity of government to wish to ensnare an innocent man, & I cannot persuade myself that the legislature really desire it. The questions to be tried are fairly stated in the Comptroller Generals report. I am willing to submit those questions to a court or a jury. I have no objections to the jury who were struck in the cause or to any other good men. As my case may possibly form a leading precedent in cases of the like nature, I would submit it to the wisdom of the honorable house, whether a feigned issue, in which all the points in contest are fairly stated in case of trial by jury & in which we are warranted by the example & practice of ages be not the most eligible mode. I am with due respect, Your most obedient servant, T. MATLACK. INSTRUCTIONS TO COMM'RS FOR RUNNING Boundary LINE, 1784. In Council, Philadelphia, March 26th, 1784. Gentlemen, With this letter you will receive a Certificate of the act of Coun- cil respecting your appointment duly authenticated. We confide in your abilities and attention, that the very important business committed to your charge will be performed in the best manner. e Your first employment after the necessary astronomical observa- tions, we presume will be the Extension of Mason's and Dixon's line, due West five degrees of Longitude. This extended line we desire to have marked by Stones properly prepared and fixed in the ground, at the distance of five miles from one another, every stone to be ºinscribed with its distance from the River Delaware. The South West Corner of the State should be marked with a large Stone, well fixed and by a considerable heap of smaller stones around it. The bearings & distance of near & remarkable objects around it should be taken & be mentioned in the Report of proceedings. The line from thence to the Northern Limit of the State should be marked as the Southern boundary is to be, computing the distance to be inscribed upon each Stone therein from the South West Corner.
Page 231
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 281 We hope that such a peace will be be established with the Indians before you arrive at the Ohio in running the Western boundary, that you may safely proceed in that Work to its northern Extremity. In that Case, we wish you to ascertain the North Western Corner of this State by astronomical observations in the Latitude of forty three degrees, and to mark that as the South West Corner is to be. We have given Notice to Congress of your appointment as Com- missioners to make these surveys; and if any should be appointed on their part, you will be pleased to act in conjunction with them. As you Gentlemen in the Execution of this Commission, will travel over many parts of the Country, We cannot but ardently wish that you may embrace the opportunity of making every obser- vation and obtaining all possible information concerning the situa- tion and courses of Rivers, Streams, Hills and Mountains, that may be of the least use in assisting the public Councils, on the very interesting subjects of forming the most advantageous commu- nications by roads and canals between the different parts of the State. We have appointed Colonel Andrew Porter to attend you as Com- missary under your direction. He is to purchase before you set out the articles of which a list is enclosed, except such as can be obtained from the public stores, procure provisions at the places of operation, hire necessary Labourers, and to render a just and true account of the Monies expended. I am Gentlemen, with great Esteem and Regard, your obedient and very humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON.” Doctor John Ewing, David Rittenhouse, John Lukens, and Thomas Hutchins, Esq., Commissioners for running the Boundary Line between this State and Virginia. SEC'Y OF CONGRESS To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. S Annapolis, 29th March, 1784. 1r, In pursuance of the within act of the United States in Congress assembled, I had the honor of forwarding to your Excellency on the 26th, January last, f in the terms prescribed, a notification of the application made in Congress for the institution of a Court to de- termine the private right of soil between the Individuals, claiming under different States in that tract of Country which by a late Fede- ral Court has been adjudged to Pennsylvania and of the assignment of a day for the parties to appear before Congress or a Committee * See Col. Rec., XIV. pp. 59, 74,288, 518. f See page 194.
End of Section 75. Continue to next section or 
Section 76
Page 232
232 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. of the States, for instituting such Court agreeably to the articles of Confederation. As I have not been favour'd with an answer, and it may become necessary to show that the notification has been duly received, I must request your Excellency to take the trouble of acknowledging the receipt of this or of my former Letter. I have the honor to be, with respect your Excellency, most obet. & most hum. Servant, - CHA. THOMSON. Directed, His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania. PREs. DICKINSON TO Col. JAMEs MooRE, 1784. In Council, Philada., March 30th, 1784. Sir We have received your Letter, and the inclosed deposition both which we laid before the General Assembly, and now send a late resolution of that Honorable Body. With great Esteem and Consideration I am, Sir, your most obedient and very humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, Colo. Moore, at Wyoming. CouncIL To JoHN WEITZEL, 1784. In Council, Philadelphia, March 30th, 1784. Sir iſ have the directions of Council to inclose to you a Copy of the Resolution of the General Assembly of the 25th instant for dis- charging the Garrison of Wyoming on the first June next—and that it is the sense of Council you should not furnish provisions to the Troops stationed at that place after that day. I am, Sir with much respect, your most obedient and humble servant, J. T., for J. A., jr, Sec'y. Directed, John Weitzle, Esqr.
End of Section 76. Continue to next section or 
Section 77
Page 233
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 233 CoMMISSIONERS ON BOUNDARY LINE TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Sir, We have considered the proposals made to us, by the Executive Council, and are unanimously of opinion that it will be inconsistent with the Business for us to have anything to do with providing Necessaries for ourselves, or with being dependent on the Humour of a Commissary so that unless it be part of his Duty to provide for us, we cannot undertake the Work. And when we reflect upon the accuracy necessary for the accomplishment of the Work, the constant attention to the observations both Night and Day, the frequent interruptions of our natural Rest, the daily Fatigue we must undergo, the Danger of losing our Health and above all the Regard we ought to have to our Characters with all the Gentlemen of Astronomical Knowledge in Europe, whose Eyes will be turned upon us, and who will expect from us all that Precision, that can be derived from the greatest astronomical Discoveries that have yet been made; We expect that the supreme Executive Council will enable us to meet the Commissioners from Virginia upon equal Terms: which, we have good Reason to believe, is for six Dollars per Day, and all their Expences paid by the State. We are with the greatest Respect, Sir, your very humble Servants, JOHN EWING, DAV. RITTENEHOUSE. JNO. LUKENS, THO. HUTCHINS.* Philadelphia, 30th March, 1784. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq’r, President of the State. REsoluTION OF Assembly, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly. Thursday, April 1, 1784, P. M. A member presented to the chair a motion which was read, and on motion, and by special order, the same was read the second time, and adopted as follows, (viz.:) Whereas, the Barracks, public store House and Powder Magazine in the borough of Lancaster, are now vacant, and for want of a proper person to take care of them, are subject to destruction and spoil; therefore, * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 60. . º
Page 234
234 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Resolved, That the Supreme Executive Council be and they are hereby authorised to appoint a proper person, residing in the said borough of Lancaster, to take charge of the said Barracks, pub- lic store house and powder magazine, who shall be vested with power to rent the same to such person or persons as may apply for them or either of them, for the highest rent he may be offered for them or have in his power to obtain, out of which rent the person so appointed shall be paid the sum of six pounds per annum for his trouble, shall keep the said Barracks and store house in such repair as they now are, for which repairs he shall be allowed out of the remainder of the rent arising out of the buildings aforesaid; and that he render an account of his transactions in the premises to the Prothonotary of the county, who, after having approved thereof, shall transmit the same into the Comptroller General's office, and pay such balance as may remain after making the deduction of the sums above mentioned, to the Treasurer of this State. Extract from the Minutes, PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly. PREs. OF CONGRESS TO PREs. DICKINson, 1784. (Circular.) Sir, The subject of this address claims the attention of your Excel- lency, on the principle of the most ulgent necessity. The state of our finances is such as to require the united efforts of Congress and of the several States, for obtaining immediately a supply of money to prevent the loss of public credit. When the army was furloughed, they had the promise of three months pay; and as there was not money in the Treasury, the Superintendant of finance was under the necessity of issuing his notes to discharge this and other Demands. The notes becoming due, part of them were redeemed with money supplied by the several States; but this being inadequate, the Financier drew bills on Holland for the deficiency. A considerable proportion of these drafts have been paid by loans obtained there on the credit of the United States; But the letters from our Bankers to the Superint of finance, inform that they had been under the necessity for the want of funds, to suffer so many of his Bills to be protested for non- acceptance, as with the damages on protest in case of non-payment, will amount to the sum of 636,000 dollars. We expect the return of these bills, under a protest for non-pay- ment; and should there not be money in the Treasury of the United States to discharge them, your Excellency may easily conceive the deplorable consequences.
Page 235
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 235 Under such circumstances, Congress think it their duty to com- municate the matter confidentially to the Supreme Executive of each State; and to request in the most pressing terms their influence and exertion to furnish with all possible dispatch on requisitions unsatis- fied, their respective quotas of the sum mentioned, according to the apportionment herewith transmitted. I shall only add, Sir, that Congress rely on your wisdom for ac- complishing their views with as much dispatch as possible, and that the estimates and requisitions for the year will be soon transmitted to your Excellency. w I am with the greatest Respect & Esteem, your Excellency's obedient & humble serv", THOMAS MIFFLIN. Annapolis, 1st April, 1784. Directed, Public Service. His Excellency, President Dickinson, Philadelphia. RETURN OF OFFICERS OF FourTH BATTALION OF MILITIA OF PHILAD'A County, 1784. A Return of the Officers of the Fourth Battalion of the Militia of Philada. County, commanded by Col Peter Richards. Michael Gaugler, Capt'n, Philip Boyer, Lieut., First Company. Peter Yost, Ensign. Benjamin Marckley Capt'n, John Smith, Lieut., Second Company, Barnard Freyer, Ensign. - Matthew Brooke, Capt'n, Jeremiah Wiser, Lieut., Henry Barnhart, Ensign. John Brooke, Capt'n, John Betz, Lieut., Israel Ortleip, Ensign. Jacob Witz, Capt'n, | Third Company. Fourth Company. Nathaniel Child, Lieut., James Jack, Ensign. Joseph Sigfreed, Capt'n, Adam Hillegas, Lieut., Peter Lower, jun', Ensign. John Shuler, Capt'n, Henry Schneider, Lieut., Henry Smith, Ensign. Fifth Company. Sixth Company. Seventh Company.
End of Section 77. Continue to next section or 
Section 78
Page 236
236 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. John Dengler, Capt'n, George Dengler, Lieut., } Eighth Company. 2:1 George Gilbert, Ensign. w I do Hereby Certify that the above Return is a True Coppy o the Return maid by Col. Peter Richards. W* COATS, Lieut C. P. Philadº County, April 2nd, 1784. Directed, John Armstrong, Esq., Secretary to the Supreame Executive Councill of the State of Pensylvania. CoMM'Rs on Bound ARY LINE TO CouncIL, 1784. Gentlemen, - The Time of our Departure from Philadelphia drawing near, it is necessary that the Commissary should be employed in looking out for the articles that may be wanted. As the Council have signified. to us that they would be glad to know who would be agreeable to us in this Expedition, we would inform them that it appears probable to us, that Coll. Porter, from his long Experience in the army, and his knowledge of the most OEconomical and ready Way of supplying a number of Men with Necessaries would answer the Expectations of the Council and of the Commissioners, as well as any Person they can think of at present. He has informed us that if the Council will appoint him, he will go with us, and he is acquainted with the Terms which you have proposed. With Respect to the Provision to be made for the Commissioners, we have expressed our Sentiments fully in our last Letter to Coun- cil, and we have agreed to undertake the Business, and hope to accomplish the Work in such a manner as will give satisfaction to the State and answer the Expectations of Gentlemen of science in Europe, if the Council do not wish to have Men of greater abilities employed; in which Case we will cheerfully resign the Business into the Hands of any others that may appear to the honorable Council to be better qualified for the Work, or more eligible on the whole. An anxious Desire to gratify the astronomical World in the per- formance of a Problem which has never yet been attempted in any Country, by a Precision and Accuracy that would do no Dishonour to our Characters, while it prevents the State of Pennsylvania from the Chance of Losing many hundred Thousands of Acres, secured to it by our agreement at Baltimore, has induced us to suffer our Names to be mentioned in the accomplishment of the Work. We assure you that the lucrative motives that might have Influence with us, in other Circumstances, have not sufficient Weight to engage us in so difficult a Work, that will separate us from our Families for
Page 237
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 237 half a year, and subject most of us to Fatigues to which we have not been accustomed. And we cannot perswade ourselves that the State of Pennsylvania will avail itself of this Desire, to subject us to the mortifying Circumstance of meeting with the Commissioners from Virginia upon any unequal Terms. However, we submit the whole affair to the consideration of the honourable Council, and if upon our Return from the work it should be found that the Commissioners from Virginia have been employed on the same Terms, we shall perfectly acquiesce; as we look for no more than an Equality with them.* We are, Gentlemen, with great respect, your most obed’t h’ble servants, JOHN EWING. DAV. RITTENHOUSE. THO. HUTCHINS. Philadelphia, April 7th, 1784. Indorsed, From the Commissioners for running the Boundary Line between this State and Virginia. Read in Council April 7th, 1784, and Colº Andrew Porter app" Commissary. - Directed, The Honorable, the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. MATHIAS SLOUGH To Council, 1784. Lancaster, 8th April, 1784. Sir, You have no doubt been informed by the Clerk of Assembly of their Resolution respecting the Barracks and Public store houses in this Borough, and that No time may be lost in the appointment of a person to take Care of them, I Imediately on my arrival at home, made enquiry for a Proper person who would take upon him that charge for the Sum mentioned in the resolution; For this purpose I sent for the late assistant Barrack master, whose Name is John Schreiber, and who agrees to take it upon him at the Sum and in the manner directed by the Resolution of Assembly. . If therefore Coun- cil will be pleased to appoint him I doubt not but he will answer * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 69. Vol. X.-11
Page 238
238 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. the purpose. The sooner it is done, the better, as there is No person now to take any care of those Buildings. I have the Honour to be Sir, your most obedient servant, MATHIAS SLOUGH.” Indorsed, From Matthias Slough, rec'd 14th April, 1784. Recommendation of John Screiber as Keeper of the Barracks, &c., at Lancaster. Read in Council, April 23d, 1784, and John Screiber app", ap- pointment forwarded. Directed, Honourable James Ewing, Esquire, Vice President S. E. Council, Philadelphia. Hon’d by Colº Jno. Gibson. SECY. ARMSTRONG TO COMMISSIONERs, of TAXEs, 1784. (Circular.) 14th, April, 1784. Gentlemen, Some late accounts from Congress make it the duty of Council to call upon you again to exert yourselves in the discharge of your common Trust. It is impossible however that you can stand in need of any farther information upon that subject or that I can suggest any new motive to interest you in it. The former letters will sufficiently show you the wants of Govern- ment & the disposition of Council. I am Gen. &c., JNO. ARMSTRONG. APPORTIONMENT OF THE 636,000 Dollars, 1784. The apportionment of the 636,000 Dollars is as follows: New Hampshire, . . 22,348 Massachusetts, . . . 95,157 Rhode Island, . . . 13,703 Connecticut, . . . 56,007 New York, . . . 54,375 New Jersey, . . . . 85,344 Pennsylvania, . . . 87,000 Delaware, . . . 9,516 Maryland, . . . 60,003 Virginia, . . . 108,750 North Carolina, . . 46,218 South Carolina, . . 40,782 Georgia, . . . 6,797 636,000 Dollars. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 72, 76.
End of Section 78. Continue to next section or 
Section 79
Page 239
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 239 ~ RESOLUTION OF CONGRESS, 1784. April 19, 1784. On the report of a commitee consisting of Mr. Gerry, Mr. Sher- man and Mr. Lee, to whom was referred a motion of Mr. Gerry. Resolved, That the legislatures of the several states be informed that whilst they are respectively represented in Congress by two delegates only, such an unanimity for conducting the most impor- tant public concerns is necessary as can be rarely expected. That if each of the thirteen states should be represented by two members, five out of twenty-six, being only a fifth of the whole, may negative any measures requiring the voice of nine states. That of eleven states now on the floor of Congress, nine being represented by only two members from each, it is in the power of three out of twenty- five, making only one eighth of the whole to negative such a measure notwithstanding that by the articles of confederation, the dissent of five out of thirteen being more than one-third of the number, is necessary for such a negative. That in a representation of three members from each state, not less than ten of thirty-nine could so negative a matter requiring the voice of nine states. That from facts under the observation of Congress, they are clearly convinced that a representation of two members from the several states, is extremely injurious by producing delays, and for this reason is like- wise much more expensive than a general representation of three members from each state. That therefore Congress conceive it to be indispensibly necessary and earnestly recommend that each state, at all times when Congress are fitting, be hereafter represented by three members at least; as the most injurious consequences may be expected from the want of such representation. CHA. THOMSON, Secy. MICHAEL IIILLEGAs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. May it please your Excellency, I was just now honored with your favour of this day, acquaintin me with the Confidence you and The Honorable Executive Counci were pleased to place in me, and requesting I would act as a Com- missioner for dividing and making Sale of the Ground on which the Barracks Stand. You may rest assured That I have a just sence of the favorable opinion you and they have testified by this appointment, and to assure Council of my Chearful Acceptance of the same, as well as the satisfaction it is of having Tench Francis, Esquire, joined with me in the business; And that whenever Council will please to
End of Section 79. Continue to next section or 
Section 80
Page 240
240 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. give us such materials as they may be possessed of, with such orders or Instructions, as they may incline; they will be readily and to the best of our abilities attended to by Your and their most obedient and most humble Servant. ML. HILLEGAS.* April 19th 1784. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the State of Pennsylvania. - TENCH FRANCIS To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Philade, April the 20", 1784. Sir f will most chearfully united with my Friend Mr. Hillegas, un- dertake the Execution of the Business you propose, commit to our Care and With the greatest Esteem, I am Yº Most Ob. humble st., TENCEI FRANCIS. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq. CouncIL. To F. PHILE, NAVAL OFFICER, 1784. Philadelphia, April 21", 1784. Sir Čouncil wish to know what sum has been expended in pursuance of the resolutions of the Gen.' Assy appropriating the 23 per Cent for the improvement of the Navigation of the River Delaware; and for raising two Companies of Infantry to be stationed at Wiom- ing; and I have their directions to request your attendance in the Council Chamber to-morrow at 11 o’Clock, to give them such in- formation as you can on the subject. I am Sir, Your obedient and very humble servant, JAMES TRIMBLE, for John Armstrong, jun' Secº. Fºº Phile, Esq., Naval Officer. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XVI., p. 75.
End of Section 80. Continue to next section or 
Section 81
Page 241
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 241 PRES. DICKINSON TO CoMMISSIONERS For sALE of BARRACKs, 1784. In Council, April 28, 1784. Gentlemen, In pursuance of the Act of Assembly passed the first Instant,” empowering us to sell the Barracks, &c., we have appointed you to be Commissioners. It is our Desire, that you will be pleased immediately to proceed in “apportioning & laying off the ground, into as many Lots as may be necessary, with such & so many streets, & Lanes, that the Interest of the State & the convenience of the adjoining Inhabi. tants, may thereby be best promoted,” & having an accurate plan of the ground with these Divisions, report the same for further Instruc- tions in the Business. I am, Gent., &c., JOHN DICKINSON. Indorsed, 1784, April 23”. To Tench Francis and Michi Hillegas, Esquires. - DAVID RITTENHOUSE TO PREs. DrcKINson, 1784. Philadelphia, April 27th, 1784. Sir, The present exhausted State of the Treasury and the pressing occasions for money make it necessary for me to represent to the Hon” Council in the most earnest manner, the expediency of call- ing on the several revenue officers and urging payment; particularly the late and present Auctioneers, the Naval Officer and the Collec- tor of Imposts, together with such other persons as the Council or the Comptroller Gen' may think likely to afford a Supply. How little authority the Treasurer has in these matters, is well known. I am besides much engaged in preparing Instruments for our western Expedition. Agreeably to Instructions of the Hon” Council, I have by advertisment in several Newspapers, called on the purchasers of City Lots to make payment. I have not indeed published a List of names, as I was convinced the threat of so doing wou'd have more effect than the thing itself when done. I have likewise called personally on many of them ; and now beg leave to inform Council of the little success I have had. Co' Humpton has nearly paid off his Ballance; James Loughead has fully paid; Joseph Dean has * See page 239. w
Page 242
242 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Since paid £73 1; Davis & Patton have promised, but nothing more; George Bickham p" £65 15; Peter Stretch, £37 10; Anty Cuth- bert, £207 5; Tho" Leiper, £73 15; Dr Morgan, £148 4; John Dunlap, £309. What is further to be done in order to compel pay- ment before the first of June, (when all the holders of the Bills will expect to have them exchanged,) I humbly submit to the wis- dom of Council. Permit me, Sir, likewise to inform Council that there seems to be almost a total stop to the Collecting of Taxes. In July next the Interest notes are to be paid by Act of Assembly, at which time the Act Supposes the Tax for 1783, will be brought in; of this Tax there is however, no more than 29,474 Dollars paid into the Treasury, one- half of which only goes to redeem the Notes, will it not be neces- i. for Council to urge the Several County Cummis" to do their uty. July With due respect, Your Excellency's most obedº Humble servant, DAV. RITTENHOUSE, Treas. Directed, To His Excellency, the President, in Council. . . RESOLUTION OF CONGRESS, 1784. The United States in Congress Assembled, April 27, 1784. Congress resumed the consideration of the report of the Grand Committee appointed to prepare and report to Congress, the arrears of interest on the national debt, together with the expences for the year 1784, from the first to the last day thereof inclusive, and a requisition of money on the states for discharging the same, which being amended to read as follows— Resolved, That there will be wanting for arrears of interest on the national debt to the end of the year 1783, and for the interest of the foreign debt and services of the present year 1784, from the first to the last. day thereof inclusive, the following sums expressed in dollars, tenths and hundredths of dollars, The civil department, - - - 107,525.33 The military department, - - - 200,000 The marine department, - - 30,000 Purchases of Indian rights of soil, and incidental expences, - - - 60,000 Contingencies, - - - - 60,000 457,525.33 Debts contracted and still unpaid for services of 1782 and 1783, - - 1,000,000 Interest on the national debt as follows—
Page 243
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 243 For EIGN DEBT. 1782, Dec. 31. Three years interest on , the Spanish loan of t 150,000 dollars at five per cent. - - 22,500 1783, Dec. 31. Spanish loan, one year, 7,500 To the farmers general of France, livres 846,710-5, 7,840 1784, June 1. Dutch loan of 1,800,000 florins, at five per cent, - - - 35,000 Sept. 3. French loan of 24 mil- lion livres at ditto, 222,000 Nov. 5, Dutch loan of 10 mil- lion livres, guaran- teed by France, - 74,074 Dec. 31, Spanish loan, - - 7,500 - Farmers general of France, 7,840 384,254 DOMESTIC DEBT. 1782, Dec. 31. Loan office debt, - 11,473,802.26 at 6 - per cent, - 1,184,176 Liquidated debt, 701,404 at ditto. 21,042 Army debt, 5,635,618 at 6 per cent, - 676,272 1,881,490 Deduct the requisition of Sept. 4, 1782, - - - - 1,200,000 - — 681,490 1783, Dec. 31. Loan office debt, - 749,050 - Liquidated debt, - - 42,084 Unliquidated debt, estimated at 8 million dollars, suppose one third now liquidated, 160,000 Army debt, - - 338,136 1,289,270 Total, 8,812,589.23
Page 244
244 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. The committee were apprised that the resolutions of Congress of April the 18th, 1783, had recommended to the several states the raising an annual revenue, for the purpose of discharging the principal and interest of the national debt, by the establishment of certain imposts, and providing supplementary funds for a given term of years, to be raised in such a way as they might judge most convenient: but it occurred to them, that those recommendations were still under suspence with several of the legislatures, some of them having as yet acceded to the impost only, and others decided neither on the impost nor supplementary funds: that however desirable a compliance therewith is, for the preservation of our faith, and establishment of a national credit, yet as time has already elapsed, and more must elapse before their final confirmation can be hoped, as, after it shall be obtained, time will also be requisite to advance the plan to the term of actual collection, good faith requires that in the mean while other measures should be resorted to for the purpose of discharging the growing interest. In the statement of the interest due at the close of the year 1782, the committee have supposed its amount lessened by 1,200,000 dollars, required and appropriated by the resolutions of Congress of September the 4th and 10th, 1782, and appropriated to the sole purpose of paying the interest of the public debt. This requisition gave licence to the states to apply so much as should be necessary of their respective quotas of it, to the payment of interest due on certificates issued from the loan office of their own states, and other liquidated debts of the United States contracted therein. Hence they suppose it has happened, that the actual payments of these quotas have been uncommunicated to the office of finance for the United States. The committee are of opinion, that the states should be desired to communicate to the superintendant of finance, the payments they have made under this requisition, and where they have been incomplete, to hasten their completion, as the means still relied on by Congress for the discharge of that part of the interest of the public debt—And while on this subject, they beg leave to add, that from the representation to Congress by the minister of France, referred to this committee, they learn that in some of the states, a discrimination has taken place between the citizens of their own and subjects or citizens of other countries, which was not authorized by the said resolution: They are of opinion, that such states should be required to revise and reform their proceedings herein, and to extend the benefits both past and future of this pro- vision equally and impartially to all persons within its description. Your committee then came to consider in what way it would be best to call for the sums requisite for the services before stated: and they thought it their duty in the first place to enquire, whether no surpluses might remain on former requisitions of Congress, after the purposes were effected to which they were originally appropriated; under an assurance that it would be both the duty and sense of
End of Section 81. Continue to next section or 
Section 82
Page 245
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. 245 Congress to apply such surpluses, in every instance, towards lessening the next requisition on the states. They found in fact that such a surplus would remain on the requisition of October 30, 1781, for eight millions of dollars for the services of the ensuing year and that this surplus would be great from the following circumstances;– . That requisition was estimated on supposition, that the continental army would be completed by the states, to its full establishment; and that clothing subsistence and other necessaries for such an army, must of course be provided The states were far short of producing such an army. Hence the calls for money were propor- tionally abridged. It was estimated too on the further supposition that we might be disappointed in the endeavours we were then exerting to borrow money both at home and abroad, and of course that the whole must be supplied by taxes. Loans however were obtained, and the surplus increased by this second cause. A third circumstance has further enlarged it. The payments on this requi- sition have been small and slow. Hence, instead of money, those who served and supplied the United States have received certificates only that money is due to them, and these debts have been trans- ferred to the fund proposed to be raised by way of impost : so that tho' the debts exist, they are removed from this to another fund. To know then the amount of this surplus, the committee extended their enquiries to the sums actually received under this requisition, the purposes to which they have been applied, and the anticipations thereof still unsatisfied. They found that 1,486,511.71, only of the eight millions of dollars had been received at the treasury at the close of the year 1783; that these had been applied to the services of the years 1782 and 1783, and that for other services of the same years, debts were contracted to the amount of about one million of dollars more, which depend for their discharge on further receipts under this requisition; a statement of the expenditures of which sums should be made out and forwarded to the legislatures of the several states. Your committee then are of opinion that a surplus of 5,513,488.28 dollars will remain of this requisition, after answering all the demands which actually arose against it, which were not answered by other means, nor transferred to other funds; and that this surplus ought to [be] applied so far as it will go, to the common purposes of the United States, so as to prevent new requi- sitions on them till the old shall have been exhausted, and to shew to those who may have paid their whole quota of any requisition, that they will not be called on anew till all the other states shall in like manner have paid up their quotas. Your committee found also that there was a requisition of Congress of October 16, 1782, for two millions of dollars for the services of the year 1783, on which some small payments had been tendered, but that the superintendant of finance had found it better to receive and credit them as part of the eight millions. They are 11+
Page 246
246 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. accordingly comprehended in the sum before stated to have been paid in under that head. Having thus stated the demands existing against the states, the committee would have performed but half their duty, had they passed over unnoticed their condition to pay them. Their abilities must be measured in weighing their burthens. Their creditors themselves will view them just relieved from the ravages of pre- datory armies, returning from an attendance on camps, to the culture of their fields—beginning to sow, but not yet having reaped- exhausted of necessaries and habitual comforts, and therefore needing new supplies out of the first proceeds of their labour. Forbearance then, to a certain degree, will suggest itself to them. Congress entrusted with the dispensation of justice between the public and its creditors will suppose both parties desirous that their mutual situa- tions should be considered and accommodated. Your committee are of opinion that if the whole balances of the two requisitions of eight and of two millions, should be rigorously called into payment within the course of the present year, a compliance with such call would produce much distress; and that a proportion short of this should be fixed on, within the reach of the least as well as of the most able states. They propose therefore that the states be required to furnish within the course of the present year, such part of their deficiencies under the requisition of eight millions, as, with their payments to the close of the last year, will make up one-half of their original quota thereof. And that these payments be appropriated in conformity with the statement in the first part of this report, giving generally, where accommodation cannot be effected among the several objects, a preference according to the order in which they are arranged in the said statement. But while this proportion of former deficiencies is of necessity called for, under the pressure of demands which will admit neither denial nor delay, and the punctual compliance of every state is expected, to enable the federal administration with certainty to satisfy these demands, it is earnestly and warmly recommended to the abler states, to go as far beyond this proportion in specie, as their happier situation will admit; under an assurance, that such further contributions will be applied towards discharging the publie debt agreeably to the preceding statement, and will be placed to their credit in the next requisitions, with interest thereon from the time of payment: and also that before any further demand is made upon the states, under the requisition for two millions of dollars, or the requisition for eight millions of dollars, Congress will revise the quotas of the several states mentioned in the said requisitions respectively, and will make them agreeable to justice, upon the best information Congress may have when such demand is made. But as all our exertions will probably fall short of their full object, in that case it is believed that the public creditors seeing the load of interest accumulated during the war, greater than can be discharged
Page 247
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 247 in the first year of peace, will be contented for the present, to receive the earlier part of these arrears, and to rely for the residue on the efforts of the ensuing year. Individual states have at times thought it hard that while, in their own opinion, they were in advance for the United States on accounts existing and unsettled between them, they should yet be called on to furnish actual contributions of money. The committe observe in answer to this, first, that almost every state thinks itself in advance; and secondly, that it has been the constant wish of Congress that these accounts should be settled, and the contributions of each be known and credited. They have accordingly taken measures, and will continue their endeavours to effect these settlements: And as a further encouragement to hasten this desireable work, the committee are of opinion Congress should declare, that so soon as these accounts shall be settled, and it shall appear in favour of what states balances arise, such states shall have credit for the same in the requisitions next ensuing. But it will be necessary to remind the states that no materials have yet been furnished to enable Congress to adjust the ultimate ratio in which the expenditures of the late war shall be apportioned on the states. The confederation directs that this shall be regulated by the value of the lands in the several states with the buildings and improvements thereon. Experiments made however since the date of that instrument, for the purposes of ordinary taxation, had induced doubts as to the practicability of this rule of apportionment; yet Congress thought it their duty to give it fair trial, and recom- mended to the several states on the 17th February, 1783, to furnish an account of their lands, buildings and number of inhabitants, whereon they might proceed to estimate their respective quotas: but apprehending that the incompetence of the rule would immediately shew itself, and desirous that no time should be unnecessarily lost, they followed it with another recommendation of the 18th of April, 1783, to substitute in lieu of that article in the confederation another, which should make the number of inhabitants, under certain] modifications, the measure of contribution for each state. Both these propositions are still-under reference to the several legislatures; the latter accompanied by the earnest wishes, and preference of Congress, under full conviction that it will be found in event as equal, more satisfactory, and more easy of execution : the former only pressed if the other should be rejected. The committee are informed that the states of Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and South-Carolina, have acceded to the alteration proposed; but have no evidence that the other states have as yet decided thereon. As it is necessary that the one or the other measure should be immediately resorted to, they are of opinion it should be recommended to the legislatures which have not yet decided between them, to come to decision at their next meeting, In order to present to the eye a general view of the several
Page 248
248 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, existing requisitions, and of the payments made under them, the committee has subjoined them in the form of a table, wherein the 1st column enumerates the states; the 2d the apportionment of the 1,200,000 dollars; the 3d that of the 8 millions; the 4th that of the 2 millions; the 5th the sums paid by the several states in part of their respective quotas to the last day of the year 1783; and the 6th the sums now required to make up one-half of their respective quotas of the 8 millions, expressed in dollars, tenths and hundredths of dollars. App or - App or - App or - Paid of the Sums now tionment tionment|tionment 8 m. before required to of the of the 8 of the 2 Dec'ber 31, make 3 of º mil. mil. 1783. the 8 m. ol. New-Hampshire 48,000 873,598. 80,000 3,000 188,799 Massachusetts 192,0001,307,596, 320,000 247,676.66 406,121.34 Rhode-Island 28.800) 216,684. 48,000 67,847.95 40,491.05 Connecticut 133,200 747,196 222,000. 131,577.83. 242,020.17 New-York 54,000, 373,598 90,000 39,064.1 147,734.9 New-Jersey 66,000 485,679| 110,000 102,004.95 140,824.55 Pennsylvania 180,000 1,120,794 300,000 346,632.98. 213,764.02 Delaware 16,800. 112,085 28,000 56,042.5 Maryland 132,000. 933,996 220,000 89,302.11 377,695.89 Virginia 174,000 1,307,594. 290,000 115,103.53, 538,693.47 North-Carolina 88,800) 622,677|| 148,000 311,338.5 South-Carolina 72,000 373,598 120,000 344,301.57 Georgia 14,400 24,905 24,000 12,452.5 1,200,000-8,000,000|2,000,000||1,486,511.712,670,987.89 Resolved, That Congress agree to the said report. APRIL 28, 1784. Congress resumed the consideration of the report of the grand committee, appointed to report the arrearages of interest, &c., so far as respected facilities, and the paragraph being amended to read as follows— It remained lastly to consider, whether no facilities might be given to the payment of these sums by the several states The committee observed that of the purposes for which money is wanting, about three-fourths can be answered by nothing but money itself; but that the other fourth, consisting of interest on our domestic debt, may be effected by procuring a discount of the demand in the hands of the holders; an operation which will be shorter, and less impoverishing to the state. And however, in times of greater plenty, the accuracy of fiscal administration might require all trans- actions to be in actual money, at the treasury itself; yet till our constituents shall have some respite from their late difficulties, it behoves us to prefer their easement. The committee are therefore of opinion that the several legislatures may be admitted so to mode
Page 249
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 249 the collection of the sums now called for, that the three-fourths of of any sum being paid in actual money, the other fourth may be discharged by procuring discounts of interest with our domestie creditors; always taking care that the collection of money shall proceed at least in threefold proportion with the operations of dis- count. And to ascertain the evidences of discount which shall be receivable in lieu of money, the holders of loan office certificates shall be at liberty to carry them to the office from which they issued; and the holders of certificates of other liquidated debts of the United States, to carry the same to the loan office of that State wherein the debt was contracted, and to have the interest due thereon settled and certified to the last day of the year 1782; for which interest the loan officer shall give a certificate in such form, and under such cau- tions and instructions, as the superintendant of finance shall transmit to him; which certificates of interest being parted with by the holder of the principal, shall be deemed evidence that he has received satisfaction for the same, and therefore shall be receivable from the bearer, within the same State, and from the State when obtained from the bearer, in lieu of money in the proportion before stated; which payment in certificates by the State into the public treasury, in the proportion that each State avails itself of the facilities, shall be considered as a discharge of so much of the interest due upon the domestic debt, so that the three-fourths or greater proportion, if any State should not avail itself of the facilities in the degree hereby admitted, paid in money at the same time shall be applied, according to the above statement, giving preference to the discharge of the expences of internal government, and the interest due upon the foreign debt. And where loan office certificates, issued after the first day of March, 1778, shall be presented to the loan officer, they shall be reduced to their specie value, according to the resolutions of Congress of June 28, 1780, that specie value expressed on some part of the certificate, and the interest thereon settled and certified as in other cases. Resolved, That Congress agree to the same. April 29, 1784. Congress took into consideration the report of a grand committee, to whom was referred the report of a committee on the subject of western territory, and thereupon came to the following resolution— Congress by their resolution of September 6, 1780, having thought it adviseable to press upon the States having claims to the Western country, a liberal surrender of a portion of their territorial claims, by that of the 10th of October, in the same year, having fixed con- ditions to which the union should be bound, on receiving such cessions. And having again proposed the same subject to those States in their address of April 18th, 1783, wherein, stating the national debt, and expressing their reliance for its discharge, on the prospect of vacant territory, in aid of other resources, they, for that
Page 250
250 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. purpose, as well as to obviate disagreeable controversies and confu- sions, included in the same recommendation, a renewal of those of September the 6th, and of October the 10th, 1780; which several recommendations have not yet been fully complied with : Resolved, That the same subject be again presented to the attention of the said States, that they be urged to consider that the war bein now brought to a happy termination by the personal services of our soldiers, the supplies of property by our citizens, and loans of money from them as well as from foreigners; these several creditors have a right to expect that funds shall be provided on which they may rely for indemnification; that Congress still consider vacant territory as an important resource: And that therefore the said States be earnestly pressed, by immediate and liberal cessions, to forward these necessary ends, and to promote the harmony of the union. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. AN ALPHABETICAL LIST OF ALL PERSONS ATTAINTED OF HIGH TREASON, IN PURsuANCE OF THE TREASON LAWS FOR THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA. A. Allen, John, died before the day limited for the surrender. Allen, Andrew, late member of Congress. Allen, William, junior, late Capt. & Lt. Colo. in American Army, "Austin, William, yeoman, late keeper of the New Jersey Ferry. Armstrong, Francis, of Sadsbury in Chester Co., dealer in horses. Armstrong, William, of do. do. shoemaker. Airey, John, late of the Post Office, Phila. Ashbridge, Aaron, waterman, Chester, discharged. Andrews, William, fuller, Darby, Chester County. Anderson, William, labourer, of Ridley, Chester County. Allen, James, surrendered & died. Allen, Isaac, atty. at law, Trenton, New Jersey. Adams, John, silk weaver, Northern Liberties. Arthur, Peter, house carpenter, Southwark. Aspden, Matthias, of Philada. City, merch. Arnold, Benedict, Majr. Genl., &Ca. Anderson, Stephen, yeoman, late of New Garden, Chester Co. Adams, Jonathan, Snuffmaker, Germantown Township, Philada. Co. Adams, Susannah, his wife. B. Biddle, John, late of Berks Co., yeoman. Bartram, Alexander, of Philada., merchant. Biles, Samuel, late Sheriff, Bucks Co. Bulla, Thomas, of Chester Co., husbdm. ” * Braken, James, of Tyrone Township, York County. Brookes, Bowyer, surrendered & discharged. Badge, Thomas, of Philada., tallow chandler. Bulla, John, surrendered & discharged.
Page 251
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 251 Bray, John, schoolmaster, late Constable, Philada. City. Bramhall, Thomas, Button maker, Philada. _* Brown, John, surrendered & discharged. Buckingham, John, labourer, Passyunk. Bolton, Joseph, tried & acquitted. *Butcher, John, husbdm., Blockley, Philada. Co. Bryan, Joel, Haycock, Bucks co., surrendered. Burns, George, weaver, Plumstead, Bucks co. Balderstone, Mordecai, surrendered & discharged. Brown, WRliam, Cooper, Solebury, Bucks Co. Burrows, Samuel, labourer, Upper Wakefield, Bucks Co. Boatman, George, labourer, Upper Wakefield, do. Brown, Benjamin, of Falls Township, Bucks Co., husbdm. Brown, John, a carpenter, Bristol, surrendered & discharged. Briggs, George, do. Bartow, Thomas, do. Bean, Jesse, do. Buffington, Jacob, Carpenter, West Bradford, Chester Co. Bullock, Isaac, labourer, Concord, Chester. Burnett, John, surrendered & discharged. Bell, Samuel, surrendered & discharged. Burk, Isaac, labourer, Providence, Chester County. Burns, Thomas, do. Bell, William, labourer, Newton, Chester Co. Brown, James, of Haverford, Chester Co., wheelwright. Burd, John, Butcher, Philada. Burr, Hudson, hatter, Philada. Burkett, John, waterman, do. Burk, John, Taylor, of the Manor of Moreland, Philada. Co. Burge, David, blacksmith, Solebury, Bucks Co. Barrow, Samuel, of Barre, Bedford Co., yeoman. Bartlett, John, late Clerk in the Custom House, Philada. Booth, Benjamin, of Philada., mercht. Bond, Phineas, atty. at law, Philada. Brown, George, labourer, Buckingham, Bucks Co. Boyer, Jacob, yeoman, Donnegal, Lancaster Co. Bare, Abraham, yeoman, Earle Township, Lancaster Co. Buffington, Joshua, tried & acquitted. Buffington, Richard, senior, of East Bradford, Chester Co., yeoman. Blackford, Martin, of Warrington, York Co., yeoman. C. Carlisle, Abraham, house carpenter, City Philada. Clifton, Alfred, Gentlem., City Philada. Coxe, Tench, surrendered & discharged. Clifton, William, do. Compton, William, do. Corry, Robert, do. Christy, William, mason, of Horseham, Philada. County. Carver, Nathan, wheelwright, Upper Dublin, Philada. Cunrad, Robert, mason, Norrington, Philada. Co. Coxe, Daniel, late of Trenton in New Jersey. Chalmers, James, late of Philada, & late of Kent county, Maryland. Couper, Robert, trader, of Philada. City. Chevalier, John, surrendered & discharged. Club, James, mariner, City of Philada. Cunningham, John, surr'd & disch'd.
Page 252
252 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Curry, Ross, Gentl’n, late Lt. in the American army, late of Philad. City. Craig, James, surrend'd & disch'd. Connor, Michael, merch’t, Philada. Colvy, Robert, Jun’r, sadler, Buckingham, Bucks County. Cablo, John, surrend’d & disch’d. Canby, Joseph, labourer, Upper Wakef'd, Bucks. Canby, Thomas, blacksmith, do. Campbell, Arthur, labourer, Bristol. Chapman, Samuel, tried & acq'd. Chapman, Amos, husbdm., Wright's Town Township, Bucks County. Chapman, Abraham, Cooper, of do. do. Chapman, David, miller, of do' do. Clark, Abraham, surr'd & disch’d. Chypher, Jacob, miller, Tredyffrin, Chester Co. Caldwell, William, husbdm., of Darby, Chester Co. Clark, William, labourer, Providence Chester Co. Crickley, Michael, labourer, of Haverford, Chester Co. Cuslan, William, labourer of East Pennsborough, Cumb'd Co. Croghan, George, surrend'd & disch'd. Colston, John, stocking weaver, Philada. Comely, Joseph, yeoman, of Manor of Moreland, Philad. Co. Campbell, John, yeoman, Emmerson's Walley, Cumberl’d Co. Campbell, William, do. do. do. Campbell, Peter, Gentl’n, of Trenton, in New Jersey. Clark, John, late Sheriff's Clerk, North'n Liberties. - Crockson, Dennis, lumber merch’t, Southwark, (not attainted,) discharged by Proclamation of Council, 1779. Corker, William, Cooper, Northern Liberties. Corbet, Alexander, yeoman, of Wakefield, Bucks County. D. Duché, Jacob, junior, late of Philada. City. Deshong, Peter, tried & acquitted. Dawson, David, of Chester Co., husbandman. - Delaplain, James, surr'd & disch'd. Davis, James, do. Davis, Benjamin, hatter, Philada. Dover, Robert, surr'd & disch'd. Doan, Joseph, labourer, Plumstead, Bucks Co. Dennis, Henry, Shipwright, Solebury, Bucks Co. Dennis, John, wheelwright, do. Doble, Joseph, of Falls Township, Bucks Co., husbandman. De Normandie, Andrew, Doct’r, Bristol. De Normandie, William, labourer, do. Davis, William, tried & acq'd. Davis, George, Springf'd, Chester Co., husbdum. Dunn, William, labourer, Providence, Chester Co. Dunn, George, surr'd & disch'd. Dunn, Malin, Taylor, Providence, Chester Co. Dunn, George, do. do. Dennis, John, Joiner, Richland, Bucks Co. Delong, James, yeoman, Emmerson's Walley, Cumb'd Co. - Dolston, Isaac, yeoman, of Wyoming Township, North'd Co. Dolston, Matthew, do. do. Dolston, Isaac, Jun'r, do. do.
Page 253
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 258 E. Evans, Abel, Esqr., atty. at law, Philada. * Eve, Oswald, of the North'n Liberties. Evans, Israel, smith, Upper Dublin, Philada. Evans, William, carpenter, Norrington, Philada. County. Evans, Joel, mercht., City Philada. Easton, Dennis, labourer, Buckingham, Bucks Co. Ellwood, John, of Bristol, tried, convicted, under sentence of death, & pardoned July 15th, 1789, by Council. Edwards, Joseph, surr'd & disch'd. Effinger, Henry, Jun’r, do. Elliott, Matthew, Ind'n Trader, of Westm'd Co. Evans, William, Carpenter, Philada. Evans, John, do. do Elliott, Andrew, of New York. Ensor, George, Cooper, Southwark. Eddy, Charles, Ironmonger, of Philada. City. Eddy, Thomas, do. do. Erwin, Edward, or Irwin, of Rye Township, Cumb'd Co. F. Fouts, Christian, Lanc'r County, late Lt. Colo. of Militia. Ferguson, Hugh Henry, Estate of Graeme park yested by law in his wife. Fisher, Coleman, son of William Fisher, Esqr. of Philada. Fisher, James, surr'd & disch'd. Fegan, Lawrence, Innkeeper, North'n Liberties. Fell, William, weaver, Buckingham, Bucks Co. Featherby, Thomas, miller, of Solebury, Bucks Co. Falkenston, Abraham, labourer, Providence, Chester County. Fursuer, Andrew, labourer, of Allen Township, Cumb'd Co. Fields, George, yeoman, Wioming Township, North'd Co. Fields, Daniel, do. do. Fields, Gilbert, do. do. Furner, Morris, do. do. Furner, Edward, do. do. Falkenstone, Jacob, yeoman, of Passyunk, Philada. County. Fleming, Low, yeoman, Mount Bethel, North'd Co. Fox, John, cutler, of Philada. City. Fox, Joseph, blacksmith, of do. Fairland Samuel, yeoman, of Chester Borough. Fincher, Benjamin, yeoman, of New Garden, Chester Co. G. Galloway, Joseph, late member of Congress. Garrigues, Samuel, the elder, tried & acquitted. Griffith, Evan, of York Co., husbandman. Green, Isaac, Jun’r, East Caln, Chester Co., husb'n, sentenced & pardoned by Council, July 5th, 1781, if he went without Bo. on B. the Frigate - Trumbull for the war, & serve throughout; sentenced at Philada., July 17th, 1781, prays a pardon without the above condition, dismissed. Garrigues, Samuel, Jr., surr. & disch. Gibbs, Benjamin, do. - Gregson, James, do. Gregory, David, mariner, Southwark. Gilmore, James, of Falls Township, Bucks Co., husbandman. -
Page 254
254 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. * * Gosling, John, surr'd & disch'd. Good, George, labourer, Providence, Chester Co. Grissel, Edward, convicted & pardoned by Council, July 8th, 1780. Gill, Joseph, malster, Chester Township. - Gorman, James, surr'd & disch'd. Gorman, Enoch, do. Girty, Simon, Indian Interpreter, of Westm'd Co. Girty, James, labourer, do Green, Thomas, yeoman, Hatfield, Philada. Co. Gibson, Edward, yeoman, Emmerson's Walley, Cumb'd Co. Greswold, Joseph, distiller, North'n Liberties. Gordon, Thomas, yeoman, of Oxford, Philada. Co. Givin, Hugh, labourer, Tyrone, Cumb'd Co. Gordon, Henry or Harry, military officer in the British service, late of Kennet, Chester Co. H. Hicks, Gilbert, of Bucks County, yeoman. Hook, Christian, atty., City Philada. Hanlon, Edward, cooper & vintner, in City Philada. Hovendon, Richard, Newtown Township, Bucks Co., trader. Holder, John, tried & acq’d. Holder, Jacob, of North'n Co., labourer. Holder, George. do. do. pardoned by Council, June 7, 1779. Holsinger, Ingelholt, of Lancaster County, husbdm'n. Humphreys, James, sen’r, surr'd & discharged. Humphrey, James, jun’r, printer, Philada. City. Hart, John, surr'd & disch'd. Hart, Chamless, do. Howard, Peter, do. Hathe, Andrew tried & acquitted. Huntsman, John, do. Hurst, Timothy, of Chester Co., Gentl'n. Hales, John, stable keeper, Philada. Henderson, John, marine, Philada. Henry, Hugh, Ign's Bill & discharged. Hill, John, surr'd & disch’d. Howel, John, labourer, Solebury, Bucks Co. Hendrickson, Jeremiah, labourer, Solebury, Bucks Co. Harvey, John, labourer, Upper Wakefield, Bucks Co. Hill, Henry, of Falls Township, Bucks County, husbdm. Hains, Caleb, weaver, Goshen, Chester Co. Hart, Samuel, labourer, East Bradford, Chester Co. Hartnet, James, tried & acquitted. Henry, William, Taylor, Providence, Chester Co. Hardy, Peter, husbdm., of Mount Bethel, North'd Co. Hughes, Uriah, surr'd & disch'd. Hutchinson, Isaac, New Britain, Bucks County, yeoman. - Hutchinson, Thomas, do. do. Hutchinson, Marmaduke, do. do. Hare, Jacob, yeoman, Barree, Bedford Co. - Hare, Michael, do. do Hill, Patrick, yeoman, of Wyoming Township, North'd Co. Hutchinson, John, yeoman, Kingsessing, Philada. Co. Harvey, Samuel, yeoman, Upper Wakefield, Bucks Co. Housecker, Nicholas, yeoman, Lebanon, Lancaster Co. Hughes, Thomas, yeoman, Augusta, North'd County.
Page 255
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 255 I and J. r Iredale, Robert, Jun'r, of Horsham Township, Philada. Co., laborer. Iredale, Thomas, do. do. do. James, Jacob, of Goshen, Chester Co., Innkeeper. James, Abel, surr'd & disch'd. Iredale, Abraham, surveyor, Philada. Co., (Horsham.) Irwin, Alexander, of East Pennsborough, Cumb'd Co., Carter. Inglis, James, trader, City of Philada. Johnston, John, Coachmaker, Philada. Irwin, Dunning, Trader, Philada. Jefferies, Samuel, surr'd & discharged. Jounkin, Henry, Trader, Philada. James, Benjamin, Cooper, Concord, Chester. Ink, John, husbdm., of Mount Bethel, North'd County. Irwin, Francis, Carter, East Pennsborough, Cumb'd Co. Jones, David, Tavern keeper & Constable, Philada., surrend'd. Jones, Edward, Hilton, Bucks Co., yeoman. Jones, Jonathan, do. do. Jones, Jesse, Bensalem, Bucks Co., labourer. Jones, Daniel, yeoman, Moreland Township, Philada. Co. Jones, Holton, Hatter, of Germantown Township, Philada. Co. Jones, Hugh, of Cushickton Settlement, North'd Co., yeoman. Janes, Daniel, yeoman, of Moreland, in Philada. County. Jackson, John, East Marlbourough, Chester County, yeoman. K. Keen, Reynold, pardoned by act of Assembly. Kercker, Lodowick, surr'd & disch'd. Knight, Joshua, of Abingdon Township, Philada. Co., Blacksmith. Knight, John, Tanner. Knight, Isaac, surr'd & disch'd. Koster, Samuel, of North'n Co., husbdn. Koster, John, do. do. Knight, Nicholas, lime burner, Plymouth, Philada. Co. Kennett, Levy, labourer, Solebury, Bucks Co. Kennedy, William, labourer, of Springfield, Chester Co. Kissack, Robert, of Haverford, Chester Co. Kilby, Lawrence, Cooper, East Pennsborough, Cumb'd Co. Kennard, Joseph, labourer, Plumstead, Bucks Co. King, Joseph, yeoman, Path Walley, Cumb'd Co. Kisselman, Frederick, surrend’d & disch'd. Knapper, George, Baker, of Philada. City. Kearsley, John, Gentl’n, son of Dr. Kearsley, of North'n Liberties. Kennard, Joseph, labourer, Plumstead, Bucks County. L. Lievesly, Thomas, surr'd & disch'd. Love, William, late of The Township of York, York Co. Lile, Henry, surr'd & disch'd. Lile, John, do. Lile, Robert, do. t Lewis, Curtis, Blacksmith, East Caln., Chester Co. Loosly, Robert, shoemaker, Philada. -
Page 256
256 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. w Lindon, Hugh, schoolmaster, Buckingham, Bucks Co. Lindy, Uriah, labourer, Solebury, Bucks Co. Long, Abraham, husbdn., of Mount Bethel, Northampton Co. Lawson, James, husbdn., of Lower Smithfield, North'n Co. Loughborough, John, blacksmith, of Moreland Manor, Philada. Co. - Little, James, yeoman, of Emmerson's Walley, Cumb'd Co., Land, Robert, late Justice of the Peace, Cushickton Settlem't, North'n Co. Land, John of same place. Lightfoot, Thomas, surr'd & disch'd. Lindsay, Samuel, yeoman, of Guilford Township, Cumb'd Co. M. Miler, Peter, tried & acquitted. Marchinton, Philip, Trader, City Pa. Moland, William, surr'd. McHugh, Matthew, surr'd & disch'd. McCullough, Kenneth, late of Philada., yeoman. Meng, Melchior, surr'd & disch'd. Meng, Jacob, tried & acquitted. McMurtrie, William, surr'd & disch'd. Morris, William, mariner, late Constable City Philada. Mayer, Jacob, surr'd & disch'd. Moran, Charles, Shipwright, Southw’k. Michenor, Isaac, labourer, Plumsted, Bucks Co. McMullan, James, laborer, Solebury, Bucks Co. Martin, Thomas, Cooper, Falls Township, Bucks Co. Moulder, John, Waterman, Chichester, Chester Co. Malin, Joseph, tried & acq’d. Malin, Elisha, Joiner, East Whitehead, Chester Co., pardoned. Millson, John, (say William,) taylor, Concord, Chester. Madock, William, Tavern keeper, Providence, Chester Co. Malin, James, surr'd & disch’d. Miller, Benjamin, do. Musgrove, John, Trader, Darby, Chester Co. " McClarin, James, labourer, Springfield, Chester Co. Maris, David, Taylor, Newton, Chester Co. Morgan, Moses, husbdn., of Mount Bethel, North'n Co. Mars, Lawrence, do. do. do. McMichael, Edwd., husbdn, of Lower Smithf'd, North'n Co. McCart, John, distiller & labourer, East Pennsborough, Cumb'd Co McKee, Alexander, Indian Trader of Westm'd Co. Marshall, William, surr'd & disch'd. Morris, Enoch, wheelwright, Hilltown, Bucks Co. Magee, Henry, surr'd & disch'd by name of H. Maag. McNeal, Dominick, yeoman, Tuscarora, Cumb'd Co. Mackinett, John, Merch’t, North'n Liberties. Mackiness, Thomas, Trader, Northern Liberties. Meredith, John, labourer, of New Brittain, Bucks Co. McDonald, Alexander, yeoman, Rye Township, Cumb'd Co. McKenzie, Kenneth, do. do, do. McPherson, William, blacksmith, Tyrone, Cumb'd Co. N. Nixon, Robert, yeoman, of Lock Township, Cumb'd Co.
Page 257
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 257 O. Oswalt, Henry, house carpenter, Northampton Co. O’Kain, Hugh, labourer, Springfield, Chester Co. O'Kain, Darby, do. do. do. Overholt, John, of Tinicum Township, Bucks Co. P. Potts, John, of Philada. County, yeoman. Pugh, James, of North'n Co., husbdm. Pugh, Hugh, of do. do. Price, William, of Philada., merch’t. Parrock, John, of Philada., yeoman. Potts, David, surr'd & disch'd. Pastorius, Abraham, of Germantown Township, Tanner. Parker, John, labourer, Plymouth, Philada. County. Pyle, Caleb, surr'd & disch'd. Pike, John, do. Palmer, John, do. Price, Peter, lab’r, Middleton, Bucks Co. Poor, John, tried & acquitted. Park, Abijah, East Bradford, Chester Co. Proctor, Joshua, labourer, Newton, Chester Co. Palmer, Richard, surr'd & disch'd. Perlie, Peter, yeoman, Durham, Bucks Co. Patterson, John, surr'd & disch'd." Piles, William, mariner, of Philada. City. Proctor, Joshua, yeoman, New Garden, Chester Co. Paxton, Joseph, of Middleton, Bucks Co., yeoman. R. Rankin, James, of York County, yeoman. Roberts, John, of Lower Merion, Philada. Co., miller. Rankin, John, of York Co., husbandman. Roberts, Owen, of North'n Co., Saw mill man. Reine, George, of Earl Township, Lanc'r Co., miller. Reine, John, of Lanc'r Co., husbdn. Ross, Malcolm, of Philada. Roker, Thomas, of do. Riddle, James, surr'd & disch’d. Robeson, Peter, do. Robeson, Jonathan, jr., son of Jona. Robeson, of Whitemarsh, Phila. Co. Roberts, John, Smith, of Upper Dublin, Philada. Co. Richardson, Jacob, surr'd & disch'd. Romigh, Joseph, of North'n County, yeoman. Rodgers, John, labourer, Plumsted, Bucks Co. Rickey, Alexander, labourer, of Lower Wakefield, Bucks Co. Register, Daniel, surr'd & disch'd. - Rymel, John, husbdn., of Mount Bethel Township, North'n Co. Ross, William, cordwainer, in Walnut street, Philada. Russel, Matthew, yeoman, of Wyom’g Township, North'd Co. Rhodden, William, mariner, Southwark. Roberts, Nathan, yeoman, Bristol Township, Philada. County. Robeson, John, cordwainer, Whitpaine Township, Philada. Co. Rundle, Daniel, surr'd & disch'd.
End of Section 82. Continue to next section or 
Section 83
Page 258
258 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. * Reid, John, military officer in British service, late of Tinicum, Bucks Co. Ross, Alexander, yeoman, of The Township of Pitt, Westm'd Co. Rankin, William, yeoman, late a Colo. of militia, Newberry, York Co. S. Shoemaker, Samuel, late Alderman of The City of Philada. Story, Enoch, merch’t, City Philada. Stephenson, James, Baker, in Philada. Smith, John, late guager port of Philada." Skyles, Henry, of Chester County, husbdn. - Swanwick, John, late of the Custom House, Phila., & late of Chester Co. Sutton, Joseph, of North'n Co., husbandman. Sanderson, Francis, surr'd & disch’d. Sproat, David. of Philada. Story, Thomas, surr'd & disch'd. Stephens, James, tried & acquitted. Stedman, Charles, junior, Esqr., att'y, Philada. Shepherd, John, stable keeper, Philada. Sutter, Peter, surr'd & disch'd. Saur, Christopher, junr., of German Town Township, printer. Saur, Christopher, senior, do. do. Shoemaker, Joseph, surr'd & disch'd. Supplee. Enoch, farmer, Norrington, Philada. Co. Styger, Stephen, surr'd & disch'd. Stiles, Edward, do. Swanwick, Richard, of Chester Co., late of the Custom House, Philada. Skyles, Henry. of Lancaster Co., yeoman. Smyther, James, Engraver, City Phila. Stansbury, Joseph, surr'd & disch'd. Spangler, George. Trader, Philada. Saur, Peter, Printer, Germantown Township, Philada. Co. Styer, Stephen, surr'd & disch'd. Skelton, William, labourer, Solebury, Bucks Co. Stackhouse, John, husbdn., of Falls Township, Bucks Co. * Stackhouse, John, husbandman, Bristol. Swift, Joseph, Gent., late Lt. in the king's army, of Bensalem, Bucks Co. Stroud, William, surr'd & disch’d. Supplee, John, Ign's Bill & disch'd. Smith, William, surr'd & disch'd. Spering, John, shoemaker, Eastman, North'n Co. Stackhouse, John, husbandman, of Mount Bethel, North'n Co. Stackhouse, Robert, do. do. do. Snyder, Peter, do. do. do. Smith, Alexander, Blacksmith, Philada. Smith, William Drewitt, druggist, Philada. Stedman, Alexander, Esq., Gentl’n, of Philada. Silkod, Thomas, yeoman, Hatfield, Philada. Co. Shaw, Jonathan, late Ensign Cont'l Army, of Bucks Co. Smith, Andrew, surr'd & disch'd. Stillwell, John, yeoman, Tuscarora, Cumb'd Co. Starks, Henry, yeoman, Wyoming Township, North'd Co. Steininger, Henry, (twice proclaimed,) yeoman, Lynn Town'p, North'd Co. Sinclair, George, tanner, of West Caln., Chester Co. Simpson, William, Blacksmith, Tyrone, Cumb'd Co.
Page 259
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. º T. Thomas, Arthur, Breeches maker, City Philada. Thomas, Joseph, late sub Sheriff, Chester County. Thomas, William, of North'd Co., husbandman. Thomas, Joshua, of do. do. Titley, Benjamin, surr'd & disch'd. Town, Benjamin, do. * Taylor, William, do. Thomas, Arthur, Jun’r, hatter, Philada. City. Taylor, William, shipwright, North'n Liberties. Tolly, John, mariner, Southwark. Thompson, David, do. Taylor, John, Chichester, Chester Co., Tavern keeper. Talbot, John, wheelwright, Chichester, Chester Co. Trego, Jacob, Blacksmith, Goshen, Chester Co. Thompson, Joshua, Taylor, do. do. Taylor. John, Grazier, Ridley, Chester County. Todd, Cortland, miller, Solebury, Bucks Co. Taylor, Isaac, yeoman, Whitpaine Township, Philada. Co. Talbert, James, trader, of Philada. City. Thomas, Evan, labourer, Hilltown, Bucks Co. Turner, John, merch’t, City of Philada. W. Vernon, Nathaniel, late Sheriff Chester County. Vernon, Nathaniel, Jun’r, laborer, Chester County. Werner, Frederick, of Philada., yeoman. Vernon, Gideon, husbdn., Providence, Chester Co. Vernor, Elias, surr'd & disch'd. Vaughan, John, husbdn., of Mount Bethel, North'n Co. Voght, Christian, apothecary, of Lancaster Borough. W. Walton, Albinson "or Albertson, of Byberry, Philada. Co., (quere, Rolls Office,) pardoned by Act of Assembly in case he surrendered. Willet, Walter, late of Southampton Township, Bucks Co. Wilson, John, of Huntingdon Township, York Co. Worman, Michael, of Lancaster Co., innkeeper, pardoned. Wharton, Carpenter, surr'd & disch'd. Wharton, Isaac, do. Welflang, Henry, tried & convicted, shoemaker, Philada. Williams, William, surr'd & disch'd. Williams, Ephraim, labourer, Solebury, Bucks Co. Wilson, Christopher, husbdn., Ridley, Chester Co., tried & convicted. Worral, Isaiah, miller, Springfield, Chester Co. Wood, Moses, husbdn., of Mount Bethel, North'n Co. William, William, miller, of York County. Willis, Richard, gunsmith of York County. Willson, John, of Bucks County, convicted but pardoned by Council, July 8th, 1780. White, Robert, merch’t & mariner, Philada. Warrell, James, Brewer, Philada. Wright, William, dyer of Path Valley, Cumb'd Co. Wiston, Richard, yeoman, of Franks Town, Bedford Co.
Page 260
260 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. - Weitner, George, yeoman, Wyoming, North'd Co. Wertman, Philip, George, (this name twice proclaimed,) yeoman, Lynn Township, North'n Co. Williams, Daniel, of Horsham Township, Philada. Walker, Isaac, yeoman, of Lackawack Settlement, North'n Co. Warder, John of Philada. City, merch’t, son of Jeremiah, Dec’d. Waln, James, yeoman, Northern Liberties. Worthington, Joseph, labourer, (son of Rich'd Worthington,) Buckingham, Bucks County. West, William, junior, surr'd & disch'd. Wright, John, Hatf'd, Philada. Co. Wright, Jonathan, of Hatfield, Philada. Co., yeoman. Y. Young, John, late of Graeme Parke, Gentleman. Yeldall, Anthony, surr'd & disch'd. Young, David, husbdn., of Mount Bethel, North'n Co. York, Thomas, sailmaker of Philada. City. Yeldall, Anthony, Philada., druggist, did not surrender on 2d procl'n. I John Morris, Esquire, Master of the Rolls for the State of Pennsylvania, Do Certify that the within List of Names is a true Extract from the several Proclamations issued by the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council of the said State, Summoning them respectively to appear and answer to certain Charges of High " Treason. . In Testimony whereof, I have hereto set my Hand & the Seal of my said Office at Philadelphia, the 28th Day of November, A. D. 1783. [SEAL.] - JOHN MORRIS, M. R. Indorsed, - 23d Feb., 1784. Alphabetical list of all the persons attainted of High Treason, with a state of such as have been acquitted by the Supreme Court. There were 10 proclamations of last Council, in 1781, for Wm. Rankin. There was a John Taylor of Chester County, one of the within, (quere, which,) pardoned by Council, May 30th, 1782, provided he would take the Oath or affirmation of allegiance to the State, and give security, as specified, for his behaviour during the war.” CouncIL TO ARTHUR ST. CLAIR, &c., 1784. Circular. Si Philadelphia, April 29*, 1784. Ir, Council, upon Considering the exhausted state of the Treasury, and that the public exigencies were such as to call for an immediate supply they have accordingly directed me to call upon you in the most pressing manner to expedite the payment of the money now in your * See letter of Governor of South Carolina, asking for such a list, p. 79.
Page 261
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 261 hands, and to use your utmost endeavours in the Collection of such as may be outstanding—Council depend much on your exertions in this business. Indorsed, 1784, April 29th. To Arthur S Clair, James Mease & Alex' Boyd—& Sharp Delany. I am, sir, &c. MESSRs. HILLEGAS AND FRANCIS To CouncIL, 1784. To his Excellency the President and the Honorable the Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. In Pursuance of your appointment, We have obtained from the Surveyor General a draft of the Ground in which the Barracks in the Northern Liberties are erected, and attended a Surveyor to run the lines and examine the buildings; But as yet we have not pro- ceeded so far as to form the several sub-divisions of that Ground, so that it might be disposed of to the greatest advantage. That it is at present the opinion of divers Inhabitants, as well as our own, That it would be most beneficial before the Ground is sub- divided, That all the buildings, except the large House in the middle of the west front, be disposed of in parcels of one or more Houses, obliging the purchasers to pull them down within a limitcd time, & remove the materials—for the following Reasons:— 1“—The Vacant Lots will probably sell much higher than they would were these small buildings to remain, and consequently bo inhabited by persons most of whom would not make the best of Neighbours. 277—The Roofs being put on about 26 years ago, and the Shin- gles, in a few years more, consequently will be rotten, if they are not so in some degree already, being on a very low pitch. 3*—The Bricks, at the present high price, will probably sell for as much as new may hereafter be bought for, with the expence of laying. 4*7–That when those buildings are disposed of and torn down, the Ground may be sub-divided to much greater advantage, a sthe lines will be unshackled, and no regard need be paid to the present partitions of the Houses, all of which are lathed and plaistered, except where the Chimneys are, and in a ruinous Condition, as well as the Floors, Window Cases, &c., &c. The Consideration of all which we submit to your Excellency and the Honorable the Executive Council. And waiting for your further Orders, We are, with the greatest esteem, Your most Obedient Servants, M HILLEGAS, TENCH FRANCIS. Philadelphia, April 29, 1784. Vol. X—12.
Page 262
262 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. - SEc'Y ARMSTRONG TO EPHRAIM DOUGLASS, 1784. Philad", April 30, 1784. Sir, I am directed by Council to inform you that they have received your Letter of the 10" Instant with the Inclosure, & observe with surprize that the Names of Arnold Porter as Inspector, & Lewis Deem & Charles Porter as Assistant Judges, are all of the same II andwriting. The Return also mentions the Wacancy being occa- sioned by dividing the Township of Manallin into three Townships; but it does not appear when or by what Authority the said Town- ship was divided. Council therefore desire, that you would, as soon as possible, transmit to this Office a List of the several Townships or Districts for choosing a Justice of the Peace. Council have also received a Return for Wharton Township, in Fayette County, mentioning a Vacancy, & signed with the Names of Thomas Ramsay, William McClellan & Moses Hall, all of which are of the same Handwriting also. Both these Returns are rejected. I. send up by General Nevill six Copies of a late Law for Justices of the Peace. I am, sir, with much respect, Your most obedient and very humble servant, JOHN ARMSTRONG, jr., Secº. Directed,—To Ephraim Douglass, Esq., Proth'y of Fayette. DoRSEY PENTECOST TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Washington County, May 2", 1784. Sir, This will be handed to your Excellency by Cap" Hughes & M" Morrison, Officers in late Ranging Washington Com’y. Your Ex- cellency will please to remember that Cap" Hughes was before your Board to settle the Recruiting accº, but, unfortunately, he had lost (or at least some of his Subalterns) some of their attestations, which they have not yet found, but hold Certificates from the Gentlemen who mustered the men, which I hope your Excellency will consider as sufficient. There was an Order from your board directing that Cap' Stokely, of the Westmoreland Rangers, should settle the accounts of both Comp"; in Consequence of which, Mº Morrison, then the com- manding Officer of the Washington Rangers, sent his accounts with me when last at Philadelphia, to deliver to the Captain, who was Expected down in Obedience to y Order; but he never ap-
Page 263
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 263 peared through the three months that I was in the City, and Conse- quently had to bring the accounts back unsettled. Mº Morrison now Expects to settle them himself, and I hope your Excellency will please to give Directions accordingly—permit me here to Tell you, that Mº Morrison is a Very Vigilant officer, and under the Character of an honest and upright man. Your Excellency will also please to remember, that I informed the Board that your Orders for discharging the Company of this County did not arrive to M' Morrison, until one month after the date or time the Compy, should have been discharged; but that on receiving the Orders they were immediately discharged; that during this Time, the Company did duty, and provisions were Issued as usual,—your Excellency and Council, on this representation, agreed to pay to the Comp'y and Contractor for the superfluous Time of Service. I only mention this Circumstance to refresh your Excel- lency's memory, and by refering [to] your minutes I presume it will be found; it is matter of fact which I hope your Excellency will recollect. I have the hon to be, with perfect Esteem & respect, Y' Excellency's most Obed", Very humb' Serv", DORSEY PENTECOST. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., Philadelphia. Hon" by Lieu' Morrison. PREs. OF CongBESs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Sir, I have the Honor to transmit to your Excellency an Act of Con- gress of the 27 of April,” being a Requisition for the purpose of dis- charging the Arrears of Interest due on the National Debt, &c. Also, an Act of Congress of the 29" of April, recommending to the States claiming Western Territory immediate and liberal Cessions thereof. I have the Honor to be, with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency's most Obedient and humble Sert., THOMAS MIFFLIN. Annapolis, May 6*, 1784. His Excellency President Dickinson. * See page 242-250.
End of Section 83. Continue to next section or 
Section 84
Page 264
264 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. JAMEs JACKS TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Sir i have observed that the new Commissions for the Magistrates, that Council have sent me in order to be recorded, differ very much from the old ones since the Revolution, the former specified a com- mission of the peace, Common pleas, and Orphans court, but the latter seems confined, some to the peace, and others to the common leas. p There are some Gentlemen here, that are of opinion, that notwith- standing the old Commission of the peace, is Expired agreeable to the Constitution, that they remain still a Justice of the Common pleas, untill such times as Council superseeds them, and that by virtue of their old Commission altho' the seven years is past, have a right to take acknowledgements of Deeds and sit as Judges in the Court of Common pleas—it seems to me that Council are of a different opinion by their sending several new commissions of the Common pleas to those who were Justices before these seven years past, I would therefore request you would lay the matter before Council, so that they would be pleased to send me their opinion concerning the premises in order that I may act agreeable to their direction. I am sir, with the greatest respect, your Excellencys most obedient humble servant. JAMES JACKS. Lancaster, May 7", 1784. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President of the State of - Pennsyl", Philadelphia. Indorsed, Letter from James Jacks, Recorder of Lancaster county. CHRISTOPHER HAYS TO PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Si Westmoreland County, 12* May, 1784. Ir, After my respectful compliments to your Excellency and Family, I would beg leave to observe something with regard to our Western Country. I am informed by good authority that Indians have killed two men about two weeks ago at or near Cross creek on the western extremity of this State. And at Kentucke they have killed, this last Spring and Winter about eighteen Persons. People seem to be uneasy that nothing appears to be doing with respect to a Treaty with the Savages :
Page 265
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 265, The late appointment of Lieutenant of the County of Fayette seems to give the well affected to this Government some umbrage 1 and I think very justly If those we have been contending with so long, and after having had so much trouble to support the Rights of Pennsylvania against a People yet enemies in their Hearts to the Government are to have their Lands Patented at ten shillings sterling §r Hundred acres and those who have been good subjects and have suffered for their attachment to the Government to pay at the rate of ten Pounds and they to rule over us into the Bargain, is extra- ordinary indeed! . Suppose no Person had contended for the rights of Pennsylvania in this quarter, and universal consent had been gained by Virginia, is it probable that you would have effected ample Justice to the State so readily? Seeing the manner faithful subjects of Pennsylvania are treated; would your Excellency wonder if they would be ready to join any party or new State faction that might offer? I am persuaded your Excellency must have had matters misrepresented; It cannot be your Excellency's wish to give the least offence to the good citizens of this Commonwealth. If men of Character and Circumstances; men who have borne the burthen thro’ the War are to be displaced from office and no reasons given, no Complaint, no hearing to Justify themselves, If there are, few indeed, I may say few that have any Reputation to lose will Care to accept of any office under the Government. My kind Compliments to General Ewing, General Irvine & Colº all. Am Sir with the highest respect, Your Excellencys most obedient Humble servant, CHRISTOPHER HAYS. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the State Pennsylvania. Hon" by Colº Edwa Cook. CoMMISSIONERS FOR TREATING witH INDIANS TO PRES. DICKINsoN, 1784. Sir, We beg leave to acknowledge the receipt of an official letter from your Excellency of the 29th of February last" informing us that the Supreme Executive Council “in pursuance of a Resolution of the “General Assembly of the twenty-fifth of last September had “appointed us) in conjunction with William Maclay, Esq.,) com- “missioners to hold a Treaty with the Indians claiming the unpur- “chased Territory within the acknowledged limits of this State for “the purpose of purchasing the same.” * Col. Rec., XIV., p. 40.
Page 266
266 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. vº vº ~~ Highly sensible of the honour conferred and the Trust reposed in us we should have embraced an earlier opportunity of returning our thanks to your Excellency and Council and of communicating with you upon the important business of our appointment, but circum- stances occurred soon after the receipt of your letter which made it absolutely necessary for Mº Maclay to visit his Family with whom he still remains, similar circumstances presented themselves to Col” Atlee since which until very lately we could not with propriety address you on this subject. Conformably to the Desire of Council as expressed in your Excel- lencys Letter, of our obtaining the fullest Information as soon as possible, of all the circumstances that will be connected with the execution of this trust, we beg leave first to observe, That the Indians to be treated with are the Six Nations, viz., the Mohawks, Oneidas, Tuscaroras, Onondagas, Cayugas, and Senecas, the Shawanees Indians and Delawares. With regard to the notices to be communicated to them and the persons by whom such notices shall be sent, we con- ceive there would be a great propriety, in these particulars, of acting in conjunction with the Continental commissioners. We beg leave to suggest that Samuel Weiser (whose Father was much esteemed by the Six Nations and formerly their Interpreter at , almost every Treaty for a series of years) is considered by us as a suitable person not only to serve the notices but to act as an Inter- preter, being fully acquainted with their Language & Customs from a long residence in their Country and also possessed of their confidence in so high a Degree as even to be adopted among them. In regard to the most suitable time & place of holding a Treaty you will permit us to observe we entertain an opinion that the power of fixing these will be exercized more properly by Congress through their Commissioners, but being informed that the continental com- missioners have not formed a Board at New York through the non- attendance of several of the members and that General Butler is now on his way to Congress to make report of the arrangements necessary to be made previous to a treaty, we cannot therefore until his Return or untill we shall hear from him give an answer on this Head with any possible precision, unless it shall be the opinion of your Excel- lency and Council that we are authorized to negociate a Bargain with the Indians for the unpurchased Lands within the State independent of the United States, in which case with Submission we conceive Tioga or Wyaloosing on the East Branch of Sasquehanna to be the most proper place to meet the Six Nations, at the same time we beg leave to remark that the Disposition of the Delawares at the Treaty of 1775 at Fort Pitt (and we are informed the same spirit still exists,) clearly evinces the necessity of having them present at any Bargain we shall make with the Six Nations, the Delawares at that Treaty having declared themselves independent of them, so that perhaps it may deem'd expedient to have another Council Fire
Page 267
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 267 kindled to the westward to accommodate the Delawares, Shawanese and such of the Western Tribes as may be in any wise interested. The provisions necessary to be laid in for the Indians during the Treaty we conceive should be at the expence of the Continent pro- vided we do not treat separately, and in respect to the form of the Treaty most proper to be adopted, we apprehend it eligible to pursue former precedents as near as possible many of which we are already possessed of, presents we presume are highly necessary a List of the articles together with an estimate of their prices we shall have the honour to lay before you hereafter. We will just add that sundry contingent expences will arise in transacting this Business, such as hiring Expresses, sending Messen- gers into the Indian Countries, procuring Strings & Belts of Wampum &c. We therefore submit to the Consideration of Council the sum which shall be deemed absolutely necessary for these purposes. After submitting another opinion whether a joint Commission should not be made out for us under the Seal signed by the president in Council we beg leave to subscribe ourselves, Your Excellency's most obedient and very humble servants. SAM. Jº ATLEE, FRANCIS JOHNSTON. May 17th, 1784. Thomas BARCLAY To PRE. DICKINson, 1784. Paris, 17 May, 1784. Sir, I do myself the Honor to inclose to Your Excellency the Arret of His Majesty's Council of State for Confirming the Privileges, which the Ports of Dunkirk & Marseilles have for some Time en- joyed, and for Establishing L’ Orient & Bayonne as free Ports. I beg leave to refer to the Arret, and remain with great Respect. Sir, Your Excellency's most obedient & most humble Serv", THOS. BARCLAY. Indorsed, 1784, August 19th. From Thomas Barclay, American Consul at Paris. - Directed - His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., Philadelphia.
End of Section 84. Continue to next section or 
Section 85
Page 268
268 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. CouncIL TO PROTHONOTARIES, 1784. Secretary's Office, Philadelphia, May 27th, 1784. Sir, By direction of Council I inclose you some printed forms of Returns of Elections for Justices of the Peace, which you will send to the several districts in your County. Council desire that no precept for holding a new Election in any district be issued until after a vacancy shall happen by the expira- tion of seven years from the date of the Commission, or otherwise as the law directs. You will therefore be pleased to give the neces- sary information on this head to the several districts. Council also wish you to be particularly attentive in the distribu- tion of the Laws and Minutes of the Gen. Assembly, as there are ; complaints from different parts of the state of neglect in this usiness. SALES OF BARRACKS, 1784.” No. 1. Christleib Bartling, - - - - 2625 15 2. John Keen, - - - - - 35 10 3. Matthew Clarkson, - - - - 33 4. Do. &g - - - - 33 5. Michael Groves, - - - - 32 6. John Keen, - - - - - 51 10 7. John Etridge, - - - - - 33 8. John Williams, - - - - - 33 10 9. Nicholas Ribell, - - - - 33 10. Dr. John Morgan, - - - - 30 10 11. William Williams, - - - 35 10 12. John Keen, - - - - - 40 13. Dr. John Morgan, - - - - 29 10 14. Do. 44 - - - - 29 15. Alex. Quarrier, - - - - - 39 16. Do. % - - - - - 47 17. Do. * - - - - - 33 18. Do. “ - - - - - 31 19. Do. {{ - - - - - 66 20. Peter Ozeas, - - - - - 82 21. Richard Marfwet, - - - - 33 22. Christian Copler, - - - - 32 10 23. George Forepaugh, - - - - 33 10 24. Do. “ - - - - - 33 10 25. Do. “ - - - - - 46 * There is a plan of these lots in the Secretary's office.
End of Section 85. Continue to next section or 
Section 86
Page 269
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 269 - 26. William Shaw, - " - - - 35 10 27. Dr. John Morgan, - - - - 33 10 28. Nich. Broom, - - - - - 35 29. Philip Pancake, - - - - 38 30. Do. tº - - - - - 36 10 - 3:1079 15 Nich. Ribell, 2 Neeessary's, - - 3 4 4.1082 19% DAVID RITTENHOUSE TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1784. - May 29th, 1784. Sir, Dr. Ewing and Captain Hutchins have both applied to me to have some money advanced in part of their pay as Commissioners for determining the Boundary between this State and Virginia, prepa- ratory to their leaving this City. I must request the approbation of Council for this purpose, unless Council should think proper to issue a regular warrant for the same, which will be most agreeable. I am, Sir, your most obed’t, Humble Servant, DAVID RITTENHOUSE, Treas. P. S. The sum required is £100 each. Directed, His Excellency, the President in Council. Read in Council and two orders granted. PROPOSALS FOR “LABELLING "THE CITY AND FOR A DIRECTORY, 1784. To His Excellency the President And the Honourable the Executive Council for the Commonwealth of Pensylvania. May it please your Excellency and Honours, The inclosed Plan having been shewen to a number of respectable Gentlemen and Merchants in this City and meeting with their Approbation; it is now humbly submitted to your Excellency and Honours: respectfully hoping it will merit your Protection and Authority to carry it into execution. * These lots were bounded by Second and Third Streets, in N. L., near Green St. 12+
End of Section 86. Continue to next section or 
Section 87
Page 270
- 270 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. To the Public in General, and the Citizens of Philadelphia in particular, - When the projector of any Scheme which he wishes, or intends for public benefit or utility, makes it public, it ought to be clear, distinct & unembarrassed, and the end proposed imediately obvious; the necessity should strike every man at the first View; the following proposals, it is humbly hoped, being possessed of and filled with this striking quality, must be evident to every good Citizen, and well wisher to this flourishing & opulent City. As uncertainty and perplexity are ever held bars in the way of Commerce, and impediments in Business; and as the present undi- rected, and confused situation of this great City is at this period, the proposers of the following plan, having maturely weigh'd, and digested their present scheme, but being unable on their own bottom to carry it into execution, on that full, extensive, and elegant plan, which it demands and with which it ought to be executed, and that, as no tax can be levied for the same, or any man obliged to pay his money without his consent, the proposers are under the necessity of applying to the public whose generosity, and protection, have ever been liberal on similar occasions. The proposers therefore wish to open a Subscription for the regu- lar labeling every Street, Lane, Court, Alley, and distinguishing every public Edifice, Building, Seminary & Meeting in the City, to be neatly and distinctly painted on boards, to be placed at a conve- nient, and proper height, in right angles, at each corner of every Street, Lane, Court, and Alley, and the houses to be regularly num- bered on the several doors, begining at the extremity of the City from North, to South, and from East, to West, proceeding numeri- cally through the whole. , The proposers farther intend, with the concurrence and assistance of the Gentlemen, Merchants, Traders & others, to publish an annual and General Register, and Directory, alphabetically & numerically digested, of the Residence, Business, or Occupation of every house- keeper, agreeable to their numbers throughout the whole, which will be a sure guide, and easy Pocket Companion to all strangers, and not without its imediate use, even to the oldest residents, and which will intirely do away that uncertainty, and frequent perplexity which at present so generally subsists, and is so much the complaint of all foreigners, and in a great measure prevent the trouble of enqui- rers, and the labour of instruction, in making ignorant persons understand the long directions, and all strangers would at one View find out their friends, acquaintance, and adress, by applying to the Book, under the Title of the Philadelphia Annual and General Directory. - Should the above Sketch merit the attention of the Public, the proposers further intend opening a public office of Register and
End of Section 87. Continue to next section or 
Section 88
Page 271
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 271 Intelligence, in one of the most public streets of the City, where on any persons removing from one place to another, they may imedi- ately apply, and have their residence register'd anew, and where one of the parties will constantly attend to give intelligence and infor- mation; and for the transacting all Business in the Register and Intelligence Office, on the same Plan, as in London, Dublin, &c.” Indorsed, June 1", 1784. Proposals for Labelling the City. Read in Council & rejected. DEPOSITIONS RESPECTING ESCAPE OF C. J. DE LONGSCHAMP, 1784. Pennsylvania, 88. Before the Honorable the Vice President of the State of Pennsyl- vania personally appeared William de Luce, late Captain in the American service, and being duly sworn deposeth and saith, That on Thursday last, he attended at the Chambers of the honorable George Bryan, Esquire, in order to give bail for the appearance of Mr. De Longchamps in case it should be necessary, where he under- stood the matter was to be determined at three o'clock the same day at the State house. That afterwards Mr. De Longchamps went * It is uncertain who was the author of the foregoing proposals as they bear neither name or date, being indorsed as “of June 1784, having been read in Council and rejected,” though they are not noticed on the minutes. As two Directories were printed the next year, 1785, it is probable one of the Compilers was the author. These were Francis White and Capt. John McPherson, both of whom were brokers, &c. They were the first Directo- ries printed in Philadelphia, and were perhaps in opposition to each other— the plans differ. “White's Philadelphia Directory” was an 8vo. pamphlet, containing 83 pages of about 45 names, arranged partially in alphabetical order, and con- tained also Miscellaneous matter, viz., lists of Public Offices, Ministers, Lawyers, Physicians, Stages and Packets, &c. Not having the advantage of numbers, the residents are said to live in such a street, between such and such streets. “Macpherson's Directory for the City and Suburbs, extending to Prime St. southward, Maiden St. northward, and 10th St. westward,” was a duodecimo pamphlet, containing 152 pages of about 40 names each. The editor took the pains to number the houses, even stables, and allowing for the spaces to be built up ; his plan was, to follow “the course of the sun from whence the numbers commence,” i.e. “the cross streets from Market beginning at the N. W. corner, and ending at the S. W. corner.” The names are more per- fectly arranged alphabetically than White's. There is one eccentricity about it, however; when he applied to a person who would not furnish the name (as was frequently the case) instead of the name he would set down opposite the number, the answer given, thus “what you please,” “I shall not give it,” “I won't tell you,” &c. Both compilers expected to issue annually. It is probable that Macpherson made the above application to Council. It is believed no other Directory was published till 1791, (when the city was perhaps regularly numbered) by C. Biddle.
Page 272
272 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. out with the sheriff, & went to his own house. this deponant joined Mr. Turner & Mr. McPherson and went up stairs of Mr. Long- champs house with them. That he saw the Sheriff in the room & immediately Mr. Longchamps came in, & the Sheriff asked him how Mrs. Longchamps did, and if he was ready to go to Goal with him : Mr. Longchamps said his wife was very sick, & asked the Sheriff for Leave to shift his cloathe that he might attend the trial in the afternoon properly. That the Sheriff gave him leave & desired him to make as much haste as possible that he might conduct him to Goal Immediately Mr. de Longchamp's went out & Mr. McPherson & Mr. Turner soon after followed him. This was about half an hour after twelve o'clock. That in a little time Mrs. De Longchámps came down & took up stairs a pitcher of water, and then came down again & took up stairs a piece of soap. That Mrs. De Longchamp came down a third time and sat in the room with the Sheriff & this deponant after some conversation about her health & her not being able to visit Mr. De Longchamp in Goal, the Sheriff took out his watch & desired Mrs. Longchamp's to go up & tell her husband that he could wait no longer—She went up & soon aftewards came down & said her husband was not up stairs—Immediately the Sheriff run up stairs & searched the house, & then went down stairs & desired people who were passing to help him to search the house & to dis- cover Mr. de Longchamps. That the Sheriff made enquries every where in the neighbourhood if any person had seen him (de Long- champs) go off. That the horse which was at the door when this deponant went in, was not there when the Sheriff came down after searching the house. That every part of the house was searched, & the Sheriff sent off for constables; and when they came, the Sheriff went to get his horse, & this deponent went off also. That this deponent has never seen de Longchamps from the time he went out of the room where the sheriff was, as above related. That he knows nothing further of the manner of his escape. That he has never heard any person say where he is concealed—That he does not know the hand writing of either of the Letters now shown to him, addres- sed to Mr. Marbois, nor by whom they were sent; nor has he ever heard who wrote or sent the said Letters or either of them—And further this deponant saith not. WILLIAM DE LUCE. Sworn this 5 Day of June, 1784, before JAMES EWING...” Pennsylvania, ss. Be it remembered that on the fifth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four before the subscriber one of the Justices the peace, in & for the County of * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 115, 117, 120, 135, 136, 184, 589, &c.
Page 273
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 278 Philad", to him assigned &c., personally appeared George Turner, who being duly sworn & of full age doth depose & say—That about noon on last Thursday he was going to the Chamber of Mr. Justice Bryan, & in Wine street saw Mr. Wm. McPherson who called to this deponant & informed him that the Argument respecting Mr. De Longchamps was adjourned; whereupon this deponant turned back and accompanied Mr. McPherson to the house of Mr. De Long- champs. That Mr. McPherson asked him to go up stairs, which he did, and there found the Sheriff in a room as he believes alone, that soon after de Longchamps came in & said that his Wife was sick, & on the bed. That some conversation then took place between the said de Longchamps and thc Sheriff, the purpose of which this depo- nant understood to be, that Mr. de Longchamps wanted to put on clean cloaths—That the Sheriff told him he could wait, but desired him to lose no time. That De Longchamps then went out, & this deponant soon after went out also with Mr. McPherson—That this deponant did not discover any thing on the part of the Sheriff that discovered any intention of improperly favoring the prisoner de Long- champs. That this Deponant did not see de Longchamps after he left the room as aforesaid, nor does he know any thing further of the manner of his Escape. G. TURNER. Sworn before me ISAAC HOWELL. The above deponant being further examined saith—That he now recollected that the Sheriff (Colonel Proctor) did in the Chev' de Longchamp's House and Presence, and before Major Macpherson, observe that some Report had passed concerning a supposed undue Indulgence extended by him, the Sheriff, to Longchamps, and that though mere Reports, it had rendered it extremely improper for him to extend any Indulgence at that time—alluding (as this Deponant believes) to a wish expressed by Mr. Longchamps, or some of his Friends, that he might be permitted to remain in his own House 'till the hour appointed for hearing Council on his Case, which was to have been argued the same Day, as this Deponant is informed. G. TURNER. Sworn the day and year aforesaid before me, JAMES EWING. Pennsylvania, ss. Be it remembered that on the fifth Day of June, in the year of Lord one thousand seven hundred & eighty-four before me the Sub- scriber one of the Justices of the peace in & for the county of Phila- delphia, personally appeared Wm. McPherson, who being of full age and duly sworn doth depose That on the third day of this month,
Page 274
274 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. this deponant attended at the Chambers of the Honorable George Bryan, Esq’r, before whom Mr. De Longchamps was brought by virtue of a habeas corpus, in Custody of the Sheriff of the County of Philadelphia–That after Mr. de Longchamps left the Chambers of the Judge, he went in Custody of the said Sheriff to his own house & this Deponant followed him. That this Deponant & Mr. George Turner went up stairs, where he found the Sheriff, and soon after Mr. de Longchamps came into the room, & said that Mrs. de Long- champs was ill—The sheriff asked him if he was ready to go to goal, Longchamps said he was in no hurry to return there, & ex- pressed some surprise at the design of having the matter tried in public & he said it would be necessary to clean or dress himself— That thereupon the Sheriff said if he would go and do it he would wait and desired him to be as expeditious as possible—Whereupon de Longchamps went out & this deponant & Mr. Turner soon after fol- lowed him, went down stairs & did not see Longchamps afterwards. That this deponant remembers there was a horse bridled and saddled before the house de Longchamps or the next house at the time when the deponant went into the house of de Longchamps—That this deponant did not discover anything in the conduct of the Sheriff that seemed designed to favor the escape of the prisoner—That he knows nothing farther of the manner in which de Longchamps escaped. W. MACPHERSON. Sworn before me, ISAAC HOWELL. W. Macpherson recollects that the Sheriff did in the Chevalier De Longchamp's house and presence and before S. Turner observe that some Reports had passed concerning supposed undue indulgence which the Sheriff had extended to De Longchamp, and the men report it rendered it extremely improper for him to give any further indulgence. W. MACPHERSON. Sworn the day & year aforesaid before me, JAMES EWING. RETURNS OF ELECTIONs, 1784. Philadelphia 7th June, 1784. Sir, I wish it might be in your Power to Obtain Blank Commissions for About 30 Companys, the Distance being so great; I think might justify such a measure as well as in Other States, who have Extensive teritory, I had Repeatedly Apply" for Returns of the Elections in Fayette County, but could not Obtain them so as to make Returns with Any Precision.
Page 275
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 275 I can make you a Return of the field officers, Wiz : FIRST BATALION OF FAYETTE County. Zedock Springer, Lieut. Col., James Hammond, Maj'. 2d BATN. SAID County. Joseph Forance, Lieut. Col., Thomas Freeman, Maj'. 2* BATALION OF WESTMoRELAND County. Benj" Davis, Lieut. Col., Sam Wilson, Maj. The Return of the Company Election was not come to hand unless Blank Commissions can be obtained for them, Perhaps there may not be an opportunity before the fall, Masters to make them out so as to obtain Commissions as those that have Really made Returns of their elections may Complain that it is not their fault. I will therefore make you a Return of such as has, and you will Please to have Done what Council may think Consistant in the matter, and Am Sir, Your Most Ob. HBle. Serv", EDW. COOK. Directed, The Honble Isaac Mason, Esq. A Return of Elections in Fayette and part of Westmoreland Countys. 24 BATALION OF FAYETTE. 1* Company. 6 Sam’l Burns, Capt. Joseph Rodgers, Capt. John Paterson Lt. James Powers, Lt. Jonathan Johnson, Engn. Tho' Dickinson, Engn. 2d 7 William Sparks, Capt. Robert Forcyth, Capt. John Parker, Lt. IRobert Mitchel, Lt. Henry Greer, Engn. Thos. Patterson, Ensign. 3d. 8 Dan'l Cannon, Capt. Sam'l Moore, Capt. Donis Springer, Lt. Robert McClellen, Lt. Alex' Carson, Engn. Isaac Couchran, Engn. Fourth Company. 5th. Adam Dunlap, Capt. John Carson, Lt. Andrew Byers, Engn.
Page 276
276 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. THE 2a BATALION OF WESTMORELAND. 1“Company. - 4th. Thomas Morten, Capt. * Joseph Beckett, Capt. Philip Howel, Lt. Richard Johnston, Lt. George Shield, Ensn. Lewis Pearce, Ensn. *- 24. 5 John Reed, Capt. James Sterett, Capt. W* Morgan, Lt. . Jacob Spears, Lt. W* Jones, Ensn. º John Rutan Ensn. 34. Joseph Pease, Capt. Henry Westby, Lt. William Moore, Ensn. A few Returns of Elections from the 1st Batalion of Fayette, but no mention made of Rank therefore unnecessary to mention them. 1784, May 1st. Returns of Militia Officers. w EDWARD COOK. Com' for Westmoreland, dated 1st May, 1783–Fayette dated 1st May, 1784. CoMMISSIONERS FoR SALE OF BARRACKs, 1784. Sir, - We beg leave to request of your Excellency to communicate to the Hon” The Executive Council, That, We on Saturday last, agreeable to our advertisement began the Sale of the Barracks Lots, when we disposed of 32* of them amounting in the Gross to Three thousand eight hundred and Twenty Pounds, as # account which we have the honor to enclose you. If your Honors have no objection we mean to publish for the Sale of the Remaining Ground, (except the Slips which cannot with propriety be sold at public sale) in two or three weeks. We have the honor of subscribing ourselves, Your Excellency's most Obedient Servant, ML. HILLEGAS, TENCH FRANCIS. Philad", June 7, 1784. Here insert the List of purchasers. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the Hon” the Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. - * See page 268. -i. .
Page 277
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 277 MonsLEUR DE MARBOIS To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Philadelphia, June 8th, 1784. Sir, - In the absence of the Minister of the King I received and opened your Excellency's letter dated the 4” instant. It contains as- surances that no collusion took place in the occasion of the Escape: of Mr. Longchamps. For that point I don't hesitate to rest on the assertion of the Supreme Council, & I would ever readily ac- knowledge that nobody was privy to his evasion unless proofs were found to the contrary: but I am sure it has not escaped your observation that there was a very ill placed confidence, a most unwarrantable neglect on the side of the officers of the State, when they suffered a man guilty of so heinous a crime, so easily to run away from the hand of justice. º I received also, Sir, the proclamation you have been pleased to issue in the occasion. I had no doubt to find it as usual in Satur- day's paper, Gazette, or at least, in the Pennsylvania Packet of this Day. Permit me to ask, Sir, if your intention is that it be pub- lished as other proclamations, have been in much less important cases; Dispatch in the publication of their proclamation through all the United States might have produced the aprehension of the offender, & I cannot but lament that his escape will involve the State in farther Difficulties, which we very sincerely desire to prevent. With perfect respect, I am Sir, your Excellency's Most obedient & most humble servant, DE MARBOIS. JoHN REYNoLDs, GAOLER, TO WICE PRESIDENT, 1784. To His Excellency, the Vice president of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Chevalier De Long Champs who made his Escape from the Sheriff on the 34 of this instant, is Now in Custody, Delivered to me by the Sheriff at 2 O'Clock this morning in the Gaol. JOHN REYNOLDS, Gaoler. June 8th, 1784. Directed, The Hon” James Ewing, Esquire.
End of Section 88. Continue to next section or 
Section 89
Page 278
278 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. John HUBLEY TO PREs. DICKINSON.—CourT House BURNED, 1784. Lancaster, June 11th 1784. Honored Sir, It is likely before now you have heard that the Court House in this place has been entirely consumed by Fire. I received this dis- agreeable account on my way to Lancaster from your City, and from any thing that I can collect here, I find that all is guess-work how this affair happened. The House underwent some repairs this summer, and the Plais- terers were at work; a quantity of Lime was put up in the inside for that purpose, to secure it from the weather—some suppose the Lime set it on Fire—others suppose that a Clock-maker, who was conducting the weights of the Clock in a different channel from that they formerly run in, used some Fire and was negligent. The Clock-maker denies he used any Fire in his work—and, many con- jectured that it was wickedly set Fire to by some unknown villain, so that the affair remains as yet in the dark. Happy it is for this place that the mischief has ended with the loss of the Court House only, as a strong south-west wind was blowing, and carried the Fire in great quantities over great part of the North-East part of the Town; and tho' the Calvinist Meeting House, which stands at a considerable distance from the Court House, and several other buildings, took Fire, yet it was happily extinguished without much damage. I thought that this affair might be confusedly Reported in the City, therefore have given you such information as I could collect in the few hours I have arrived here. I am, sir, with the utmost respect, Your very hble. servant, w JOHN HUBLEY. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President of the state of Penna., Philadelphia. CHEv. DE LA LUZERNE TO PREs. OF CouncIL, 1784. Philadelphie, le 14 Juin, 1784. Monsieur, - I’ái passé plusieurs anneés avec trop de satisfaction dans cette ville pour ne pas eprouver de vifs regrets au moment de m'en eloigner. Les intérêts des deux nations sont si etroitement unis que sans cesser d'être François j'ai pume considerer comme Citoyen destreize Etats et separé des miens pendant plus de cinq ans et dans des tems difficiles j'ai trouvé dans cette ville toutes les compensa-
Page 279
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 279 tions capables de me dédommager des privations aux quels j'ai d'à me soumettre. Je prie votre Excellence de permettre qu’en prenant congé d'Elle et du conseil je l'assure que je conserverai toute ma vie le souvenir de l'amitié dont j'ai requ des marques tant de sa part que de celle des citoyens de cette ville. Je les prie de me la con- server et d'être persuadé que les sentimens qui m'attachent à ce pays cine finiront qu'avec ma vie. Jesuis avec respect, Monsieur, de Votre Excellence le très humble et w très obéissant serviteur, CHEW. DE LA LUZERNE.” Son Excellence Mr. le President et l’honble. conseil. CHRISTOPHER HAYES TO PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Westmoreland County, 14th June, 1784. Dear Sir, My best Compliments wait on your Excellency and Family. I take this opportunity to inform your Excellency that a considerable number of Inhabitants (formerly Virginians, and in opposition to the Laws and Government of this state,) have now turned out open Robbers, and so notorious that scarce two days pass that some outrage is not committed in one part or other of this Country, tho’ Fayette and Washington Counties seem, at present, to be the prin- cipal seat of Depredation. Last Wednesday the Collector was robbed near Besins-Töwn, in Fayette County, of about twenty-two pounds, in Cash, his Warrant and Duplicate taken from him and his person grossly abused. Sundry other robberies have been commited lately in Washington and Fayette Counties, mostly on the Property of the most noted defenders of the Country during the late confict. Although the Indians have been very troublesome to the Inhabi- tants in the Kentucke neighbourhood this spring, we have had the happiness to live here in the most perfect peace and security as yet, and from the best intelligence lately had from Sandusky and Detroit, we have nothing to apprehend from that quarter, as the Northern Indians seem generally disposed for Peace, & anxious for a treaty. The disturbances at Kentucke are occasioned by the Cherokees. I would beg the favour of your Excellency to send me the late acts of assembly by my son-in-law, Captn. Henderson, and the favour shall be gratefully acknowledged by Sir, with the highest respect, Your Excellency's most obedient Humble Servant, CHRISTOPHER HAYSt. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq. * For a translation of this see Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 147. # See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 151.
End of Section 89. Continue to next section or 
Section 90
Page 280
280. TENNSYLVANA ARCHIVES 1784. MEMORIAL FROM FAYETTE Co., 1784. Fayette County, June 15, 1784. To his Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire. President of ye Supreme Executive Council. Honrd. Sr., º The Inhabitants of Stewarts Crossings, beg leave to represent your Excellency. - That we were much surpris’d on being presented with ye Copy of a Letter by one of your worthy members, which was sent to your Excellency informing you, that a considerable number of ye Inhabi- tants (formerly Virginians) in opposition to the Laws and Govern- ment of this State, have now turned out open Robbers. We are happy that we have it in our power to present this to your Excel- lency by the hands of a Gentlemen, whom we hope will do us the Honr. to state us impartially in our fair character, without respect. of parties, as this Gentlemen is well acquainted with ye circumstance of ye whole matter in doing us the Honour of accompanying us in going in search of those Robbers, and suppressing such Burglars. We acknowledge we were brought up under ye Government of Wir- ginia, and were ruled by that Government whilst the Territorial Disputes subsisted between the two States. But when they thought proper to adjust ye Boundaries, we were willing to submit to ye Laws of Pennsylvania, and hope your Excellency will find us as true Citizens as any belonging to ye State, as we have made it evi- dent on every occasion. We have always been willing to risque our all in the glorious cause, we have been so long contending for, which we can make manifest by Sundry Gentlemen who are as fully acquainted with us, as the author of that Letter which was sent to your Excellency. And amongst others, Col. McClene who has suffer'd on fatigue, with those who seem at present, to be the objects of such malevolent ridicule without the least reason. We were happy in believing that all party matters were buried in oblivion, but are greatly concerned to find the contrary. Col. Hays has re- lated in another Letter to your Excellency, that those who bore the Burden of ye War must now be ruled over, by those who are Enemies in their Hearts to ye State. We would appeal to ye knowledge and Candour of the several Officers who have commanded in this Department, whether the people thus stigmatized have been more backward in defence of our common rights than any of our neighbours. We must beg your Excellency's pardon, for making so free, from ye most intolerable character your Excellency had of us, but we shall refer you to that worthy Gentlemen Major Douglass, who is rather better acquainted with us than Col. Hayes. So makes
End of Section 90. Continue to next section or 
Section 91
Page 281
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 281 bold to subscribe ourselves your Excellency's most obedient and humble Servants. ROBERT BEALL, ZACHS. CONNELL, WM. W. CAANNICK, JOHN STEVENSON, MARCUS STEVENSON, MOSES SMITH, JAS. DAVIS, WILLIAM CONNELL. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President in the Su- preme Executive Council Pennsylvania. TURNBULL MARMIE & Co., To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Si Philad., June 16th, 1784. 1r, We have this morning received from on Board the Brig Dauphin from Havre De Grass Twenty Kegs of Powder, which we sent as customary to the State Magazeen. The same has been returned to us, by the Keeper, with a message that it could not be received on account of the Magazeen being full. In consequence we made ap- plication to the wardens of the port, for their directions to take cog- nisence of the same. By their Letter which we take the Liberty of inclosing, We are recommended to lay the case before your Excel- lency, and beg leave to request your advice and direction necessary to be done with it, which shall be duly attended to by your Excellency's most obt. hum. Servts. TURNBULL & MARMIE & Co., Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr., In Council. tº WARDENs of PHILADELPHIA To TURNBULL, MARMIE & Co., 1784. Wardens office, 16th June, 1784. Gentlemen, The Wardens of the Port having no Direction of the Powder Magazine have it not in their power to obviate your difficulty nor can they advise what can be done unless by application to the Su- preme Executive Council who perhaps in the present exigence may point out a Temporary Relief.
End of Section 91. Continue to next section or 
Section 92
Page 282
282 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. The Powder Officer will no doubt either make or Join you in making the Application but it would be improper for the wardens to intermeddle in it, I am respectfully on behalf of the Board, Gentlemen, Yr. very Hble Servt. THO. PRYOR, attending Warden. Directed, Messr. Turnbull & Marmie. PREs. DICKINson To CHEv. DE LA LUzERNE, 1784. To his Excellency Chevº de Luzerne Minister Plenipoteny of his Most X* Majesty to the United States. Sir, The Executive Council of Pennsylvº cannot witness your prepara- tions to embark for your Native Country without expressing the pain we feel at the prospect of your departure, & the high Sense we entertain of the Zeal, and Ability with which you have promoted the Union of France with the United States, during your residence among us. We beg leave to assure you at the same time that the return of peace, and our General intercourse with the powers of Europe have not in the least lessened our Sense of our many obligations to the illustrious Monarch of France, nor our gratitude for the benefits we derived from the bravery and treasure of the French nation. We are happy in this opportunity of acknowledging that your conduct towards the Supreme Executive power of the State has been uniformly marked with all that decency, and respect which charac- terise the Gentlemen of the nation to which you belong. Accept of our best wishes for your Safe and Speedy Voyage, may you long possess the favour of your Sovereign, and the esteem of your Country Men, and enjoy in every stage of life the pleasures which arise from faithful contributions to the interests of humanity.* JAMES EWING. Council Chamber, 19th June, 1784. FRANCIS JoHNSTON, R. G., To W. P. Ewing, 1784. The Honorable James Ewing, Esq., Vice President in Council. Sir i beg leave to inform Council, that the late Law for opening the Land Office, among other things, makes it necessary for me to administer an oath to Applicants for Land, if deemed proper, in order to ascertain their Citizenship, so as to entitle them to present * See page 278. Also, see Col. Rec., Wol. XIII, p. 145. .
Page 283
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 283 the Certificates enumerated in said Law in payment for Lands. Here I cannot help observing, that the Door which this Law opens to the unwary leading to perjury, *f; to be shut, if possible, in order to effect which in some degree, I beg leave to suggest, that if your honorable Body would direct the Agents appointed to receive the Final Settlement Certificates of the Pennsylvania Line, to Coun- tersign the same, it would fully supersede the necessity of adminis- tering an Oath, and indeed would more certainly prove the Citizenship of the original owner, than any other mode whatever : With regard to the ascertaining the Citizenship of the Assignee of such Certificate I presume no fixed rule can be established, I therefore shall be guided in this particular by such contingent circumstances as shall present themselves to me. The safety of these Certificates after deposited in my office as well as the Cash I shall receive, are also very essential matters, therefore take the liberty of Soliciting Coun- cil for an Iron Chest, or some other convenience in which I can secure them. I have the honor to be Your Honors most obedient and very humble Servant, FRA: JOHNSTON, R. G.” Mons. DE MARBOIs To W. P. Ewing. 1784. Philadelphia, 8* June, 1784. S., When I received the letter with which you honoured me on the 27", I transmitted it to the Chevalier de la Luzerne, expecting it might reach him to Chester before his departure, but it has not been the case. The minister left this place in full persuasion that the adress with which he had been honoured by the Council was an answer to his letter; otherwise he would never have left this place without expres- sing his Sense & gratitude of the flattering sentiments of the council in his behalf. I am, sir, with perfect respect, your very humble obed servant, DE MARBOIS.it * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 151. f See pages 278, 282
End of Section 92. Continue to next section or 
Section 93
Page 284
284 PENNSYLVANLA ARCHIVES 1784. CIRCULAR OF CouncIL TO CLERK OF THE PEACE, 1784. Circular. ; : Secretary's Office, Philadelphia, June 29th, 1784. Sir * in the precedents lately sent to you for Returns of Elections of Justices of the Peace, mention of the Constable was omitted in the first Line, in the signing. I am now directed by Council to inform you, that all Returns must be certified by the Constable (or Overseer of the poor) together with the Inspector & Assistant Judges, and also signed by him, according to the amended form now inclosed. - I am, Sir, with much respect, Your obedient and very humble Servant. Directed, To the Clerk of the Peace in County. REPORT of MILITARY STOREs, 1784. Sir, At fort Island there are } ; pr. } 1; ºr. Iron Guns mounted. 6 Muskets, 1 bbrl, powder, & 12 boxes filled with Cannon pow- der Cartridges, trail ropes, &c. At Billingsport are 5 18 pdrs. 1 12 & 14 mounted. 1 12 1 6 & 24 dismounted. Some Shot and Shells. The Carriages at both places are rotten, & good for nothing but the Iron. - I am, Sir, y' most obedient Serv", JOSEPH STILES, C. M. Stores. July 1, 1784. Directed, . John Armstrong, Esq., Secretary to the hon. the Supreme Execu- tive Council.
Page 285
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 285 -WM. LYON TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Honoured Sir, The inclosed list of Sheriffs, their Commissions, Bonds & Sureties &c.," are in pursuance of a Letter which I lately rec" from the Sec- retary of Councils Clark, which list will, I hope, be agreeable to the requisition of Council. I am your Excellencies - Most Obedient Humble Servant, -- WILL'm LYON. Carlisle, July 6", 1784. Directed, - His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the Supreme Executive Council, in Council, Philadelphia. A LIST OF SHERIFFS FOR CUMBERLAND County, 1784. A List of Sheriffs for Cumberland County from the year 1777 to the year 1783, Inclusive. Sheriffs Names. Date of Sheriffs Commissions. James Johnston, Esq., - - - - Nov. 7th, 1777. Ditto, - - - - - Oct. 29th, 1778. Ditto, - - - - - Nov. 12th, 1779. John Boggs, Esq., - - - - - Oct. 26th, 1780. Ditto, - - - - - Nov. 30th, 1781. Ditto, - - - - - Oct. 15th, 1782. Samuel Postlethwait, Esq., - - - Oct. 24th, 1783. To His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President of the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania in Council, July 6th, 1784. WILL" LYON, Proth'y. C. J. McKEAN To CouncIL, 1784. Philadelphia, June 30th, 1784. Sir, On the 28th day of the next month my Commission as Chief Justice will expire, its duration being only for seven years. I thought it proper to give Your Excellency and the Honorable the Council this early information, and have the Honor to be Sir, with the utmost regard, Your and their most obedient, And most humble servant, THO. M'KEAN.f Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President & Commander in Chief of Pennsylvania. * These details (except what follows) we have omitted. f_He was re-elected July 29th. Sce Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 167. Vol. X.-13
Page 286
286 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Sec'y ARMSTRONG TO THOMAS PROCTOR, 1784. Secretary's Office, 8th July, 1784. Sir You will be pleas'd to make a report to this office on the 25th Instant, (the time at which the Gen. Assembly is called to sit) of the number of persons confined in the Gaol of this City & County on charges of felony.* I am, Sir, with much respect, Your most obed’t servant, JNO. ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y.f - (Copy.) Thomas Proctor, Esq. SEc'Y ARMSTRONG TO LT. Col. MooRE, 1784. Secretary's Office, - Philadelphia; July 8th, 1784. Sir - You will be pleased to report to this office, as soon as possible before the 20th Instant, the proceedings which have been taken by you in consequence of the Orders of Council of the twentieth of April last. I am, with much respect, Sir, your most obed’t servant, J. ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y.f Lt. Col. Moore. SEc'y of CouncIL. To County LIEUTENANTs, 1784. (Circular.) Si Secretary's Office, Philada., July 10th, 1784. Ir i inclose an Order of Council of this morning & am with much respect, Your most obedient, Hum. servant, JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. In Council, 10th July, 1784. “Upon consideration ordered that the City & County Lieutenants “be called upon to make a return of all the public Arms, Accoutre- “ments & Stores within their respective districts.” * See page 296. + See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 158.
Page 287
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 287 RETURN of OFFICERs of MILITIA, OF County of WASH- INGTON, 1784. Wiz : A return of the Officers of Militia in the County of Washington, FIRST BATTALION. David Phillips, Lt. Col. First Comp'y. James Mun, Capt. Henry Sawings, Lieut. 73 William Byars, Ensign. Second Company. Nominated. Robert Ritchie, Capt. Jeremiah Wright, Lt. 74 Thomas Sweet, Ensign. Third Company. Nominated. William Conner, Capt. John Conner, Lieut. 68 Isaac Williams, Ensign. Fourth Company. Mabra Evans, Capt. James Willson, Lieut. 82 William Goban, Ensign. No. of Men. John Small, Major. Fifth Company. John Robinson, Capt. Samuel Heth, Lieut. 60 Thomas Gibson, Ensign. No. of Men. Sixth Company. Sam’l Blackmore, Capt. George Welch, Lieut. 96 H'y Morrisson, Ensign. Seventh Company. Wm. Armstrong, Capt. John Brackenridge, Lt. 61 Jn" Blackburn, Ensign. Eighth Company. William Phillips, Capt. John Lamb, Lieut. 78 Arch'd Ralston, Ensign. SECOND BATTALION. Henry Enoch, Lieut. Col. First Comp'y. John Guthrey, Capt. George Cilsur, Lieut. 74 M’w Hannon, Ensign. Second Company. Andrew Ferley, Capt. Ja's Blackburn, Lieut. 64 Ja's Metheney, Ensign. Third Company. Nominated. Charles Swan, Capt. Azariah Davis, Lieut. 80 Wm. Shepherd, Ensign. Fourth Company. Thomas Extile, Capt. Henry Dickinson, Lt. 84 John Lindsley, Ensign. No. of Men. James Carmichael, Major. Fifth Company. No. of Men. Elijah Mills, Capt. Jacob Mills, Lieut. 56 Elisha Perkins, Ensign. Sixth Company. Jas. M'Clelland, Capt. John Holt, Lieut. 75 Joseph Garret, Ensign. Seventh Company. Robert Sweney, Capt. Everhart Heep, Lieut. 72 Henry Hormil, Ensign. Eighth Company. James Archer, Capt. John Fee, Lieut. 62 David White, Ensign.
End of Section 93. Continue to next section or 
Section 94
Page 288
288 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. THIRD BATTALION. John Marshal, Lieut. Colonel. Potter Kidd, Major. First Company. No. of Men. Henry Renkon, Capt. . Alexander Kidd, Lieut. 70 Josiah Scott, Ensign. Second Company. Third Company. Thomas Wells, Capt. Samuel Leiper, Lieut. 55 John Wells, Ensign. Fourth Company. Samuel Smith, Capt. Thomas Marquis, Lieut. 77 Wm. Wallace, Ensign. Fifth Company. No. of Men. James Stevenson, Capt. Arthur Scott, Lieut. 62 Jesse Renkon, Ensign. Sixth Company. Thomas Renkon, Capt. Charles Campbell, Lt. 66 William Hays, Ensign. Seventh Company. John Reed, Captain, Wm. Herron, Lieut. 80 James Howld, Ensign. Eighth Company. FourTBI BATTALION. David Williamson, Lieut. Col. First Company. No. of Men. Sixth Company. No. of Men. Charles Bonner, Capt. Robert Walker, Lieut. 60 Phillip Briscoe, Ensign. Second Company. Third Company. Thos. Hambleton, Capt. James Brown, Lieut. 67 Samuel White, Ensign. Fourth Company. William Leet, Capt. Brice Virgin, Lieut. 74 Obediah Holms, Ensign. Fifth Company. James Morrison, Capt. 60 Daniel Leet, Major, Eleazer Williamson, Capt. John McWilliams, Lt. 65 Jacob Miller, Ensign. Seventh Company. John Cotton, Capt. Samuel Reddle, Lieut. 71 James Huston, Ensign. Eighth Company. Timothy Downing, Capt. Anderson, Lieut. 81 John Williams, Ensign. FIFTH BATTALION. John Guthredge, Lieut. Col. First Company. No. of Men. Second Company. No. of Men. Eleazer Jenkens, Capt. Thos. Richeson, Lieut. 80 Kinzey Davis, Ensign. James Craven, Major. Wm. Jackman, Capt. . Henry Gregg, Lieut. 76 James Thomas, Ensign. º
End of Section 94. Continue to next section or 
Section 95
Page 289
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 289 Third Company. No. of Men. Sixth Company. No. of Men. David Ruble, Capt. George Myars, Capt. Darbey Shahan, Lieut. 55 Luther Kerrey, Lieut. 60 Wal'ne Kindor, Ensign. Henry Conrod, Ensign. Fourth Company. Seventh Company. Isaac Ross, Capt. Nominated. Frederick Ault, Lieut. 56 John Warth, Capt. John Huffman, Ensign. Thomas Ritchie, Lieut. 73 Fifth Company. Nich's Johnson, j', Ensign. Edward Seaburn, Capt. Eighth Company. Richard Hogeland, Lt. 55 Nominated. Jere'h Craven, Ensign. Robert Jackman, Capt. Joseph Brenton, Lieut. 68 Nathan Powel, Ensign. I do Certify that the foregoing return is Just, as it stands stated JAM: MARSHEL, Lieut W. Coy. July 7", 1784. John IRWIN To John ARMSTRONG, 1784. Pittsburgh, July 15th, 1784. Dear Sir, I would not presume to trouble you in your public Capacity upon any other subject than that which relates to the business of Govern- ment & the welfare of our Community. When these Objects becomes the subject, I am persuaded that any further appology is unnecessary with you. It may justly be reckoned a strange Circumstance, indeed, that since the beginning of our Revolution the Town & Township of Pittsburgh have been untill very lately, unfortunately deprived of the services of the Civil Magistracy—and I may say with propriety, that we yet remain al- most intire Strangers to the advantages Commonly derived from that very essential part of Government. The Gentleman who now holds the Commission being our Prothonotary & a Professional Lawyer besides, it is reasonable to suppose that the duties of his office & the extent of his Practice will admit but a very small part of his time to be applied to the business of the Township—Consequently the inhabitants thereof are frequently subjected to many & very great inconveniencies. We have for several years past repeatedly attempted to remedy these Inconveniencies by calling for & obtaining such Elec- tions as were Judged requisite, but from the baneful effects of Piques & jealousies, opperating strongly with disappointment & ambition, means were always found to defeat our attempts & deprive us of the Service of those Gentlemen who were the first objects of our repeated
Page 290
290 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Choice. Our last Election, held in May, is the only one I believe that has escaped opposition & Censure amongst ourselves, & we have reason to believe that the Return thereof must now ly before the Honble Council for upwards of two months. As the Gentleman who stands highest in Votes upon that Return is perfectly agreeable to all the people, & we daily experience an increase of difficulties from the want of his additional service, I do therefore in behalf of the people beg leave to Intreat that as soon as any limitation is ex- pired which the Law may prescribe for considering Cases of this nature, the Honble Executive Council will be pleased to forward a Commission agreeable to the Intention & Return of said Election. I likewise intreat of you, Sir, that you will be so obliging as to move this matter to Council, & promote as far as is consistant, what is needful upon the Occasion. I am respectfully, & with regard, Dear Sir, your Obed. Hble Servº, JOHN IRWIN. Directed, John Armstrong, Esquire, Secretary to the Honorable Executive Council, Philada. - Fav'd by Capt. Fowler. CHIEF JUSTICE McKEAN TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Si Philadelphia, July 16°, 1784. Ir, Enclosed your Excellency will receive the Letter from the Hon- orable G. Duvall, Esquire, President of the Council of Maryland, that was referred to the Judges, together with the Copy of their Letter to Mr. Duvall, respecting Henry Carberry, - Governor Paca, in his Letter to the Judges, seems to think it will be necessary to obtain the authority of the Government of Delaware for the conducting M" Carberry thro’ that State; and that the Ex- ecutive Power of Maryland can only extend to the limits of their own State : But, I conceive, that, by a necessary construction of the 4* Article of the Confederation, which declares, that the person accused shall be delivered up and removed to the State having jurisdic- tion of his offence, the Executive Authority of Maryland are impowered to conduct the offender thro’ Delaware to the State of Pennsylvania;. for this power is impliedly conceded by the United States to the Individual States. It is true, by a literal construction of the second clause in the 4* Article, the offender is only to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the offence, not to the Goal of the County in which the offence was committed; but we were of opinion, that the Officer who should bring Henry Carberry from Maryland, might not find it inconvenient to take him to Philadelphia, tho' it would be
Page 291
PENNSYLVANLA ARCHIVES 1784. 291 twenty miles within the State of Pennsylvania; and we alluded to the usage & practice between this State and New-Jersey, and also the Delaware State; having repeatedly sent Criminals to Newcastle and Burlington, and received them from those States in the Goal of Philadelphia. - I have the honor to be, with very great regard, Sir, Your Excellency's most obedient humble servant, THO. M'KEAN. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire. No. 1. Si In Council, Annapolis, 29 April, 1784. Ir, We take the earliest Opportunity of communicating to your Ex- cellency, that Mr. Henry Carberry, a Citizen of this State, and late a Captain in the Pennsylvania line of the continental Troops, has been arrested, and charged before two of the Judges of the General Court, with having been a principal in a dangerous Insurrection in Philadelphia, in June last, and having beset the Stadt house with an armed force, and for which he is now in the Custody of the Laws of this State, the Judges before whom he was charged having recog- nized him for his Appearance before the General Court for the Western Shore, on the second Tuesday in May next. * We have the Honour to be Your Excellency's most obedº ser", G. DUWALL, President. Directed,—His Exc'y President of State of Penns". Indorsed, Read in Council May 6th, 1784—and Ordered, That the same be referred to the Judges of the Supreme Court, and that they be requested to take measures for bringing Henry Carbery, into this State, and for prosecuting him for the Offence charged against him. JAMES TRIMBLE, for JOHN ARMSTRONG, jun., Secretary. No. 2. Philadelphia, May 8*, 1784. Sir, Your Letter of the 29th of April last, to his Excellency the Presi- dent of this State, was received on the 6* Instant, & laid before the Council, who have been pleased to refer it to the Judges of the Su- preme Court, and to request that measures may be taken by them for bringing Henry Carberry into this State, and for prosecuting him for the offence charged against him.
Page 292
- 292 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. In consequence of this Act of Council, We would request that you would be pleased to order the aforesaid Henry Carberry to be sent to the goal of the city and county of Philadelphia, where the Keeper thereof will receive him; or if he will enter into a recogni- zance before one of the Judges of the Supreme Court of this State, with two good sureties, himself in two thousand pounds, and each of them in one thousand pounds, for his Appearance, &c., at the next court of Oyer and Terminer and General Goal Delivery for the city & county of Philadelphia, it will answer the purpose intended. The request to send Henry Carberry here, is founded on the second clause of the 4th Article of the Confederation, and has been the con- stant usage between this State and the neighbouring States: The expence of his removal here, will be paid by this State, if he does not discharge it himself; or comply with the alternative before pro- posed, which must be thought favorable to a person accused of so high a misdemeanor. - - We have the honor to be, Honºlº Sir, Your most obedient, humble servants, THO. M'KEAN, JACOB RUSH. The Honorable G. Duvall, Esquire, Preside of the Council of Maryland. Sir, The above is a copy of the rough draught of the letter to the President of the Council of Maryland, at Annapolis, and differs in nothing material from the Letter sent. The diction may have been a little mended, in the transcribing it, tho' I think there were but few words altered or transposed. I am, with the greatest esteem, Sir, Your most obedient, humble servant, THO. M'KEAN. Philadelphia, July 16", 1784. Directed, - His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President, &c., of Pennsylvania. No. 3. In Council, Annapolis, May 20", 1784. Gentlemen : We have the Honor to acknowledge your's of the 7th Instant, informing us that our's of the 29* April, addressed to the President of your State, was received, and referred by the Council to you as Judges of the Supreme Court, to take measures to bring Mr. Car- bery into your State for Prosecution and Trial, for the offences which he is charged to have there committed: in consequence of this Act
End of Section 95. Continue to next section or 
Section 96
Page 293
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 293 of Council, you have addressed us, and requested that we should order Mr. Carbery to be sent to the Gaol of the City and County of Philadelphia. As soon as we were made acquainted with Mr. Carbery's Affair.” we took measures to give your Executive power the earliest infor- mation of it, conceiving that by the Articles of Confederation, they only could nationally interfere, and demand him out of the Hands and Jurisdiction of this Government: the 4th Clause of the Confederation is plain and explicit, and we still think no Authority in your State competent to demand Mr. Carbery but the Executive. It does not appear from your Letter that you were Commissioned and Authorized to demand Mr. Carbery: you address us in your judicial Capacity, and not as the Commissioners of your Executive: the Act of Council which you mention, seems to have had a different Object, and refers only to taking measures to bring Mr. Carberry to your State for Trial. When your Executive shall think proper to exercise their Authority in the present Case, and make a Demand of Mr. Carbery, we shall immediately order him to be delivered up, and removed to your State. But we do not think we can be justified in the exercise of any Authority over him beyond the Limits of this State: he must be delivered by our Officers at the Limits' and there received by your's If he is to pass thro’ Delaware, we conceive the Executive and Judicial Authority there should be made acquainted with the Affair, and their ministerial Officers ordered to receive him of our’s, and conduct him to your Limits, where your Officer will take charge of him, and carry him to such Gaol in your State as you may think proper to direct. - Not having had the Honor of any communication from your Ex- ecutive in Answer to our Address on this Subject, we can say nothing of their Intentions, and it does not become us to repeat the Infor- mation by another Letter, as the one we have already wrote has been received. We have the Honor to be, with very great regard, Your most obed., humble Servants, JOHN PACA. The Hon’ble Tho' M'Kean & Jacob Rush, Esq". ALEx. McCLEAN TO PREs. DICKINSoN, 1784. Union Town, 16th July, 1784. Sir Å copy of a Letter said to have been addressed to your Excellency from some person in this county, containing reflections upon such of the Inhabitants as have formerly adhered to the Government of Virginia particularly aimed at the appointment of Colonel Robert * See page 74, and 292. 13 *
Page 294
294 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Beall to the Lieutenancy of this County has been handed to me amongst others.” And I have also been applied to by some of the Gentlemen who think themselves injured by the remarks contained in that Letter, to certify to your Excellency whether they have deserved to be branded with a backwardness to join in whatever has been proposed for the common good or defence of this frontier during the War. In consequence of this their request, in justice to truth and to the Inhabitants of Stewards Crossings (who seem to be particularly pointed at,) I must inform your Excellency that so far from declining any personal or other assistance that has been deemed essential to the good of the country at large those very people thus stigmatized have ever been as uniformly free of their personal service and as liberal of their property on all occasions as any others within my Knowledge. With those very people who are said to have had so little share in the burthen of the War, I have shared the fatigues of the most difficult Campaign that has been carried on in this country, and was a Witness to both their sufferings and fortitude. Many of them have been in the Continental service, and Colonel Beall in particular during a great part of the War. I am with Sentiments of esteem, for your Excellency and the Supreme, Executive Council of Pennsylvania, your Excellency's most Obedient, and very humble Servt. - ALEXANDER. McCLEAN. Directed, His Excellenoy, John Dickinson, Esqr., President. Entered, Hond. §r Ephraim Douglass, Esqr., ARTHUR LEE AND R. BUTLER TO PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Philadelphia, July 23d, 1784. Sir, Having something relative to the Treaties, we are commissioned to negociate with the Indian nations, to communicate to your Excellency & the Council; we beg, the favor of your Excellency to inform us what day & hour it will be convenient for you to give us an audience. We have the honor to be, with great respect yr. Excellency's most obedt. Servis. ARTHUR LEE, R. BUTLER.f Directed, His Excellency, the President. * See page 264, 280. f Col. Rec., XIV., p. 165
End of Section 96. Continue to next section or 
Section 97
Page 295
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 295 CoNFERENCE witH MESSRs. LEE AND BUTLER, 1784: Conference with Messrs. Lee & Butler on their Letter. They represented The necessity of Dispatch in raising the Troops, & Perhaps a Guarrantee of the Pay to the Soldiers may be necessary. Answer of Col.-We have viewed this Business in the same Light. -Expect the members of the Assembly will make a House next Monday—we shall lay the affair before them in such a manner as to show our opinion that not a moment of time is to be lost in the Execution of the Measure. As to the 2d. Point—We cannot be positive, but we think it probable, that from the Circumstances of the Case, the Legislature may consider these states bound to make good the pay to the officers & Soldiers.” SEC'Y ARMSTRONG TO THE MAGISTRACY AND SHERIFF OF NoFTHUMBERLAND Co., 1784. Philada., July 24th, 1784. Gentlemen, We are sorry to learn that the disturbances in the neighbourhood of Wyoming have within these few days revived under so serious a form & that the two parties have proceeded to actual hostilities. In this situation it becomes the duty of Council to require you by every legal means in your power thoroughly to investigate the facts & to proceed with the utmost vigor, & impartiality, so that every Person committing an outrage upon the peace of the County, & the dignity of the State may be duly punished. The more effectually to countenance these proceedings Council have thought proper to direct the Lieutenant of Northampton County to hold a militia de- tachment in immediate readiness to proceed to your aid should any assistance of this kind be thought necessary. I am, &c., with great regard, Gentlemen, your most obed. humble Servant, JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jun., Secy. Indorsed,—July 24th, 1784, Copy of a letter to the Magistracy and Sheriff of North’ld Co., the original committed to Mr. Mead for coaveyance, Entd. * The foregoing appears to be a rough memorandum of the conference. in President Dickinson's writing. As there is nothing on the minutes respecting , it, it is all that appears on the nature of it.
End of Section 97. Continue to next section or 
Section 98
Page 296
296 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. SEc'y ARMSTRONG TO THOMAs CRAIG, 1784. Secretary's Office, Philad'a, July 24th, 1784. Dear Colonel, . The disturbances at Wyoming have taken so alarming a cast and seem to be immediately directed against the peace & dignity of the State—as to call for some very early & vigorous measures on the part of Government. Letters have accordingly been written to the Sheriff & Magistracy of Northumberland County, requiring them to institute an immediate enquiry into the facts & proceed to the ex- ecution of the laws with all possible energy. To give the greater force to these proceedings, Council have also thought proper to direct you to hold some part of your Militia in readiness to act at a moments warning, as from many circumstances they are lead to believe that the exertion of a miliatry force will soon become necessary. I am, my dear Col., yours, &c., &c. JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. Indorsed, - To Thomas Craig, Esq., Lieu't of Northampton Co. RETURN OF CRIMINALS CONFINED IN THE JAIL OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF PHILADELPHIA, 1784. Return of the Criminals Confined in the Jail of the City & County of Philadelphia, July 26th, 1784. f Thomas WALL, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq. May 26th, 1782. Charged on suspicion of attempting to Rob a House in this City at the Corner of Wine Street & front Streets, & sundry other Charges. - ELEANoa WRIGHT, Tryed.—Committed by William McMullin, Esq., Nov'r 23d, 1782. Charged with Stealing the Property of Patrick Mulholland. BARBARA GRIST, Tryed.—Committed by Jn. Miller, Esq., May 12th, 1783. Charged with stealing the sum of two pounds one Shilling & five pence specie, the property of Barbara Roop. MATHIAs LUKINs, Tried.—Committed by John Moore, Esq., May 26th, 1783. Charged with Killing & Murdering Philip Keiser of Kingsessing. - John CARRoLL, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., May 27th, 1783. Charged with Robbing the Store of Stephen Austin & Co., and part of the goods found in his possession. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 167. # See page 286.
Page 297
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 297 RICHARD SHINNoR, Tryed.—Committed by Court, June 3d, 1783. Charged with Robbing a man. GEORGE DoNIvor, Tryed.—Committed by Isaac Howell, Esq., June 6th, 1783. Charged on suspicion of stealing a piece of Chintz, the property of Wm. Adcock, Esq. ARCHIBALD TAYLOR, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., June 21st, 1783. Charged on suspicion of Robbing Jn’o Francis Volly on the Highway of 4 half Johannises & sundry Wearing Apperil. Joseph SUTTON, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., July 8th, 1783. Charged with Horse Stealing. Thomas MoUNT, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., July 12th, 1783. Charged with stealing a piece of Calico, the property of Edw’d Pole. John KEAN & JAMEs MUNKs, Tryed.—Committed by the Court, July 29th, 1783. Charged with an Assault & Battery. PATRICK FITzsIMMONs & MALcom McFARLAND, Tryed.—Com- mitted by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., August 8th, 1783. Charged on suspicion of stealing a Looking Glass the property of Jacob Jeams. SARAH BRowN, Tryed.—Committed by John Moore, Esq., Aug. 25th 1783. Charged on suspicion of stealing 5 Silver Spoons, found in her possession. JAMEs McGUIRE, Tryed.—Committed by Benj'n Paschall, Esq., Aug’t 29th 1783. Charged with stealing a Watch the property of Mary Brown, also Charged with stealing 1 p" of silver Buckles the prop of Mary Hunt. John BUTLER, Tryed.—Committed by Benj'n Paschall, Esq. Aug't 29th, 1783. Charged with stealing a Cow, the property of Thomas Wilkey, also Charged with stealing a Cow, the property of Tho's Hall. JAMEs KELLY, Tryed.—Committed by Benj'n Paschall, Esq., Sep. 10th, 1783. Charged with stealing a Mare the property of Adam Levingston. ANN PEMBROKE, Tryed.—Committed by John Miller, Esq., Sep. 29th, 1783. Charged on suspicion of stealing a Quantity of Goods, the prop' of persons unknown. Edw'd CoNNARD.—Committed Oct'r 21st, 1783. Charged by virtue of a Proclamation by the president & Council being attainted with High Treason & out Law'd. Delivered by Capt'n Franks. John Foster, Tryed.—Committed by the Court, Oct. 29", 1783. Charged with Stealing a Horse, the property of Jóel Evans. . IsAAC AUSTIN, Tryed.—Committed by W* McMullin, Esq., Nov. 13", 1783. Charged with stealing the property of Paul Barnes. THoMAs CHARLEs, Tryed.—Committed by Benjamin Paschall, Esq., Nov' 15", 1783. Charged with Stealing a Jacket, the propy of Jonathan Edwards.
Page 298
298 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. MARY DAILEy, Tryed.—Committed by William M’Mullin, Esq., Nov. 29*, 1783. Charged with Keeping a Disorderly House. ANDREw LEBLON, John GoodRYon, & Lewis Colon ET, All three Tryed.—Committed by the Honorable Thomas McKean, Esq., Dec. 1", 1783. Charged with Assulting, beating & wounding the body of George McNealy. Joseph BottomLY, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., Dec. 23", 1783. Charged with a Breach of the peace & an Assault & Battery on the Body of Ge" Hacket & Others. DANIEL KING, Tryed.—Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., Dec 26*, 1783. Charged with Stealing a Great Coat the propſ of James Morris. John SMITH, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., Dec. 27", 1783. Charged with Stealing a saddle from off a Horse in Market Street. PHILIP Hoof.N.AGLE, Tryed.—Committed by the Honorable Thomas McKean, Esquire, Dec. 30”, 1783. Charged with Robb- ing the Coach House of Rob Morris, Esquire, & Stealing from thence Sundry Goods, & Wearing Apperil, &c. DANIEL WILLIAMs.—Committed by the Honorable Thomas McKean, Esquire, Jan' 9", 1784. Charged with divers Robberys, of which he is Attainted. John PHILIPs, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., Jan' 12", 1784. Charged with Robbing the Store of Edwº Pole, & breaking Open & Robbing the Store of Jnº. Strawbridge. WILLIAM CoNNER & GEORGE DAvis, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., Feb' 2", 1784. Charged with Stealing 2 Horses the prop of Jnº. Garrett of Southwark. JAMES BRowN, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., Feb' 3", 1784. Charged with Robbing Edw" Pole & Others, & under Indictment in the City Court. John CHANDLER, Tryed.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., Feb' 5", 1784. Charged with throwing the Mate of the Ship Commerce Overboard. John MoRGAN, Tryed.—Committed by William Rush, Esq., March 12", 1784. Charged with Stealing a piece of Marcillas Quilting, the prop' of Peter Gallegher. CHARLEs WAYMAN, Tryed.—Committed by W• M“Mullin, Esq., April 7", 1784. Charged with Stealing the prop of Jnº. Walker. CHARLEs SMITH, Tryed.—Committed by Isaac Howel, Esquire, April 8", 1784. Charged with Stealing Goods, the prop of Thomas Drumond. - GoDFREY ZIMMERMAN, Tryed.—Committed by William Rush, Esq., April 26", 1784. Charged with Stealing some Goods, the property of Lazarous Barnet. WILLIAM REED.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., April 27", 1784. Charged with Ill Designs & Chalanging to fight, &c.
Page 299
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 299 Mich'i, Powers, Tryed.—Committed by The Court, April 28th, 1784. Charged with an Assault & Battery on the body of John Connor. John MooRk, Tryed.—Committed by the Honorable Thomas McKean, Esquire, April 28", 1784. Charged with Stealing a Horse, the property of Benj" Shoemaker. Thomas Fish, Tryed.—Committed by Jnº. Miller, Esq., April 28*, 1784. Charged with Stealing a White Bonnet, 2 Black Ditto, 1 Silk Cloak, the property of Job Lepincot. RoBERT Powell, Tryed.—Committed by William McMullin, Esq., May 10", 1784. Charged with an Assault & Battery on the Body of Mary Powell. WILL'M CALLAGHAN, Tryed.—Committed by Wm. McMullin, Esq., May 11", 1784. Charged with Stealing the prop of William Hammell. SAM'L HAMBLETON.—Committed by Isaac Howell, Esq., May 11", 1784. Charged on Suspicion of an Assult & Battery on the body of Tho' Wilson—And on Suspicion of Felony. CHARLEs GREER.—Committed by Isaac Howell, Esq., May 12*, 1784. Charged with Doing his wife personal Injury. RoDGER McCLANAGAN, Tryed.—Committed by W* McMullin, §. May 14", 1784. Charged with Stealing the prop' of Robert earch. Hugh MULHoLAND.—Committed by Will" Rush, May 15*, 1784. Charged on Suspicion of Stealing 12 pounds State Money, a Silver Stock Buckel, and a Pincushon Chair. JAMEs Roll AND, JNo. LECHLAND, & JAMES HUSTONs, all 3 Tryed.—Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., May 17, 1784. Charged with Stealing a Jacket, the prop of Tho' Wolet, their Master. DANIEL MUNRoEs.—Committed by W* Rush, Esq., May 18", 1784. Charged on Suspicion of being Concerned with others in Stealing twelve pounds State Money & some other Articles, the prop of Mary Switzer. John BENson.—Committed by Benj" Paschall, Esq., May 19", 1784. Charged with having Stolen Goods in his possession. ELEANoB LINDON.—Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., May 20", 1784. Charged with Harbouring Jn" Benson & John McDonald. John McDoRMIT.—Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., May 24", 1784. Charged with Stealing Sundry Wearing Apperil. THOMAS BANTLING.-Committed by William Rush, Esq., May 24", 1784. Charged with Fornication Committed on Rebecca Mc Ginnis. - Edw'd NUTon—Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., May 25* 1784. Charged with Opening a House by Henry Williams. CHARLEs De Longchamp, Tryed.—Committed by the Honora- ble George Bryan, Esquire, May 25", 1784. Charged with an Assault and Battery on the body of the Hon" Francis Barbe Marboys Consul General of France.
Page 300
800 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. John KARR & John McDonald, Tryed.—Committed by the Honorable Thomas McKean, Esquire, May 26", 1784. Charged with Robbing Thomas Leming in South Wark. SAM'L SAVENIGH.—Committed by William Rush, Esq., May 28", 1784. Charged on Suspicion of Stealing a piece of Checht Linnen the prop of Ge" A. Bahore. CHARLEs SHAvLER & ARTHUR HARBERT.-Committed by Benj" Paschall, Esq., May 29*, 1784. Charged on.Suspicion of Stealing 3 Silver Table Spoons & 7 tea ditto, the prop of Mary Linn. John MURPHY.—Committed by Isaac Howell, Esq., June 5", 1784. Charged on Suspicion of Felony, by Andrew Tybout. John SouTHERLAND, Tryed.—Committed by Will" McMullin, Esq., June 7", 1784. Charged with Stealing the property of Mary Raisins & Sarah Barrey. Joseph CHALK.—Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., June 8", 1784. Charged with Sundry Robberys, by him Committed in Company with Jn" McDonald, John Benson & Others. WILL'M SMITH.—Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., June 11", 1784. Charged with Stealing a pair of Silver Buckels the property of Tho" Cooke. John BUCKIUs.—Committed by William Rush, Esq., June 12", 1784. Charged by Margaret Truely, of Stealing thirty-five French Crowns. ANDREw BRADY.—Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., June 18", 1782. Charged with Stealing twenty Gold Rings, the prop' of W" Donave.ou. John TRAICY.-Committed by William Rush, Esq., June 19*, 1784. Charged with Stealing a Case of Razors & some Wearing Apperil, the property of Capt." Jeremiah Simmons. MARGARET BURNET.-Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., June 22", 1784. Charged by Ann Darrough with Stealing 3 Handker- chiefs & one pocket Book, &c. GEORGE CRowder, PATRICK GREEN & MARY MARR.—Com- mitted by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., June 25", 1784. Charged on . Suspicion of Robbing the Store of Joseph Turner. CHRISTOPHER GRooshop.–Committed by John Moore, Esq., June 25", 1784. Charged with an Assault & Battery on the body of Margaret Grooshop. JoãN UDworth.-Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., June 28°, 1784. Charged with Stealing two pair of Moreen Shoes, the pro- perty of George Morris. MATHEw DAwson.—Committed by William Rush, Esq., June 28", 1784. Charged with Stealing Sundry Goods the property of Persons Unknown. John Boyd & JAMEs DAVID.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson Esq., June 29", 1784. Charged on Suspicion of Staling some Leather, the property of Mr Willing.
Page 301
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 301 * MARY CARson.—Committed by Jnº. Miller Esq., June 29th, 1784. Charged with an Assault & Battery on the Bodys of Judith Emery and Francis Cooper, Constable. FRANCIs Rose.—Committed by Isaac Howell, Esq., June 29th, 1784. Charged with Suspicion of Felony. John Bougausic & PETER LE CostER.—Committed by Isaac Howell, Esq., June 29", 1784. Charged on Suspicion of Felony by Capt" Stephens, Mendouphin. John NAPP-Committed by William Rush, Esq., July 24, 1784. Charged with Stealing Nine pair of Men's Shoes, & three dollars, the property of George Morris. WM. MURPHEY.—Committed by John Miller, July 3", 1784. Charged with an Assult & Battery on the body of Samuel Powell. JAMES McMULLIN.—Cmmitted by Isaac Howell, Esq., July 3", 1784. Charged with an Assault & Battery on the body of Daniel Murphey, & also Robbing him of 2 half Johannises. : Joseph BRADON.—Committed by Samuel Wharton, Esq., July 5", 1784. Charged with his not finding Securities for his Good behaviour towards Emelia Taylor & Mary Purvis. PHILIP WIEs, Tryed.—Cmmitted by the Supreme Court July 6", 1784. Sentenced by the Supreme Court to pay a fine of fifty dollars, to be imprisoned 3 months, to Give Security for his Good * himself in £500; another security in £250, & to pay Osts. John PARR.—Committed by Isaac Howell, Esq., July 8", 1784. Charged on Suspicion of Felony. BURKLY McDonalD.—Committed by Benj" Paschall, Esq., July 9", 1784. Charged with Stealing a pair of Silver Buckles, the property of Christopher Ibish. DANIEL ETTER.—Committed by the Honorable Thomas McKean, Esquire, July 13", 1784. Charged on Suspicion of Murdering George Fitler. GeoRGE MASMAN.—Committed by William Rush, Esq., July 16", 1784. Charged with taking a false Oath, which he has been Convicted of by a Writting in the Hands of Thomas Bradford. MARY PENDEGRACE.—Committed by Benj" Paschall, Esq., July 17", 1784. Charged by her Husband, Jn" Pendergrace, with Com- mitting adultry. John BURNs.—Committed by Benj" Paschall, Esq., July 17", 1784. Charged by Jn." Pendegrace with Committing Fornication with his Wife. - John LoNG.—Committed by Plunket Fleeson, Esq., July 20", 1784. Charged with an Assault & Battery on the body of his Wife. IsAAC HUSKINs.-Committed by William Masters, Esq., July 20", 1784. Charged with Stealing one Great Coat the property of Mathias Cremer.
Page 302
* 302 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. NICHOLAs FITzGERALD.—Committed by William Rush, Esq., July 20", 1784. Charged with an Assault & Battery on the body of his Wife. HENRY PRossous.—Committed by William Mastors, Esq., July 21", 1784. Charged with Stealing 121b of powder, the property of Capt. John Eve, of Frankford. BARNEY O'NEAL.-Committed by Benjº Paschall, Esq., July 22", 1784. Charged with Stealing a pair Silver Buckles & one pair of Shoes, the property of George Moore. LUKE KEATING.—Committed by the Honorable Thomas Kean, Esquire, July 22", 1784. Charged with Counterfiting & Forging the House of Amos Taylor & Others. His Excellency the President and the Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. In consequence of your Order of the eighth of July, I have ex- tracted from the Record of the Goal for the City and County of Philadelphia, the names and Crimes of all the persons Committed for criminal Offences. THOMAS PROCTER, Shff.” CouncIL OF CENSORS TO PREs. AND CouncIL, 1784. In the Council of Censors, July 26th, 1784. Sir, By an Order of Council of this Day I am directed to request your Excellency & the Hon’ble, the Supreme Executive Council, to inform them “whether any proceeding at your Hon’ble Board is carried on by Balliot,f or silent and secret Vote, and if there be, how such prac- tice accords with the Right to which every Member is entitled of entering his Reasons of Dissent from any proceeding upon the Journals of Council. I have the Honour to be respectfully, Sir, your Excellency's Most obedient, humble Servant, FR'DK A. MUHLENBERG, Presid’t. Directed, His Excellency, the President of the Supreme Executive Council. War office to Pass. DICKINson, 1784. Si War Office, July 28th, 1784. 1r in obedience to the act of Congress of the 3d June last, I do my- self the honor to inform your Excellency that the following Officers, * See page 286. # See page 306. *
Page 303
"PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 303 besides one Lieutenant Colonel Commandant, one Regimental Surgeon and one Mate, will be required of the State of Pennsyl- vania to command her quota of Militia to be raised under that resolution for the defence of the Western posts. Artillery, 1 Captain, 2 Lieutenants. Infantry, 2 Captains, 2 Lieutenants, 2 Ensigns. I have the Honor to be, * With the highest respect, Your Excellency's most obed. H’ble Serv't, JOS. CARLETON. (Public Service.) - His Excellency, The President of Pensylvania. War Office. - Directed, 260—3 Companies & 50 men to the State of Pennsylvania. Calculation. Pennsylvania, 75 men to a Company will be 3 Companies & 35 men. - 2 New York, - - gº 15 tº Connecticut, - - - 2 tº 15 tº Jersey, - - - 1 (g 35 (4 SEC'y ARMSTRONG TO THOMAs CRAIG, Esq., LIEUTENANT OF THE County of NoFTHAMPTON, 1784. Secretary’s Office, Pº, July 29th, 1784. Sir, I beg leave to transmit the enclosed Resolutions of Council of this day”—They will sufficiently explain the Intentions of Government. Captain Boyd & myself have already directed a supply of Ammu- nition to be forwarded to you. We shall exert ourselves to procure an immediate Conveyance for it. The Resolutions which regard the County of Northumberland, are dispatched thither by Express, & we hope that an immediate co-operation may be brought about. I have now to request, from personal as well as public motives, that you will make choice of such Officers as from your acquaintance with them, will best merit your nomination & the Confidence of the State. Enclosed is the additional supplement to the Militia Law, under which you are to act. We propose to set off to-morrow or next day, at farthest, & hope to find ourselves enabled to proceed without any great delay. I am, dear Col., yº Ob. & very humble ser', JOHN ARMSTRONG, jr., Sec'y. .* See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 167.
End of Section 98. Continue to next section or 
Section 99
Page 304
304 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. SEC'y ARMSTRONG TO SHERIFF OF NoHTHUMBERLAND Co., 1784. To the Sheriff of Northumberland, - Philade, July 29, 1784. By the enclosed Resolutions, you will find it the intentions of Government to proceed with the utmost energy against every person. without discrimination, who has outraged yº Tranquillity of the State, —By the 34 Resolution, you will observe the necessity of going hand in hand w” Captain Willson—& with him, awaiting the farther directions provided for by the 4* Resolution. The ground opposite the mouth of Nescopeck Creek, is assigned as the place of Rendezvous. I am, &c., &c., - JOHN ARMSTRONG, jr., Sec'y. Some of ye writs to be executed are enclosed. - Indorsed, - - July 29th, 1784. - - - * SEC'Y ARMSTRONG TO WILLIAM WILSON, ESQ., LIEUT. OF County OF NORTHUMBERLAND, 1784. - Philad., July 29, 1784. Sir, Enclosed you have a copy of some resolutions of Council of this day.* They are of such a nature as to require your greatest possi- ble industry & attention. In addition to them, I have to tell you—that Council, from the confidence they have in your capacity & Attachment, wish you to engage for the supply of the Troops which may be called forth by your Order. The price they propose to give, is 103 D. per Ration. The quantity to be procured must depend upon your own Calcula- tions—for as this business will be subject to much Contingency, it is impossible for Council to hazard a single conjecture on that score. I have also to communicate their wishes, that you will not only pay the greatest attention to the Character of the Officers nominated to the Command of the men, & by all means avoid such as have been distinguished by their predilections to either side of the Question— but that you will also come on with the troops yourself to the ground opposite to yº mouth of Nescopeck Creek, where we will endeavor to meet you with the Northampton Detachment. As it is impossible to calculate with much precision upon the movements of Militia– we cannot venture to name the day on which we shall be there, but the probability is, that we shall reach it before you, as it is our in- * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., page 166. * *
End of Section 99. Continue to next section or 
Section 100
Page 305
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 305 tention to move as expeditiously as possible. If so, we will com- municate with you by letter, or otherwise, & direct to what other point you are to shape your movements. The Sheriff of your County will receive the Orders of Council to co-operate with us, & under the countenance we shall afford, be pre- pared to execute the writs which have been issued by the Judicial authority. You will remember, also, to bring with you whatever ammunition or other public stores that may be deposited at Sunbury; if you should have no powder, you will make a purchase of such quantity as will be necessary for your party, as it might be impru- dent to come forward without it. I have only to add, y' if you should be at the place of Rendezvous before us, you will take such steps as will best secure you against disasters of any kind.—All this command, however, you are to ex- ercise with great address, & let it appear to be rather the effect of advice & persuasion, than the result of authority. - To Capt. Wilson. Thomas CRAIG To PREs, Dickinson, 1784. Easton, July 22", 1784. Sir, I inclose a return of the outstanding fines (except twenty five pounds some shillings that has been collected in the sixth Battalion and paid into the Treasury) in the first, third, fourth and sixth Battalions, for the fall 1783, and of the first, third, and sixth, for the Spring 1784, I have not been able to get a return for the Spring 1784 of the fourth, commanded by Colonel Kean, nor any of the second and fifth, commanded by Colonels Beahm and Stroud. Doubtless your Excellency and the Honorable Council, will think me wanting in point of duty, for not having made this return fully by the first of this Instant, but flatter myself that when, you come to consider how difficult it is to collect them from the different parts of the County, the people they are to be got from, and that I am totally unassisted by prececding examples, you will I hope make just allowance—for permit me to assure your Honorable Body, that I have done everything in my power, except that of putting the law in force, and that should have been done before this time, only that I waited for the abstracts of the outstanding fines, that have been delivered to the Comptroller General by my predecessors, in order to make the business of the collection more easy, and less expensive. I am told there was no orders issued for exercising in the Spring of
End of Section 100. Continue to next section or 
Section 101
Page 306
306 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 1783, and that the Militia did not assemble, consequently their will not be any returns made for that period. I have the honor to be with all due esteem and respect your Excellency's most obedº and most Hble Serv", THOS. CRAIG. Directed,—On public Service, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the Su- preame Executive Council, Philadelphia. A Return of the fines arising from Delinquents in Northampton County on the different days of exercise as made to me by the Commanding Officers of Battalions. Easton, July 22", 1784. For Fall, 1783. For Spring, 1784. 1“ Battalion, 20 24 5 0 & 14 0 0 3° Battalion, 106 15 0 74 0 0 4* Battalion, 65 0 0 | . . . . . . . 6th Battalion, 92 5 0 118 5 0 I do certify that the above return is as true as it is possible for me to make it, from the returns I received from the different Com- manding officers of Battalions. THOS. CRAIG, Lieut Northampton County. PREs. DICKINSON To CouncIL of CENsors, 1784. Si In Council, July 30, 1784. Ir, This Board proceeds by Ballot” only in Elections to Office. I am with great Respect, Sir, your most obedient & humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Honorable Fred'k A. Muhlenburg, President of the Council of Censors * See page, 802.
End of Section 101. Continue to next section or 
Section 102
Page 307
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 307 PREs. DICKINSON TO MESSRS. Boy D & ARMSTRONG, 1784. In Council, August 10, 1784. Gentlemen, We have received your Letter by Captain Schott, and are in Hopes, that when the Insurgents are convinced of the determined Resolution of the Government, to insist upon a due submission to the authority of the people of Penn", they will desist from further violences. - As soon as they are in that Disposition, you will please to have the proper legal steps taken, that those who have disturbed the Peace, of whatever party they are, may be rendered answerable for their Conduct. It shall be our Endeavour, as it is our Duty, to impress this Principle, that it is extreme folly for men to expect, they shall promote their real Interests by a Contempt for the Laws of their Country. The Fortifications at Wyoming we would have levelled and totally destroyed, & the Cannon, arms removed to Sunbury, & their safely deposited. I am Gentlemen, with great Esteem and Regard, Your obedient and very humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, Honble Jnº. Boyd and Lieutenant Colonel John Armstrong. COMM'Rs OF THE COUNTY OF PHILADELPHIA To CouncIL, 1784. To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President, and the Hon- ourable the Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, The Commissioners having been applied to for some of the Iron work of the Old Goal, which induced us to examine the Laws res- pecting the Sale of the Old Goal, Work-house and house of Correc- tion, find by an act passed the 26* day of February, 1773, page 483, that the Commissioners were impowered to make Sale of the Old Goal, &c. By a Supplement to the Act intitled “An Act for erect- ing a New Goal, Work-house and house of Correction, in the City of Philadelphia,” passed 1775, page 523, wherein it is recited, that the Commissioners were impowered by the first mentioned act to sell the Old Goal &c. On a further examination of the Laws, find that by an act passed the 28th day of Feb'y, 1780, page 269, in the third
Page 308
308 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Section, that the power of making Sale of the old Goal &c., is taken from the Commissioners, and vested in the Supreme Executive Council, which puts it out of the Commissioners power to give the applyers an answer. We beg the favour of Council to take it into consideration, and give us their directions. - - We are Gentlemen - Your most Obedient and very Humble Servants, MICHAEL SHUBERT. - JOHN BROOKE.” Philad’, Aug 12", 1784. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President, &c. &c. &c. MICHAEL RYAN TO Council, 1784. To His Excellency the President and the Hon” the Supreme Ex- ecutive Council of Pennsylvania. The Memorial of Michael Ryan, Humbly Sheweth, That your Memorialist being an Inhabitant of this State very early embarked in the Cause of America, and served with reputation in many Capacities, as he can elucidate from General Washington's approbation of his Conduct when he left the Army and other respec- table Testimonials. That your Memorialist continued in the said service between three and four years and when he resigned it was owing to his being injured in his Rank from an accidental appoint- ment which then took place. That as soon as your Memorialist left the Service of the United States he was immediately thereupon appointed Inspector General of the Militia of this State, and thus altogether remained in the Public Service as a Military Character the principal part of the Late War. That your Memorialist obtained Certificates for his depreciation of pay from the Auditors appointed under the act of assembly in that case made and provided which Certi- ficates have been long since transferred and negociated as Money Bona fide and justly due to him. - That a Capias ad respondendum has now issued against your Memo- rialist to recover back of him the am' and value of the said Certificate (being about £547) and your memorialist is now in the Custody of the Sheriff of this City and County. That your Memorialist con- ceives it very Cruel after disposing of a Certificate obtained in man- ner aforesaid to be called upon to refund the same. Your Memorialist conceiving himself very much injured under these circumstances is advis'd to apply to the Hon” House of Assembly for redress. * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 178.
End of Section 102. Continue to next section or 
Section 103
Page 309
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 309 He therefore in the meantime prays your Hon’ble Board will be Pleased to stay and Postpone the progeedings against him and make such order in the premises as to your Wisdom may seem meet. Your Memorialist will ever pray, &c., M. RYAN. Philadelphia, Aug" 13", 1784. Indorsed, - See act for settling Deprec'on Accts, passed 13 April, 1780, & Resolution of the Gen.' Assy of August 27, 1783. Read in Council 17th of Aug', 1784, and rejected. Directed, To His Excellency the President and The Hon’ble The Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. - John SHRIBER TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. S Lancaster, Aug" 16th, 1784. Ir, The Council having appointed me to the Care of the Barracks, Public Store-house & Powder Magazine in this Town, I beg leave to inform them that one of the Gable Ends has lately been broke down by the fall of a Chimney from that part of the Barracks which was lately sold, this accident has laid open some of the Rooms and will receive much injury from the weather indeed the whole of the Bar- racks are in a ruinous situation and unless a new roof is put on the whole barracks will be destroyed in a Short Time. I am Sir Your h’ble Serv", JOHN SHRIBER. PREs. DICKINson To LIEUT. Col. HARMER, 1784. In Council, August 14, 1784. Sir, Agreeable to our Communication of this Day; You will proceed immediately to inlist and embody three Companies of Infantry, Each consisting of seventy Men, and fifty Men as part of Artillery Company. In performing this service, you will please to conform strictly to the following Rules: - First—To guard against Imposition, every Recruit, before his Attestation be signed, is to be carefully examined, least he should Vol. X—14.
Page 310
310 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. have a Rupture, fits, or some other Disease, which may render him incapable of performing the mºre active Duties of a soldier. All such, and also, all persons who have been in the British service at any time during the late War, and also, all persons who have been in the American service and have not been honorably discharged, are to be absolutely rejected, and those of the best Character, both as soldiers & Men, to be selected. Secondly—When an unexceptionable Recruit shall be engaged, you are to take or send him to some justice of the Peace, who find- ing him to be sober, & having read to him the form of the inlist- ment, & attestation is to cause the recruit to sign the said inlist- ment, & then administer to him the oath herewith inclosed duplicate of which attestation and inlistment the justice shall wit- ness. Of these one Copy is to be transmitted to this Board, the other you will retain in your own hands. Thirdly—The inclosed form of inlistment & attestation is to be invariably observed. Fourthly—As an Encouragement for the inlistment of such Recruit, you are authorized to offer on the part of the United States the Pay, subsistence & Rations heretofore allowed to the Troops of The United States, and one months pay after the Troops are em- bodied before their March. Fifthly—Council expect a weekly Report of your progress in this Business till it be concluded. I am, Sir, your obedient & hble. Servt., JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, Lieutenant Colonel, Josiah Harmer. Acknowledgement & Attestation. I acknowledge myself to be fairly & truely inlisted in the Pennsylvania Troops commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Josiah Harmer for the space of one year, unless sooner discharged. In viº whereof, I have hereunto set my Hand this Day of 784. Witness. I do swear to be true & faithful to the United States of America, that I will faithfully serve them in the Troops commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Josiah Harmer for the space of one year from the Date of this attestation unless sooner discharged, and that I will be obedient to the orders of Congress and of the Committee of the State in the Recess of Congress; and to the officers who are or shall be set over me, according to the Rules & Regulations formed for the
Page 311
PENNSYLVANIA ARCIIIVES 1784. 311 government of the late Army of the United States, or such Rules and Regulations, as Congress or a *Committee of the State may form. So help Me. Sworn before Me a Justice of the Peace, A.B. this Day of 1784. Mons. DE MARBOIS TO PREs. DICKINson, 1784. (Translation.) Philadelphia, 15 August, 1784. Sir, I cannot too much thank your Excellency for having furnished me with an opportunity to amend the mistake of the Copyist in the Letter, which I had the honour to write to you on the 8th of June last.* It is so palpable, and the Sense which it presents so contrary to the respect which I profess and Owe to the Supreme Council, that I am really grieved at not having sooner had an opportunity of transmitting to you the original of this Letter. I have the honour to send you an exact Copy of it, and I beg you to consider the other as null as it is so in fact. I eagerly embrace this opportunity of Requesting you Sir, to assure the Council of my unremitted attention to whatever may con- tribute to the maintenance of the Friendship and good Understand- ing between the two Nations, and of the satisfaction which I feel in meeting with the same dispositions in your Excellency and the Supreme Council. I am, * with respect Sir, Your Excellency's Most humble and most obd. Servant, - DE MARBOIS. LT. Col. JosLAH HARMAR TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1784. Philadelphia, August 16th, 1784. The respectable appointment,f which your honorable body has been pleased to confer upon me, and the very polite manner in which it was done, lay me under particular obligations, to your Ex- * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 140. - + Lt. Col. Commandant for protection of N. W. frontiers.-Col. Rec. XIV. p. 177.
Page 312
312 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. cellency and Council. Indeed, I cannot sufficiently express my feelings upon this occasion; I shall therefore endeavour, by a steady attention to the duties of this appointment, to render every possible service to my country, and thereby merit the approbation of your honorable board. I have the honor to be, Your Excellency's & Councils most ob & very hble. Servt., JOS. HARMAR Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., & The Honorable The Supreme Executive Council, Pennsylvania. ELECTION OF COMMISS'Rs To ExAMINE THE SUSQUEHANNA, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly. Tuesday, August 17, 1784. A. M. Agreeably to the order of the day, the House proceeded to the election of a Commissioner (in the room of William Montgomery, Esquire, who hath resigned) to examine the navigation of the Sus- quehanna to the sources of the same, and ascertain as near as conve- niently may be where the northern boundary of this State will fall, particularly whether any part of Lake Erie is within the State of Pennsylvania, &c., conformably to a resolution of the late Assembly, passed the fifteenth day of September last, when the ballots being taken it appeared that Joseph Montgomery, Esquire, was duly elected. - Extract from the Minutes, J. SHALLUS, Ass Clerk of the General Assembly. PREs. DICKINSON TO ROBERT MoRRIs, 1784. Si In Council, August 19, 1784. 1r, - Colonel Harmar has this morning reported to us, that you do not think yourself empowered to furnish the sums requisite for subsisting the Quota of Troops required from this Commonwealth by the Reso- lution of Congress of the third Day of June last, and that therefore he cannot proceed in enlisting the Men, tho’ numbers have offered.
Page 313
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 813 By the seventh of the said Resolutions it is directed, “That the Superintendant of the Finances of the United States take order for furnishing on the Warrant of the Secretary of the War Office, the sums requisite for carrying the foregoing Resolution into effect.” Conformably to the Letter and Spirit of this Resolution the Gen- eral Assembly has by the Late Law founded on the beforementioned Act, ordered, “that the pay, Rations & subsistence of the officers & Men shall be the same as have been heretofore allowed, provided such pay, Rations, Subsistence & other Expenses of raising, supporting & maintaining the said Troops be furnished by the United States.” We are of opinion, that this State ought only to furnish and not to feed the Men; & we should be extremely sorry, that after such prompt & zealous Exertions on the part of Pennsylvania, for accom- plishing the Intentions of Congress, the whole Plan should be now defeated by a Construction put upon their Expressions by any of their own officers. J. D.” Directed, To the Hon. Robert Morris, Esq., Superintendant of Finances. RoBERT MoRRIs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Office of Finance, 19 August, 1784. Sir, I had just now the Honor to receive your Excellency's Letter dated in Council of this Day. I had the Pleasure of a Conversation with Colº Harmar this Morning: In the Course of it I expressed my opinion that as the United States had made a Call for Militia they could hardly have had it in Contemplation to pay any expences of raising Recruits or of supporting them until after they should be assembled in Readiness to obey Orders to be issued by Authority of Congress. I took Occasion also to observe that the States of Con- necticut, New York and New Jersey being at a Distance from the Public Treasury could not apply for Money to defray the like Ex- pences should they pursue the same Mode of furnishing their respective Quotas. Since the Receipt of your Excellency's Letter, being apprehensive lest the Construction I had ventured to put upon the Expressions of Congress should be contrary to their Intentions, I had Recourse to the printed Journal and am rather confirmed in my former Idea. For I find that a motion was made to add the following Clause. “That where the Laws of any State will not admit of their Militia “being called out on the terms prescribed in the foregoing Resolu- “tions such State may be permitted to engage the Quota of Men * Col. Rec. Vol. XIV., p. 182.
Page 314
814 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. * “assigned it, in such manner as the Legislature thereof shall direct.” And I find that this Motion was set aside by the previous Question. I shall not pretend to enquire whether the Act of your Legislature is or is not conformable to the Letter and Spirit of the seventh Reso- lution quoted in your Excellency's Letter. I have great Respect for the Wisdom of the honorable Assembly, I entertain a just Sense of the prompt and zealous Exertions made on the Part of Pensilva- nia, and I should feel much Regret if the Plan were defeated. My Construction of the seventh Resolution is contained in the answer of this Date to a Letter of Yesterday from the Secretary in the War Office of both which I have the Honor to enclose Copies. With all possible Respect I have the Honor to be Sir, Your Excellency's most obedient and humble Servant, Directed, ROBt MORRIS. His Excellency the President of Pensilvania. Indorsed, Read 20th Aug', 1784, & considered. Upon which Col. Harmar was directed to apply to the Sec'ry of the War Office.* No. 1. Jos. Carleton to Robert Morris, 1784. Si War Office, August 18th, 1784. Ir, I do myself the honor to inform you that the Officers lately appointed by the Executive of Pennsyl", have Orders from their Commanding Officer to proceed immediately on the recruiting Busi- ness, who has made Choice of Philadelphia and Lancaster as the fittest place for the Rendezvous of the Recruits. As Provisions will be immediately wanted for their Support, I beg leave to suggest the expediency of temporary Contracts being formed at these Posts for the Supply of the Troops as they are enlisted. I have the Honor to be, Sir, your most obedº Servant, Directed, (Signed.) JOS. CARLETON. Hon’ble Robert Morris. No. 2. Robert Morris to Joseph Carleton, 1784. Office of Finance, 19th Aug", 1784. Sir, - I have received your Favor of the eighteenth. I am clearly of Opinion that it is always best to supply Rations by Contract. You * See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV. p. 182.
End of Section 103. Continue to next section or 
Section 104
Page 315
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 315 will observe that by the Act of Congress of the third of June last, I am directed to take Order for furnishing on your Warrants the Sums necessary for carrying their Resolutions into Effect. Not conceiving myself Authorized by this Act to form any Judgment either on the Amount or on the Application of the Sums in Questicn, I can only say in answer to your Letter, that the Warrants you may think proper to Issue shall meet due Honor. I am Sir, your most obedient & Hum Servº, Signed, ROBt MORRIS. Directed, Joseph Carleton, Esq., Secretary in the War Office. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly. Friday, August 21, 1784. A. M. The report of the committee read yesterday, on the Memorial of one of the Commissioners appointed to examine the navigation of the river Susquehanna to the sources of the same, &c., was read the second time; whereupon Resolved, that an order be drawn by the President in Council on the State Treasurer, in favor of William Maclay, Esquire, for seven- ty three pounds, to be applied for defraying the necessary disburse- ments of the said Commissioners, in the prosecution of the objects of their appointment, and to be accounted for by the said William Maclay Esquire. Extract from the Minutes, J. SHALLUS, Ass Clerk of the General Assembly.* LT. Col. John ARMSTRONG. To CouncIL, 1784. Sir, By a letter from Col. Harmer I find your Excellency & Council have been pleased to Honor me with an appointment in the Conti- nental Reg' under his command. After acknowledgments to your Excellency & Council for their confidence, beg leave to observe that I feel myself hurt in being only appointed as Ensign after having served as Lieutenant in the Continental Army since the 11” Sep- tember, 1777, and lately Honoured by Congress with a Captains Commission by Brevet & while I except my present appointment * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 182.
Page 316
, 316 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. hope your Excellency & Council will give me that rank I held in the Continental army. I am with every Respect your Excellencys hm servº, JOHN ARMSTRONG.” Sunbury, 24th August, 1784. Directed, * His Excellency John Dickinson, Philadelphia. Capt. Green. - LT. Col. HARMAR TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Philadelphia, August 25°, 1784. Sir As it is necessary that the officers previous to receiving their commissions should have taken the Oath of allegiance to the State. I can certify to your Excellency & the Honorable Council that Captains Finney, Douglass, Ziegler & McCurdy, likewise Lieut" Herbert & Doyle, & the Surgeon McDowell have already taken it. The other officers I cannot certify to, but have not the least doubt, but the Oath has been taken by them. Your Excellency and the Honorable Council may be assured that previous to my delivering them their commissions; I will be well convinced that every one shall have taken the Oath. I have the honor to be, with the highest Esteem & Respect, Your Excellency's & the Honble Councils most obt. Servt., Directed, JOS. HARMAR. His Excellency, President Dickinson & The Honorable Council. REPORT & RESOLUTIONS OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1784. State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly, Wednesday, August 25, 1784.—A. M. The report of the committee read August 23, was read the second time, and adopted as follows, (viz.:) The Committee to whom were referred the several papers relating to Indian affairs, with directions to confer with the Supreme Execu- tive Council; beg leave to report as the joint opinion of that Board and your committee. That weighty reasons have occurred in favour of the design for holding a conference with the Indians on the part of this State, and if under the present situation of Continental affairs, that measure can be conducted on sure ground and without too unlimited an ex- pense, it ought to take place and be rendered as effectual as this House can make it, under whose auspices a foundation would be * See Col. Rec., XIV. p. 188.
End of Section 104. Continue to next section or 
Section 105
Page 317
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 317 thus laid of essential and durable advantages to the public, by ex- tending population, satisfying our officers and soldiers in regard to their donation lands and depreciation certificates, restoring that ancient friendly and profitable intercourse with the Indians and guarding against all occasions of war with them. These are the objects to be attained, truly interesting and so well adapted to insure the attention of this House, that your committee offer the following resolutions. - 1st. Resolved that the Supreme Executive Council be authorised and requested to prepare a present of Nine thousand dollars worth of such goods, merchandize and trinkets as are known to be very acceptable among the Indians, to be given them in case a purchase is concluded, but as part of the consideration of such a bargain; And that the said goods be carefully forwarded wherever the commissioners may direct, and the above sum, and any further supply, not exceeding one thousand pounds that Council may think necessary for the said Com- missioners contingent expences shall be drawn by the President in Council from the State Treasurer; the said Commissioners to be accountable for such sum as they shall receive. 2dly. Resolved, it is the sense of this House that should the Continental Indian treaty be delayed, the Commissioners on the part of this State, shall notwithstanding proceed and call together the Indians who claimed the unpurchased territory within the limits of this State, particularly the Six Nations, Delawares and Shawanese for the purpose of finally purchasing the said territory agreeable to ancient usage. 3dly. Resolved, that the Supreme Executive Council be requested to furnish such further instructions to the Indian Commissioners as shall appear from time to time, conducive to the good purposes ex- plained in the foregoing resolutions. Extract from the Minutes. J. SHALLUS, Ass Clerk of the General Assembly. PRES. DICKINSON TO LT. Col. ARMSTRONG, 1784. In Council, August 27, 1784. Sir, It is the sense of Council, that until further Measures can be pursued, the Wheat lately reaped on the disputed Lands should be secured for the use of the persons who sowed the same; and we desire, that you will immediately give strict directions for this pur- pose. I am with great Esteem Sir, your most obdt. Servt., Directed, - JOHN DICKINSON. Lieut Col. Armstrong. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 185. 14+ -
Page 318
318 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. List of Goods necessary towards effecting the purchase of the unpurchased Territory within the State of Penn". 20+ Casks Gun-powder, - - - - . £42 10 1Ton Barr Lead, - - - - - . * 44 00 0 0 2 Gross Thimbles, . . - - - - 17 0 2 ditto Jews Harps, . . - - - - | 7 40 2 ditto Morrice Bells. . . - - - - 9 00 0 5 doz. pieces yellow, green and purple Ribban, . 35 00 0 5 pieces embossed Flannel, - - - - 27 10 0 30 pieces Best London Stroud, . - - . 255 00 0 30 ditto Best French Match Coats, . - . 387 10 0 10 ditto Blankets, . - - - - - 73 10 0 20 pieces Half-thicks, purple & White nap, . - 90 00 0 50 doz. White Ruffled shirts, - - . 525 00 0. 5 Doz. Laced Hats, - - - - ... 105 00 0 50 doz. Knives, - - - - - - 17-10 0 10 doz. Hatchets, . - - - - - 12 10 0 10 doz. Pipe Tomahawks, . - - - - 20 00 0 12 doz. Looking Glasses, (2 Sizes.) . - - 12 00 0 2 M. Awl Blades, . - - - - - 0 10 0 5 M. Needles, - - - - - - 1 15 0 1 C. Wermillion, . - - - - - 56 5 0 50 Rifles, - - - - - - . 300 00 0 60 M. Wampum, 30 Black, 30 White. - - 90 00 0 12 doz. Silver Arm Bands, - - - . 217 16 0 12 d" Wrist bands, . - - - - . 124 00 0 60 ditto Broaches, . - - - - - 36 00 0 2 ditto Gorgets, - - - - - - 34 4 0 12 ditto Nosebobs, . - - - - - 12 00 0 12 ditto Hair pipes, . - - - - - 37 16 0 12 ditto Rings, - - - - - - 9 00 0 6. Pieces Scarlet Broad Cloth, . - - . 180 00 0 100lb Brass Wire, - - - - - - 16 10 0 20 doz. Silk Handkerchiefs, - - - - 50 00 0 20 ditto pieces Calicoe, . - - - - 80 00 0 4 doz. Saddles and Bridles, . - - . 130 00 0 1000 Flints or 1 Kegg, - - - - - 1 10 0 1 Groce Shears, - - - - - - 7 10 0 1 ditto Scissars, - - - - - - 6 00 0 1 ditto Horn Combs, - - - - - 2 8 0 1 Ivory, - - - - - - . - 10 00 0 12 ditto Morrice Bells, (Error.) - - - 9 00 0 1 Hhd. Tobacco, - - - - - 35 00 0 20 doz. Pipes, (Moravian.) - • - - 5 00 0 20 ditto Calicoe Shirts, . - - - . 150 00 0
End of Section 105. Continue to next section or 
Section 106
Page 319
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 319 50 lb. Thread, (sorted.) . - - - - 35 00 0 500 lb. Brass Kettles, in nests, (complete.) - 75 00 0 100 lb. Small White Beads, - - - - 25 00 0 12 Groce Scarlet & Star Gartering, - 12 ditto Green & yellow Bed lace, - 3 Hbds Rum, - - - - 60 00 0 Aug. 28, 1784.” PRES DICKINSON TO LT, CoL. ARMSTRONG, 1784. In Council, August 30, 1784. Sir, We have received your Letter of the 24th Instantt with the in- closures, & have this Day put them into the Hands of a Committee of the General Assembly. That Committee is appointed for the purpose of bringing in a Bill to prevent any Interruption by suit of Certiorari or other writ, to legal proceedings for restoring forthwith to the persons who were violently dispossessed in May last the Lands & Tenements which they then occupied. This Measure is adopted in Conformity to the sentiments of the Board & the Chief Justice, as well as of the Legislative Branch of government, and the Insurgents may be convinced by considering the circumstances existing at the Time when it was adopted, that nothing but a Regard for Equity has prompted it. If they repeat their violences, they will at length render themselves answerable to public Justice for so many offences, that they must expect a very different Treatment, which it is in the Power of this Commonwealth to inflict at the Instant when it is in her Inclination. We therefore desire that you will order the men who are collected at Bowman's Creek, immediately to disperse; & to inform them and others what will be the Consequences to themselves if they continue to disturb the Peace of the State. Captain Boyd proposes to set off for Wyoming in a Day or two, who will bring more particular Intelligence. I am with a very great Esteem, Sir, your most obedt. and Hbble. Servt. JOHN DICKINSON. Licutenant Colonel Armstrong. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 186. # See page 317.
End of Section 106. Continue to next section or 
Section 107
Page 320
320 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. PRES. DICKINSON To Gov. PACA OF MARYLAND, 1784. In Council, Philadelphia, August 30th, 1784. Sir, - When we had the honor of receiving from the Council of your State the Letter of the twenty-ninth of April last, We referred the affair therein mentioned to the Judges of the Supreme Court”, not doubting, but it would be conducted according to the constant usage in similar Cases between this State and the States of New Jersey and Delaware. The Chief Justice and Judge Rush have communicated to us the Objections that have arisen. To expedite the Business, We have sent the Bearer Mr. Joseph Bullfinch, and request that Mr. Henry Carberry may be immedi- ately delivered into his Custody at the limits of Maryland and of this State, in order that he may be brought into this County, and tried for the offence with which he has been charged. I have the honor to be, with great Esteem Sir, Your most obedient humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, His Excellency William Paca, Esquire, Governor of the State of Maryland. INSTRUCTIONS TO COMM’RS FOR TREATING WITH THE INDIANs, 1784. In Council, Philada, August 31st, 1784. Gentlemen, - As soon as you receive information of the time and place where the Continental Treaty shall be held with the Indians, you will consider it your duty to attend the same with ye utmost punctuality and for your better information on this subject it will be advisable to correspond with some of the Continental Commissioners. We inclose a Copy of the Resolutions of the General Assembly of the 25th Instanti by which you will perceive the sense of the Legislature on the subject of your Commission. You will chose the most favourable opportunity of signifying to the Indians your Intention of purchasing ye unpurchased Territory within ye Limits of Penna. & produce at the same time your Com- mission for that purpose, as there can be no doubt but the Conti- nental Commisssoners will readily yield you every possible aid in * See page 74, 292. * See page 318.
Page 321
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 321 your negociations on the part of this State, you will therefore be particularly careful on your side, to facilitate as far as you can, the important business which the United States have committed to them In negociating with the Indians you will regulate your conduct by the principles of Justice as well as the most exact Economy, ob- taining credit for the Goods wh. you may deliver having the Deed of purchase duely executed to the Commonwealth, and fixing the balance yt shall remain due, which balance should be in goods rather than money, as such intercourse may be the means of reviving a Trade with the several Tribes interested; and in this respect, you may depend on the faith of Government for discharging any con- tracts which shall be made by you. In all your deliberations with the Indians you will use your ut- most endeavors to conciliate their affections and gain their confidence rather than irritate their tempers or provoke their resentments. I am Gentlemen, with very great Regard, your obedient and humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON.” Indorsed,—August 31st, 1784. To the Honble. Samuel J. Atlee, Esqr., Wm. Maclay and Francis Johnston, Esq. MEN SHUT UP IN THE GARRISON AT Wyoming, 1784. List of the Men who have been shut up in the Garrison at Wyoming with the Subscribers and the Numbers of Arms & amuni. Public & private property. Luke Brodhead, Jacob Woodcock, James Melvin, Richard Woodcock, Daniel McLaskey, James Culver, Joseph Cavana, Iseah Culver, Joseph Marshall, Preserved Cooley, Abm. Courtright, Peter Taylor, Elisha Courtright, Silas Taylor, John Courtright, v Ebenezer Taylor, Ezekel Schoonover, Benj. Hillman, Peter Cursau, William Sims, Saml. Wangorder, William McKinney, Enos Randle, William Miller, Laurence Kinney, John Hillman, Garret Shoemaker, Jun. Jº Alex. Hoover, Jacob Tilberry, Abm. Hammond, Abm. Tilberry, Alex. Strickland, Peter Stagg, Jacob Van Horn, * A Treaty was held with the Indians & a purchase made at Fort Stan- * wix, Oct. 23d, 1784. See Smith's Laws, Wol. II, p. 123.
Page 322
822 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Jacob Cramer, Jacob Klyne, David McCartney, John Lasley, Robert Clark, Gabrial Ogden, George Tanner Junr., Joseph Montaney, James Covert, John Potman, James Johnston, Ephim. Van Orman, Isaac Van Orman, John Van Orman, Henry Wynn, Obediah Walker, 2 Four Pounders, 1 Swivel, 1 Wall Piece, 98 stand of arms, 33 stand of Arms, 1 Box of Cartridges,”. George Yoman, John Pinsell, Daniel Swartz, Joseph Biggers, John Boreland, George Tanner, Edward Cavana, Garratt Shoemaker, James Stagg, Richard Savage, Laurence Osbourne, Patrick Dunlevey, Joseph King, v. Nicholas Brink, Juba, - State Property, ditto. Private property. Public property. Private property, State property. We the subscribers do Certify upon our Honor, that the above is an exact and true Return of the Men, arms & ammunition that were in Fort Dickinson on the arrival of the Commissioners from the Supr. Executive Council of Pennsylvania at this place. ALEX. PATTERSON, B. W. BALL, SAM. REED, A HENDERSON. Wyoming, August 8th, 1784. I have the honor to enclose your Excellency & the Honorable Council, a statement of the troops at present; since this return has been made, several more men have been recruited—I imagine my Total is about 100.-I have just rec'ed a Letter from Capt. Ziegler dated Aug 24"—wherein his success is but very trifling as yet. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem & respect, Your Excellency's & the Honºle Council's most obt Serv", JOS. HARMAR, Col. Comº. Saturday noon, August 28", 1783. His Exy Jnº. Dickinson, & The Hon” Council.
End of Section 107. Continue to next section or 
Section 108
Page 323
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 823 REPORT OF THE AMERICAN REGIMENT, 1784. Report of the American Regiment under the command of L' Colonel Josiah Harmar—Camp, Western Heights of Schuykill, August 28*, 1784. B. |s|É # ||áš § E|3: 5 'B' |3|_. Remarks. Companies. 3 |* : 5 c | P: B | . # Hjälää| 3 dº º |3|< |S| E- Artillery. Captain Douglass 22 || 1 1, 25 Infantry. Captain Finney 30 3| || 33 Captain Ziegler No acc" yet of his success. captain Macards 2TTTT22 Total 73 || 1 || 5 || 80 JOS. HARMAR. Lt Col. Comº. Attest, STEWART HERBERT, L & Adj. INSTRUCTIONS TO THOMAS PROCTOR, SIIERIFF, 1784. Si In Council, September 1", 1784. 11, Inclosed is a Letter for the Governor of Maryland,” demanding Mr Henry Carberry to be immediately delivered to M' Samuel Bull- finch, deputized by you for the Purpose of receiving and conveying him to the new Goal in this City, to be tried for the Offence with which he is charged. * See page 820.
End of Section 108. Continue to next section or 
Section 109
Page 324
324 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. You will give Orders to Mr Bullfinch to obtain a Deputation from the Sheriff of Chester County, for conveying the Prisoner through that County, & to use the utmost Care & Diligence in bringing him up. We expect M. Bullfinch will convey our Letter without Loss of Time to Govº Paca. I am, Sir, Your most obed servº, JOHN DICKINSON. Thomas Porter, Esquire, Sheriff of the City & County of Phila- delphia. Gov. PACA, of Md., To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. - Annapolis, 5* September, 1784. Sir, I have the Honor to acknowledge yours of the 30” August by Mr Bullfinch.* - - The President of our Council wrote you on the 29* April, that Captain Carberry had been arrested and Recognized by our Judges to appear at our General Court to be held on the Second Tuesday in May: By our Laws, our Courts have Jurisdiction, and may try our Citizens for Treason committed in any of the States against this or any of the United States, and Carberry's Offence was conceived to be of a treasonable Nature: But Congress having recommended that he should be sent to your State, where the Offences were committed, and the Confederation making it a matter of Right that the Offender should be tried where the Offence was committed, if he should be demanded by the Governor or Exccutive Power, our Court did not proceed on the Affair, but held Mr Carberry in Custody, expecting him to be demanded according to the Confederation, on the above Notification from the President of the Arrest and Offence charged; the Court sat almost a Month, and no Demand being made, they took his Recognizance to appear at their next General Court, which will be held the second Tuesday in October next. - When I did myself the Honor of writing to your Judges, on the 20* May, our Court was then sitting, and Mr. Carberry was in Cus- tody ready to be delivered up. I have given the above Detail in order to account for not having Mr. Carbury on the spot to deliver up to your Officer, Mr. Bullfinch. Mr. Carbury shall be immediately informed of your Demand, and I have eyery Reason to think he will voluntarily attend your Judges and surrender himself up. If he does not, our Judges, on his ap- pearance at the next General Court, will deliver him up to the Ex- * See page 322—also, 291.
End of Section 109. Continue to next section or 
Section 110
Page 325
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 825 ecutive, who will forward him to the Limits of this State, giving your Excellency previous Notice of the Time and place, so that your Officers may meet our's and receive him into Custody. With great regard, I have the Honor to be Your Excellency's most obedient humble servant, - Wm. PACA. Directed, º His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq. Mr. Bulfinch. PREs. DICKINSON.To CoMMISSIONERS FOR TREATING WITH INDIANs, 1784. In Council, September 4th, 1784. Gentlemen, We are not informed of any Instructions given by Congress to their Commissioners concerning a Restoration of prisoners. This object appearing important to us, We desire that you may apply to the Continental Commissioners, represent the propriety of the Measure, and strenuously endeavour that all prisoners taken by the Indians during the late War, may be restored. I am, with great Esteem, Gentlemen, &c. Samuel John Atlee, William Maclay & Francis Johnson, Esquire -- CoL. FRANCIS Johnston TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1784. Philade, Sep. 7, 1784. Sir, In conformity to your Excelly's Letter of the 4th Instant, I made application to Årthur Lee, Esq., One of the Continental Com”, for information touching a restoration of Prisoners, and find Congress have given him and his Colleagues particular instructions on that subject, as will appear from Mr. Lee's letter to me of yesterday, A Copy of which I have the Honor to inclose. I am your Excellency's most Obed Hble. Servant, FRA'S JOHNSTON.
End of Section 110. Continue to next section or 
Section 111
Page 326
326 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. ARTHUR LEE To Col. FRANCIS Johnston, 1784. The Hon” Col’ Johnston. Sir, In answer to your enquiries touching the restoring of such Prisoners being, Citizens of the United States, as may be in the hands of the Indians, I have the honor to inform you that the Com- º from Congress are instructed to demand a restoration of them all. In conformity to this instruction, the Commissioners have desired in their Messuages, that all prisoners, White & Black, may be brought to the places of treating to be delivered up, as a proof of the sincere disposition of the Indians to establish peace and friendship. I have the honor to be, with very great esteem, Sº, Your Obt. Servt, (signed) ARTHUR LEE. A Copy—signed ALEX. CAMPBELL, Sec'y. Directed,—Public Service. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President in Council. RESOLUTIONS OF COUNCIL OF CENSORs, 1784. In the Council of Censors, September 7th, 1784–A. M. On Motion of Mr. Bryan seconded by Mr.— Ordered, That his Excellency the President and the Honorable the Council of the State, be requested to furnish the following papers, vig', Governor Trumbull’s Letter to the President and Council men- tioned in the Message to the House of 19th January, 1784. Copy of Colonel Zebulon Butler and others memorial to the Honorable Congress, dated 11th November last. Copy of Report of a Committee of the Assembly of Connecticut, concerning the settlers, west of Delaware &c., dated last fall, men- tioned in Journals of the General Assembly of February 14th, 1784. Copy of the act of Congress appointing a day to hear the allega- tions of Zebulon Butler and others, on the one part, and the private claimants of the State of Pennsylvania on the other. Extract from the Minutes, Saml. Bryan, Secretary, Also Letter from Zebulon Butler & others mentioned 28th May on Minutes of Council. Sam'l Bryan, Sec'y.
End of Section 111. Continue to next section or 
Section 112
Page 327
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 327 SEc'Y ARMSTRONG TO SEC'Y BRYAN, 1784 Sec'rys Office, Philada, September 7th, 1784. Sir, By direction of Council I am to inform you that some of the papers mentioned in the Resolution of The Hon’ble the Council of Censors of this day have been transmitted to the General Assembly, and others were put into the hands of the Att'y Gen'l as one of the Agents of this State for managing the trial for private right of soil to the lands at Wioming—which papers are not yet returned to Council. I am, &ca., James Trimble, for John Armstrong, Jr., Sec'y. I)irected, Sam'l Bryan, Esqr. John REYNoLDs, JAILOR To SHERIFF PROCTOR, 1784. After thanking you for the favour done me, in Communicating z the Contents of a Petition to his Excellency the President of the State, Sent to his Excellency by the most daring & Dangerous Willain, on earth one Liblong: I must beg leave to state the facts as they truly are, & if the least doubt should arise, proof can be made to your satisfaction, & to the public; This Liblong was committed by his Honor the Chief Justice, on the first Day of December, 1784 which follows in these words, foras- much as Andrew Liblong of the City of Philadelphia, Mariner, has been brought before me, & Charged Upon Oath with assaulting, beating, & wounding, George McFreely of Carlisle in the County of Cumberland yeoman, & another person whose name is yet Unknown, so that their Lives is Greatly Despaired of; &c., &c. This Liblong was tryed & Convicted with some other of the same Gang, & fined £100 each to this Commonwealth, & Give Security for their Good Behaviour for one year to Come; This Liblong on the night of the 17th of May last, broke the locks from his Room Door, and then proceeded to the next Room & Liberated all that was in that Room; by breaking the Lock off, & then Joyned both Gangs together making 23 Desperate Blood thirsty Villains in number, then Cutt & broke the fastenings of the yard Door, the Locks & other Fastenings so spoilt are now in my Hands to be seen if Called for; Sir you have already seen them; then the whole party proceeded to the yard, & eight of them with
Page 328
328 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Liblong with a Long knife in his Hand headed them & Effected their escape, I Engaged the Rest of them and subdued them to Confinement, & sent for you Sir to inform you of what had Happened; On the 18th day of May I took such measures as I thought most Adviseable to Apprehend those that Escaped, I went to Mrs. Andersons in whose house two of the wives of two of the Prisoners Lived that Escaped, after some Conversations with the woman I found that Liblong was to be had, & I offered a Reward of ten pounds for Liblong. About Eleven o’Clock one of the women Comes to me and told me that Liblong had just Rode by her House in a Chair with a white Horse in it, & Liblong Dressed in Green Cloths, I then pursued & soon saw Liblong on foot walking down Walnut street, & then I Raised a hue & Cry after him in these words, stop Thief, Liblong kept a Great number of the Citizens off with a Long knife in one hand, & a Pistol in the other, & not one person ap- proached so near as to take him. I myself took the most favourable oportunity & with a stick that some Gentlemen that stood by put in my Hand, I knocked him down & while he was down two of my own men Took him by the feet to keep him from Geting up, & Draged him a piece on his Back & then I discovered his watch Chain Draging on the Ground and I took it from him & have it now. After getting him to Gaol some person Brought his Shoes & Buckles in and gave them to me which I also have, his knee Buckles I had from himself to keep for him, as for any money I never saw, but this I know, he hired the Chair & Horse of Michael Shoemaker in Market Street, & Liblong had no money to pay for the Chair Hire but Mr. Shoemaker's son was going with him for the pay for the Chair & Horse when I Pursued him & took him, & Sir the Beating he Complains of was for threatening your Life & mine. Also you, yourself being personally present and you Remained there untill he was put in Irons & Secured, which is the Very Irons he Complains of, about 50 lb. or less; On the night of the 13th of July about 12 o’Clock, I Discovered No. 4 broke which was the Room Liblong & 13 more was in, & about one half of the number in the Room, the other half was down at the foundation of the Gaol at work, & a Blanket over the hole to prevent my seeing the Light, Liblong Called out with a Loud Voice stand to it Boys, kill or be killed, & as Liblong Commanded I obeyed, I knocked down the first that aproached me, and then the next, & one of them prickt in the Arm with a small sword pled for mercy & he would Discover the Ringleaders, & said that Liblong was the man that proposed the Escape, & after they got out they were to knock at the front door & Get me up by telling me the prisoners were breaking out of the East wing, & by that means Liblong was to lay hold of me & Kill me; upon this news I gave Liblong a severe Beating and put him in a Room by himself about four weeks in the same Irons he has always born, & having him always in my
Page 329
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 329 mind I have waited upon him myself once every Day & permitted a woman that's Confined in the Jail whom he Calls his wife in his Letters to go to him with provisions every Day; Mr. Liblong seems to have a longing Desire to be Released from his Irons & be permitted to be upon the front of the Jail; if that should take place you would need no Jail for there would be no prisoners to ocupy it; Sir, I have here given you only a part of the Conduct & behaviour of Andrew Liblong, Relative to some particulars that he has wrote to his Excellency the president about ;-he also complains of my Inveteracy against him, because he is a Frenchman, there is Lewis Colonel and Charles Goodryon Convicted and fined for the same offence with Liblong & they are Frenchmen, why are they not so ill Treated, because they are orderly, Quiet, well behaved men, & Refused to be Concerned in breaking Jail with Liblong & his party, which is the noted Philips, Conrad and Williams, & the Doans, & sundry others, but Sir this party ought never to be at Liberty Day nor night they are so dangerous a gang, & there is hardly any such thing as keeping these wretches in Irons for they find means to cut them off every Day or two by the assistance of their friends, bringing saws, files, & other Instruments for their purposes, Baked up in pies & Loaves of Bread, witness these kind of transactions every day; Sir, I have paid to a Certain Eliz". Anderson ten pounds for her Information of Liblong, & the full worth of Liblong's watch & Buckles shall be faithfully accounted for or Delivered, but for the present I Cannot give them up to my own Loss or for to answer Mr. Liblong's intentional Escape with his friends before mentioned, which is now Ready pland & waiting for the opportunity to put it in execution but it is the mainspring of the watch is wanted & not the watch. And lastly—Sir, you well know my Care & attention for yonr Interest & my own safety in Conducting the business of your Jail, & beg that the Sheriff will be pleased to give me a Hearing on all such occasions, & if any further explanation should be wanted, I beg to be Called upon, for that purpose & believe me Sir nothing shall be wanting on my side in doing the Duties of my station for your interest & my own safety, & at the same time see that every thing is done that prudence & humanity Dictates for the Relief of the poor and Distressed here; I am Sir with all Due Respect your most obedient & humble servant, JOHN REYNOLDS, Gaoler. September 9th, 1784. Directed, Thomas Proctor, Esquire, high Sheriff of the City & County of Philadelphia.
End of Section 112. Continue to next section or 
Section 113
Page 330
330 ' PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. PRES. DICKINSON TO COMMRS, Boy D, &c., 1784. In Council, September 10th, 1784. Gentlemen, You will perceive by the Resolutions of the General Assembly of the 7th Instant, & our Act of yesterday, inclosed that you are ap- pointed Commissioners, for executing a Trust of Great Importance. Relying on your Integrity, Prudence & Zeal for the public Interest. We shall only say, that we wish the Business may be soon com- pleted. It may be of considerable use, if you could obtain a List of the names of those persons not claiming under Pennsylvania, who have settled at or near Wyoming since the Decree made at Trenton. You will be pleased to observe that the Decree at Trenton was made on the thirtieth Day of December, 1782, & that there are several papers in the Hands of the Clerk of the General Assembly, which might facilitate your Enquiries. These Papers were laid be- fore the House by Mess" W* Montgomery, Moses McClean & Joseph Montgomery, the commissioners nominated in February, 1783. I am, with great Esteem Gentlemen your, most obdt. htle. Servt., JOHN DICKINSON,+ Directed, The Honorable John Boyd, John Armstrong, jr., James Read & John Okely. In Council, September 9th, 1784. Gentlemen, Inclosed are Copies of a Bill published for Consideration, & of certain resolutions of the General Assembly, by which you will per- ceive the Sense of the Legislature. It is our wish that you may use your utmost Influence, for prevail- ing on persons claiming under this State peaceably and immediately to give up possession to those who were violently dispossessed last May. It is proper that two or three Deposition should be taken to prove *See Col. Rec., Vol. XVI., p. 202.
Page 331
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 331 who were concerned in the attack upon Mr. Daniel and his Company at Locust Hill, mentioning their names, the circumstances of the Attack, the wounding of Jacob Avery one of that Company, & his death, in Consequence of the Wound, and that the Deposition should be transmitted to Council. Recognizances should be taken from the Witnesses for their ap- pearance, to give Evidence at the next Court of Oyer & Terminer for the County where the offence was committed, with sureties. I am, with the greatest Esteem, gentlemen, your most obdt. hble. Servt., JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, Captain Boyd, & Lieut. Col. Armstrong. P.S.—We desire that you will exert your Influence, in settling all Disputes Concerning Grain lately gathered or now in the Ground, upon equitable principles. OFFICERS IN THE 4TH BATTALION, BERKs County MILITIA, 1784. - A List of Officers in the 4th Battalion Berks County, Militia, Wiz: George Ax, Lieut. Col. Benjamin Talbert, Major. CAERNAWON TOWNSHIP. Robeson Township. 1 Company. 2 Company. John Robeson, Capt. Mathias Kaler, ºl Aaron Rattew, jr., Lieut. Joshua Stephenson, Lieut. John Harper, Ensign. Peter Moyer, Ensign. y ROBEsoN Township. ExETER. 3 Company. 4 Company. Adam Beard, Capt. John Ludwig, Capt. Elias Redge, Lieut. Abra" Griffith, Lieut. Christopher Kunsman, En. Conrad Teeder, Ensign. Dougi,Ass. - AMITY. 5 Company. 6 Company. Samuel Sands, Capt. David Weidner, Capt. Samuel Avenshine, Lieut. Adam Betz, Lieut. Henry Mauger, Ensign. Mathias Keyler. En’s,
Page 332
332 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. ExETER. 8th, late Col. Ax's Comp'. 7 Company. UNION. John Sneyder, Capt. John Hider, Lieut. Daniel Schneider, Ensign. MAIDEN CREEK. 3 BATTALION. George Widenhammer, } t I do hereby Certify that the above officers are as yet uncommis- sioned, Witness my Hand, Sep 10th, 1784. WALENTINE ECRERTS. Directed, His Excellency, the President and Council, State of Pennsylvania. LEE & BUTLER, CoMMRs., &c., To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Philadelphia, Sept. 11th, 1784. Sir tipon ordering the troops, raised in this State, for the purpose of the Treaty with the Indians, to prepare for an immediate march to Pittsburg, we are informed that several of the officers are absent from their duty; Who they are will be represented to your Ex- cellency by the Colonel commandant of those troops. As the public service requires the immediate attendance of all the officers, and indeed, did require it from the moment of their ap- pointment; We take the liberty of requesting your Excellency and the Council to appoint persons who are present, and who will im- mediately attend to their duty, in the place of those who shall be reported as absent. The attention your Excellency and the Council have hitherto given to the expediting this indispensible support to the Treaty, makes us rely upon a compliance with what we now request. - We have the honor of being, with the greatest respect, Yr Excellency's most obdt. & most humble Servants, - ARTHUR LEE, RICII’D BUTLER. Directed, - - To his Excellency, the President of the State, in Council.
End of Section 113. Continue to next section or 
Section 114
Page 333
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 333 MINUTE OF CouncIL of CENSORs To PREs. DICKINSoN, 1784. In the Council of Consors, Septem: 13th, 1784.—A. M. Ordered That his excellency the president and council be requested to furnish to this Council the papers undermentioned, viz: Letter from General Washington desiring that martial law be declared, dated about May, 1780. Letter from the Commissioners of Philadelphia County, asking directions about the Sheriff's ex- pences at the General Election; It appears to be dated on the 19th, Decem', 1782. - Copy of a resolution of the General Assembly of 1st June, 1780; enabling Council to declare martial law. Extract from the Minutes. SAM’L BRYAN, Secy. INDIAN COMMISSIONERS TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Septr. 13th, 1784. Sir, The expence which will unavoidably attend the Transportation of the Indian Goods & stores to the Northward & Westward makes it necessary for us to apply to your Excellency for six hundred pounds more being the balance of the order for one thousand pounds which the Honble. House of Assembly were pleased to make in our favor for Contingent Expences. We have Sir, the honor to be, your Excellency's most obt. Hble. Servants, SAM J. ATLEE, . JOHNSTON.” Directed, - His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., President in Council. RESOLUTION OF THE GENERAL Assembly, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, 1784. The report of the committee of accounts read September 4, on the accounts of his Excellency the President of the State for repairs done to the mansion house, was read the second time, whereupon. * See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV. p. 205. Vol. X. —15
End of Section 114. Continue to next section or 
Section 115
Page 334
334 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Resolved, that an order be drawn by the Supreme Executive Council for eighty-four pounds two shillings and four pence, in full for repairing the House which his Excellency John Dickinson Esquire now occupies, being the property of the State.* Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk of the General Assembly. Read in Council & order drawn. John ScHREIBER TO SECY. ARMSTRONG, 1784. Sir, I wrote to you sometime since and informed you, respecting one of the Gable ends of the Barrack’s here that has been thrown down by the fall of two stacks of chimneys of Doctor Frederick Kuhn's. I now understand that the Doctor means to remove the Bricks, not only of the Chimney's but also those that were thrown down in the Gable end and convert them to his own use. - Application having been made unto me to Lett the powder Maga- zine at this place, for the purpose of storing some powder the property of some of our Storekeepers, in consequence of which I have applied to William Henry, Esquire, for the Keys of the Maga- zine, who has several time refused to deliver them, untill the pub- lick powder, (which was lately sold) was removed thereout. I should be glad to have your directions on these cases, and am, Sir, your most obedient Humble Servant, JOHN SCHREIBER. Directed, To John Armstrong, Junr., Esquire, Secretary to the Supreme Exccutive Council of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. Indorsed, Sept. 16th, 1784. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly. Saturday, September 20, 1784, A. M. Agreeable to the order of the day the House proceeded to elect six Commissioners for the purposes expressed in the resolutions adopted September 15, and the ballots being taken, it appeared, that David Rittenhouse, Thomas Hutchins and Nathan Sellers, Esquires, were duly elected for performing the duties mentioned in the first, second and last of the aforesaid resolutions; and that * Col. Rec. Wol., XIV. p. 206.
Page 335
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 835 William Maclay, James Wilkinson and William Montgomery Esquires, were also duly elected for the performing the duties mentioned in the third of the aforesaid resolutions. Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS Asst. Clerk, of the General Assembly. REPORT ON THE STATE House, 1784. State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly, Wednesday, September 22, 1784.—A. M. The report of the committee read September 9, was read the second time and adopted as follows, (viz.:) The committee appointed to examine the condition of the State- house, beg leave to report such repairs as appeared most immediately necessary with their estimate of the expence. The turret roof requires new shingling, and a plain cor- nice continued round it to cast the rain clear of the walls. The large outside cornice being in a dangerous condi- tion should be repaired, and the whole of the said wood work painted, the expence including a scaffold of fifty-six feet high for the above purposes, is estimated by your committee at 26.190 00 0 New shingling part of the main roof and repairing other parts, copper gutters in the vallies instead of the leaden ones that are broken, new gutters by the chimneys, repair of the balustrade on the roof, and the roof well painted are estimated at 126 00 0 To repair the ruinous battlements and prevent the dam- age occasioned by water running down between the Walls and Wainscot of the chimnies to the lower story, may cost 7 10 0 Painting the Cornice, doors and Windows with the Gla- ziers bill may amount to ** The turret ceiling very dangerous, may be renewed for about 31 00 0 Copper spouts and a brick pavement of nine feet broad, on the East and West side of the steps to meet that of the Wings, taking up the present pebble-stone pavement and repairing the Mason work of the base of the building may cost 106 15 0 Other necessary repairs to the Stair-cases of the Wings and other parts of the buildings, not before enumerated. 30 50 Painting the Clock faces and guilding the hour lines. 22 10 0 To new cap the old part of the East wall inclosing the yard, and to paint the Southgates, and covering the whole of said walls. 91 5 0 79 00 0
End of Section 115. Continue to next section or 
Section 116
Page 336
336 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Therefore Resolved, that the Supreme Executive Council be authorized and requested to have such repairs made in and about the State-house as in the foregoing report are specified to be immediately necessary; and for defraying the expence thereof; the President in Council shall draw on the State Treasurer for any sum not exceeding seven hundred pounds. Extract from the Minutes. J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk of the General Assembly. Resolution of GENERAL Assembly, 1784. State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly, Thursday, September 23, 1784.—A. M. A letter from Robert Andrews, Esquire, one of the Commis- sioners on the part of the State of Virginia, for ascertaining the boundary line, was read, and on motion, and by special order, the same was read the second time, whereupon Resolved, that the Supreme Executive Council be authorised and requested to draw an order for the sum of one hundred and fifty pounds, Virginia currency, in favor of the said Robert Andrews, Esquire he to be accountable for the same. Extract from the Minutes. J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk' "A" of the General Assembly.” *.* t CouncIL OF CENSORS TO PREs. DICKINson, 1784. In the Council of Censors, Sept. 24th, 1784, Sir, Pursuant to the inclosed Resolution I am to request your Ex- cellency & the Honble the Supreme Executive Council to draw an Order in favour of the Secretary of this Council, for the sum of one hundred pounds, being the remainder of the Sum appropriated by * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 210.
Page 337
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 337 the Gen'l Assembly, to defray the contingent expences of this Board. I have the Honour to be, with the highest respect, Sir, your Excellency's most obdt. humble Servt., FRED'K MUHLENBERG, - Presd. Directed, His Excellency Jno. Dickinson, Esq., President of the Supreme ex. Council. In the Council of Censors, Septm' 24th, 1784.—A. M. Resolved, That in order to defray the contingent expences of this Council, the President request the Honorable the Supreme Execu- tive Council to draw an order on the Treasurer of the State for the sum of one hundred pounds, in favor of the Secretary of this Coun- cil, he to be accountable. Extract from the Minutes. SAM’L BRYAN, Sec'y.* There hath been “one hundred pounds” paid only. JOHN NICHOLSON. Sept. 24th, 1784. LT. Col. Josiah HARMAR TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1784. Philadelphia, September 25th, 1784. Sir, - I have the honor to inclose to your Excellency & the Honorable Council a weekly return of the troops under my command, & at the same time to inform that last Wednesday, the Artillery & Captain Finney's company marched from their encampment for Fort Pitt. In the course of next week the remainder of the troops will march. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem & respect, your Excellency's & The Honorable Council’s most obdt. Serve., JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. come 1“Am" Reg'. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., & The Honorable The Supreme Executive Council. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 212.
Page 338
: WEEKLY REPORT OF THE FIRST AMERICAN REGIMENT, 1784. Weekly Report of the First Americaif Regiment under the Command of Lieut. Colonel Josiah Harmer, Camp, September, 25th, 1784. Present fit for service. - d Alteration since last. § s 3 - . . . . ; Tº - || 3 || rº Q ºld --> • -: #| | | | | |# º # + º § .3 .5 | E | rº So I -t; Companies, ă # 3 à | < | 5 || 3 | * | * | # - * | * § - # #| # || 4 || 4 || 3 || | # # # | 3 | # # ; ; ; - o --> -- -- 3 || 3 | dº | # # | 5 || 5 || 3 || 3 || 3 || 3 || 3 || 5 || 3 || 3: Artillery, Capt. Douglass, 4 || 4 41 1 50 Infantry, Capt. Finney, 3 || 1 60 | 1 1 66 Capt. Zeigler, 3 || 4 52 || 1 || 2 7 69 2 Capt. McCurdy, 1 2 46 || 11 1 9 || 1 71 Total, 11 | 11 | 199 || 13 || 8 2 16 256 2 | NB. the Artillery & Capt. Finneys extra men, Sick Abt. Company are on their march to Fort 1 with the Doctor, 2 in Philadelphia, Pitt. 1 with Gen. Butler. 1 at Towningstown. JOS. HARMER, Lt. Col. Com. DAVID ZIEGLER, Capt.
End of Section 116. Continue to next section or 
Section 117
Page 339
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 339 To HoN. JoHN BOYD, JoHN ARMSTRONG, JR., JAMES REED, John OKELEY, 1784. In Council, September 28th, 1784. Gentlemen, We have received your Letter of the 24th Instant, & are concerned, that such a spirit of violence prevails among the settlers. As Captain Boyd & Coll. Armstrong have had opportunities of acquainting themselves with many Circumstances relating to the late Disturbances, it is our wish, that they may immediately repair to Philadelphia, that we may receive from them all necessary Information. Messrs. Read & Okely are impowered to proceed in the Execution of the Commission; and we hope, that when the nature of it is fully made known to the deluded People who have been so trouble- some, they will perceive, that it is dictated by a Desire, to treat them with Equity. If such interruptions shall be given to the proceedings of these two Commissioners, that they cannot with safety discharge the trust delegated to them, their presence at Wioming will be useless for the Business is of such a kind, that it cannot be accomplished but in free Conference, with the settlers. An armed force would not promote it; and besides such a measure would not be agreeable to the sense of the Legislature. We rely upon the Prudence & firm- ness of the Commissioners, that they will make every possible effort before they relinquish an affair of so much importance. I am. P. S.—With Respect to Grain raised on disputed Lands it appears to us upon a Consideration of all Circumstances equitable, that it should be divided among the Claimants in an amicable manner so that their present necessities may be as much as possible relieved, & those that may reasonably be apprehended in the approaching winter, be prevented. We should be glad to know in particular the names of those settlers who were expelled last spring, & of such of them as are now again repossessed of their Houses, Lots or Lands. WRIT FOR ELECTION IN BUCKs Co., 1784. Pennsylvania [Ss.] Jehn Dickinson. The President and The Supreme Executive Council of the Common- wealth of Pennsylvania. To Adam Hay one of the Constables of the District of the Town- ships of Easton and Forks in the County of Northampton, and Andrew Ledlie and Jacob Abel Assistants to the said Adam Hay
Page 340
340 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. at an election held in the said District on the sixteenth day of June last, upon a vacancy occasioned by the Expiration of the Commis- sions of John Arndt and Thomas Sillyman Esquires. Whereas an Election was held in the District of the Townships of Easton and Forks in the County of Northampton, on the sixteenth day of June last, by virtue of a Precept of Robert Levers, Esquire, bearing date on the fourth day of the same month, and to you the said Constable directed, upon a vacancy occasioned by the Expiration of the Commissions of John Arndt and Thomas Sillyman, Esquires, late Justices of the Peace in and for the said County, and the IReturn of the said Precept hath been made, certified and delivered under your hands and Seals respectively, and under the hand and Seal of Peter Leip, Inspector of the said election; And Whereas the said Election hath been by us considered and declared void, We do by these Presents authorize and Command you the said Adam Hay, Andrew Ladlie and Jacob Abel to hold an Election upon the Twenty-seventh day of this month at eleven o’Clock in the Forenoon of that day, within the said district, by the Freeholders of the same, of four Justices of the Peace elect, to supply the vacancy occasioned by the Expiration of the Commissions of the said John Arndt and Thomas Sillyman, Esquires, and to certify and deliver the Return thereof, according to the Act entitled “An Act to remedy the defects “of the several Acts of Assembly heretofore made for regulating “the Elections of the Justices of the Peace throughout this State “ and to establish a permanent mode of holding such Elections and “to authorize the Justices of the Peace of Philadelphia, to hold the “Courts of Record of the said City;” And you the said Constable are hereby further required to affix a notice in Writing of the issuing and design of this Precept and of the time and Place, when and where such Election is to be holden, at six or more of the most public Places within the same District at least ten days before the Twenty-seventh day of this month. Given in Council under the Hand of His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President and the Seal of the State at Phila- delphia, this Seventh day of September in the year of our Lord, one thousand seven hundred and eighty four. Attest, James Trimble for John Armstrong, jun’r, Sec'y. In obedience to the within Precept we the Subscribers the Judge and one of the assistants within mentioned met with the other assistant Andrew Ledlie at the Court House in Easton on the Twenty Seventh day of September within mentioned, and at the Time therein appointed to hold an Election of Four Justices of the Peace for the District of Easton and Forks as we are therein authorised and commanded. That when we were about to open the
End of Section 117. Continue to next section or 
Section 118
Page 341
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 3 || 1 said Election, the said Andrew Ledlie first hesitated & afterwards refused to attend the said Election, and went out of the Court House, so that the Subscribers after waiting in the Court House till after two o' the clock in the afternoon had it not in their power to open and carry on the said Election as within commanded. Witness our Hands the Twenty Eigth day of September in the year of our Lord one Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty Four. - - JACOB ABEL, ADAM HAY. ROBERT LEVERs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Si Easton, September the 28th, 1784. Ir, I had the Honor to receive from your Excelleney in Council a Letter, enclosing a Precept for holding an Election in the district of Easton and Forks, the twenty seventh instant—Immediately I sent to Mr. Adam Hay, the Constable and Judge of the Election, read to him the Prečept and the Letter, delivered the former to him, and requested he would make known the contents of the letter to Mr. Ledlie and Mr. Abel in particular—A day or two after, Mr. Abel called on me, and I produced to him, and to as many as desired to see the contents. Yesterday being the twenty-seventh, the day fixed by the Supreme Executive Council for holding the Election, the Freeholders of the district met at the Court House, the place appointed in the adver- tisement, when some difficulties were started by the assistants; on perusing the Letter from your Excellency in Council, viz', that no particular reason had been assigned by the Council for the deter- mining the Election void, and that therefore they knew not upon what ground to go on, and how to conduct the Election—Mr. Ledlic said he could not consider the Letter in any other manner than as a private Letter to me—In answer to these objections, I could not forbear remarking, that the subject matter of the Letter plainly indicated it to be of a public nature; that the whole of the Letter plainly pointed out the Reasons for the Election having been declared void by Council, and that the Letter came directed to me, on public service, as Prothonotary of the County, and with it the Precept from the Supreme Executive Council for holding the Election, which precept was in their Possession, and of a very public nature. Mr. Peter Seip, the former Inspector, declined serving at this Election, as he was in his way, as I was told, to Philadelphia, and the Freeholders were about to chuse another inspector, when Mr. Ledlie declared he would not act as an assistant—On which I pointed out to Mr. Ledlie from the Law, and endeavored to convince him that the Election could not be held without him. It was then said, Col. Stephen Balliet, - 15%
Page 342
342 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. our Representative in Council, was in Easton, and the Freeholders requested that Gentlemen might be consulted. Accordingly, Mr. Ledlie waited on him, and Col. Balliet came into the Court House— And being requested by the assistants, that he would please to let them know for what Reasons the Election had been overset, Col. Balliet answered, that the Election had been declared void by Council, because the Poll had been opened after it had been closed—And added, that least, upon the Election ordered anew, any misunder- standing among the inhabitants might happen, Council had thought proper to give some instructions concerning the several objections that had been made against the Proceedings in the former Election, that the future Elections might be regularly held, and that the instructions were contained in that Letter sent to me by your Excel- lency in Council with the Precept. Upon this Information from Col. Balliet, the Judge of the Election, Mr. Adam Hay, and Mr. Jacob Abel, one of the assistants, agreed to open the Election directly; but Mr. Ledlie positively refused to attend the Election, and went out of the Court House to the great dissatisfaction and disappointment of the most of the Freeholders present who could not forbear, many of them, to declare their indignation against a man who would thus insult his countrymen, affront the Supreme Executive Power of the State, and despise and trample on the Laws of his Country—Never- theless, they retained their anger within due bounds, and, like virtuous citizens, after patiently waiting till after two o'clock in the afternoon, proclaimed that they were ready and willing at all times to come forth again to assert their Rights, support the Freedom of Election and the Laws of their Country. I judged it necessary to give your Excellency in Council this detail of the Proceedings, with as much expedition as possible, and do enclose the Precept delivered to me by Mr Adam Hay and Mr. Jacob Abel, with their Reasons for not holding the Election as they had been authorized and commanded. There has no Precept, as yet, been issued for holding an Election of Justices of the Peace, for this District, on the vacancy occasioned by the expiration of the Commission which appointed Abraham Berlin, Esq., & myself, Justices of the Peace—which ended the fifth day of August last; And the delay has been occasioned on this account—The Law, wherever there is a County Town in the district, authorizes the Freeholders in that district toelect Six Justices of the Peace. At the Election lately held, Four Persons were chosen, to supply the Places of Thomas Sillyman and John Arndt, Esquires, whose Times had expired. We were at a Loss to known how to act; for as there was a vacancy of Two other Magistrates also in the district, Mr. Berlin and myself, we apprehended if four Persons were chosen, it would be contrary to Law, and if only Two were chosen, there would be no choice left for the Supreme Executive Council. Upon consulting Col. Balliet yesterday, he advises the Election of Two only, in the stead of Mr. Berlin and myself, and that
Page 343
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 343 Council, on the Return of the Precept, may appoint One or more- So that it has since been determined upon to apply to a Magistrate for a Precept for the Election of Two Persons to be elected for the above Purpose—It being found extremely inconvenient having no #. of the Peace in this district, and more especially in this Own. I am, with very great Respect, - Sir, your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servant, ROBERT LEVERS. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire. SURGEON McDowell. To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. His Excellency the President and the Honble Members of the supreme executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvº. Gentlemen, - When the Trooſºmarched this morning, three men were left on the Ground too sick to go on with the Detachm'. I am of opinion that they would be able to follow the Reg' in the Course of two or three weeks, if they were properly attended to; It is a pity to leave them lying on the Ground friendless and moneyless. I therefore ordered them with the advice of Col. Harmar to be removed to Car- penter's Hall, where they must stay untill I have the Pleasure of your Commands concerning them. I have the Honor to be, § Gentlemen, your most obdt. Humble Servt., JNO. McDOWELL, Surg. 1st American Regt. Phila, Sept. 30th, 1784. SECR'Y ARMSTRONG. To JoHN WEITZEL, 1784. Sir, It is the desire of Council that you will procure and transport a Quantity of Provisions, Wiz: Flour, Beef, salt & rum as imme- diately as possible to Wyoming—there to be deposited under the care of such person as you may appoint to receive it; you may calculate upon 100 men for a fortnight. The emergency which makes this business so extremely interesting to Council & important
Page 344
344 PENNSYLVANLA ARCHIVES 1784. to the State, will not admit of a moments delay & makes it neces- sary again to engage your industry and management in the service of the public. I, am Sir, with the highest respect, &c., &c., JOHN ARMSTRONG. Phila., 1st October, 1784. Directed, Mr. Weitzel, Northum" Cº. To HENRY ANTEs, Esq., SHERIFF of County of NoFTHUM- BERLAND 1784. S Philada., Oct. 1, 1784. Ir, You are hereby directed to proceed immediately upon the receipt of this, to raise the Posse Commitatus of the Co. of Northumberland and with them proceed under the direction of the Magistracy to ap- prehend & secure the persons concerned in the late Violation of the Peace at Wyoming, & more particularly the Wºrsons whose names are hereafter mentioned. John Swift, John Franklin, Ebenezer Johnstone, Phineas Peirce, Elisha Saterlie, Joel Abbot, Water- man Baldwin, Phineas Stevens, William Jacques, Ishmael Bennet, jr., Benj" Sills, Wm. McClure, Daniel Gore, Abraham Westbrook, Abraham Pike, Wm. Ross, Gideon Church & Richard Halsted. I am, &c. JOHN ARMSTRONG, Sec'y. To THE MAGISTRACY of Northumberland Co., 1784. Philada., Oct. 1, 1784. Gentlemen, The late Violations of the Peace at Wyoming & abuse of the Commissioners sent thither to promote the designs of the Legislature will call for every exertion in your power. A spirit so alarming to the honour of the State & the Tranquility of its Inhabitants will deserve the most exemplary punishment. The orders of Council, will be found more explicitly declared in their letter to the Sheriff of your Co., & point out the immediate necessity for your personal attendance on this business. - I am with great Esteem, Gentlemen, yr. ob. & very hble. Servt., JOHN ARMSTRONG. - Sec'y. Directed,—To The Magistrates.
Page 345
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 345 LT. Col. HARMAR To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Philadelphia, October 1st, 1784. Sir, Agreeably to Instructions received from your Excellency & the Honorable Council, I have the honor to transmit you Copies of the several Inlistments for the troops raised in this State. Yesterday the remainder of the men, viz: Capt. Ziegler's & Capt. McCurdie's Companies marched from their Encampment on Schuyl- kill river for Fort Pitt. I have the honor to be, with the highest Esteem & respect, your Excellency's & The Bonorable Council's most obd. Servt., JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Com'g 1st Am" Reg'. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., & The Honorable The Supreme Executive Council, Pennsylvania. SEC'Y ARMSTRONG TO County LIEUTs. For BUCKS AND BERKs, 1784. Phila., Oct. 1, 1784. Sir, It is the direction of Council, that Fifty Men, properly arm’d, accoutred & Officered, be immediately drawn forth from the Batt” of Bucks [or Berks] Cº Militia, & mov’d with all possible expc- dition to George Kline's, in Lower Milford Township, & place com- monly called Hosenhaason. You will be pleased to accompany them thither, & remain with them untill the farther Orders of Council; & As the emergency upon which this detachment is called out, will admit of no delay. It is expected that you will take some means to furnish them with pro- visions for a day or two after they reach the place above-mentioned, when some other mode of supply will be adopted. All possible Care is to be taken that the troops come out properly prepar'd for the most active service—& it is the express order of Government that you call upon the whole Reg until you get the aforesaid Number so prepar'd. I am, sir, &c., with much respect, yr. ob. & very humble servt., JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. Ammunition shall meet them at the place of Rendezvous.
Page 346
346 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. COMMISSIONERS FOR INDIAN TREATY TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Fort Stanwix, Oct. 4*, 1784. Sir, We embrace the opportunity which is offered to us by the return of Monseiur Marbois, to inform your Excellency and the Honorable Council, of our safe arrival at this place after a tedious Journey. Sundry unexpected delays have retarded the Treaty, And the con- ferences were not opened till yesterday, when they were begun with four of the six Nations; the Business, in our Opinion, would not have commenced so soon had it not been at the instance of the Marquis De la Fayette, who wished to address the Indians, and was under the necessity of departing this day, or to-morrow. The Commissioners did not enter fully into the business of their appoint- ment, they explain'd the purpose of the Treaty, introduced the Mar- quis De la Fayette & Monsieur De Marbois in Character of the Minister of France. The Marquis Addressed them, praised those who had adhered to us in the late War—blamed those who had been our Enemies with freedom; their Answer was pertinent, and breathed the spirit of peace. The Mohawks, in particular, declared their repentance for the Errors which they had committed. We were likewise introduced to them by the Continental Commissioners.- We have Intelligence that Ten Tribes of Indians are on their March for this place, great part of whom are expected to Morrow. When these Indians arrive, the Commissioners will proceed (we are fully satisfied) with all possible diligence.—Nothing has been done Offi- cially in the Business of our appointment; but we beg leave to assure you, that we are not a moment inattentive to the Object of our Mission. We are happy in a perfect harmony with the Conti- nental Commissioners, Altho' we have had many cross accidents and embarrassing circumstances from other Quarters. The delays which we have experienced,(& which we know have been unavoidable,) have indeed given us pain; But, we know that our only resource is patience, and we are determined to use it. We will not venture to give any certain Opinion as to the final Issue of our business, and can only say, that the disposition of the Indians now Assembled appears to be favorable. We have the Honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellency's most Obedient & very Hum'l Serv'ts, SAM. J. ATLEE, Wm. MACLAY, FRAS. JOHNSTON. Directed,—Public Service. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President of the Supreme Exec. Council for the State of Pennsylvania.
End of Section 118. Continue to next section or 
Section 119
Page 347
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 347 GRAND INQUEST To CouncIL, 1784. To the Honourable the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. The Grand Inquest for the City and County of Philadelphia, do represent, That from the uncommon importation of Gunpowder lately into this City, and the inadequate size of the Publick Magazine to the pur- poses intended—The City is now exposed to very great and immi- ment danger. That many hundred Quarter Casks of this dangerous commodity is now kept in various places within the City and suburbs, to the immediate danger of the lives and property of the good Citizens thereof. Therefore, the Grand Inquest requests the Honourable Supreme Executive Council to take the alarming situation of the Inhabitants into their instant and serious consideration, (as the danger to be apprehended in case of Fire is truly alarming,) and adopt such measures for the safety & protection of the City, as to their Wisdom may seem meet. Signed by Order of the Grand Inquest, this 29* September, 1784 WILLIAM RUSH, foreman. PREs. DICKINSON TO MAGISTRATEs, 1784. (Circular.) In Council, October 6, 1784. Gentlemen, In pursuance of the Act of which a Copy is enclosed, it becomes my duty immediately to direct that some two or more of the Justices of the Peace in & for the County of Northumberland, proceed forth- with in executing the Laws relating to forceable Entries & Detainers, in Order that the several persons, who in the Month of May last were violently .."; their Messuages, Land & Tenements, at or near Wioming, which they then occupied, may be restored to the Possession of the same. - Confiding in your Zeal for Justice, Peace & good order, I desire that you will proceed accordingly. With great Regard, I am, Gentlemen, your most obed & hble. serv", JOHN DICKINSON. John Buyers, Christian Gettig, Andrew Culberson, John Seely & David Mead, Esquires.
Page 348
848 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Copy—PETITION OF AARON DOANE, 1784. To His Excellency, John Dickenson, Esq., Governor of the State of Pennsylvania & President of the Executive Council. The humble Petition of Aaron Doane, a poor unhappy Man, now under Sentence of Death in the Goal of Philadelphia. Most humbly Sheweth, That your unfortunate Petitioner deeply Impressed with a full Sense of your merciful Generosity for the Extension of a few days Life, most humbly throws himself at thy Mercy Seat praying thy Compassion, Humanity, and Mercy. - Innocent of the Crime laid to his Charge, Outlawed & being absent from the State, which hinder'd his knowledge thereof, He is now Condemned to Suffer an Ignominious death, unheard or even Tried, to know if he was guilty of the Crime or not. Oh thou Great Ruler, to whom the Laws have given the Power of being the Dispensor of Life and death—Seal not my Death- Have mercy on an innocent Man—Shed not my Blood unheard or Tried—If by the Outlawry I am to Suffer—Consider thou great Governor, my Innocence, my not being Tried, not being heard and the Power vested in thee, to Extend it to Objects of Mercy—Save then my Life oh gracious Judge—Let Mercy and Compassion preside in thy Breast over Rigorous Law—Let thy Government be Crowned by Lenity, Moderation, & Mercy, not Rigor or Resent- ment—Pardon thy Suppliant Petitioner, Extend thy mercy towards him—Give thy distressed Servant another Sentence—Bannish to other Territories thy unfortunate Suppliant—But Let not thy humane hand Seal my Death, Unheard or Untried, but Shew thy Mercy; and may the Almighty Dispensor of Life and Death, take thee in his Charge will be ever the prayer of the wretched unfortunate, AARON DOAN.E.” " New Goal, 17 Oc', 1784. - Directed, - His Excellency, Jno. Dickenson, Esq.", Governor of the State of Pennsylvania. * REPAIRs of STATE House, 1784. J. Pearson requests the Homble Council will be pleased to favor him with an Order on the Treasurer for Two hundred pounds to purchase several materials, and to pay for others already bought for reparing the State House. Great part of this sum is now necessary and the whole within Ten days. * He was pardoned, March 28, 1785. See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 387, 388–893. A person of the same name was reprieved under the gallows at Newark, N.J., July, 1788. —Shallus’ Tables, Vol. 2, p. 69. -
Page 349
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 849 Also requests an Order on Mr. Joseph Stiles for such ropes and Takle Blocks that are in his possession belonging to the State and for a wheel barrow or two." Homble Executive Council. Oct. 19th, 1784. WARDENs of PHILA. To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Warden's Office, Philadelphia, October 26th, 1784. Sir, We have the honor of inclosing sundry Reports relative to the removing of the Chevaux de Frize for the satisfaction of Your Ex- cellency and the honorable Council, from which as well as from every other Circumstance we conceive all obstruction to the Naviga- tion, comprised within the Contracts made with Mess” Levi Hollings- worth and Arthur Donaldson are effectually removed in Consequence of which we have given those Gentlemen a Certificate. We have the honor to be, with the greatest Respect, Your Excellency's Most obedient and very humble Servants, . by order of the Board, Directed, FRANCIS GURNEY.t His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President. Port of Philadelphia, Warden's Office, October 26th, 1784. We do hereby Certify that Mess” Levi Hollingsworth and Arthur Donaldson have not only removed and destroyed forty-nine Chevaux de Frize, but from the Reports of the Pilots employed in sweeping the Bed of the River in the Neighbourhood of Mud Island and Billing's port, we have every reason to believe that they have also removed all the Frame that were Obstructions, and that the naviga- tion in both the Eastern and Western Channel is rendered perfectly safe. FRANCIS GURNEY, SAMUEL CALDWELL, GEORGE ORD, NATHANIEL FALCONER, JOHN HAZELWOOD, JOS. BULLOCK.f A true Copy. James Trimble, For John Armstrong, Jun'r Sec'y. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 235. # See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 241. f See Col. Rec., XIV., p. 241.
Page 350
350 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. PRES. DICKINSON TO LEVI PIoILINgsworth & A. DONALD- SON, 1784. In Council, October 28th, 1784. Gentlemen, The Certificate from the Wardens of this Port gives us great Satisfaction, and we have drawn an order for the Payment of the Ballance due to you. We cannot deny ourselves the Pleasure of expressing upon this occasion, our sense of the Attention & Ingenuity exerted in remov- ing the Chevaux de Frize, and of the very great service thereby rendered to our Fellow Citizens. I am, with much Respect, Gentlemen, your most obedient and very humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON.” Directed, Messrs. Arthur Donaldson and Levi Hollingsworth. Pars. Dickinson to Moss. MARBOIs, 1784. Si In Council, October 30th, 1784. 1r, We inclose the concluded proceedings of the Supreme Court in the Case of Charles Julian de Longchamps, and it is with much Pleasure we observe the Respect therein manifested for the Law of Nations. I am with great Regard, Sir, your most obedient & most humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, Mr. Barbe de Marbois. PREs. DICKINSON TO MINISTER OF UNITED NETHERLANDs, 1784. In Council, October 31st, 1784. Sir - We inclose the final proceedings of the Supreme Court of justice * See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV., p. 241.
End of Section 119. Continue to next section or 
Section 120
Page 351
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 851 in the Case of Charles Julian de Longchamps; and observe with Pleasure the Respect thereby manifested for the Law of Nations. I am, with very great Esteem, Sir, your most obedient and most humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Minister of the United Netherlands. Mons. MARBOIs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. (Translation.) Philadelphia, 1st November, 1784. Sir, I was informed on my journey that the Court of Oyer & Ter- miner had passed Judgment on the Frenchman who became guilty of a crime against the Law of Nations. I immediately repaired hither to be informed from your Excellency of the tenor of this Judgment. My Brother delivered me on my arrival the Extract from the Record which you have been pleased to send him the day before yesterday; I shall transmit it to the King's Ministers, & wait on Congress with the orders which his Majesty shall think pro- per to cause to be directed to me. I am with respect, Sir, your Excellency's most humble & most obedient servant, DE MARBOIS. Directed, - His Excellency, the President of the State. TESTIMONIALs of P. S. DUPONCEAU, 1784. Je rends avec plaisir à M. Du Ponceau le témoignage qu'il m'a paru dans toutes les occasions se conduire de maniere a meriter la confiance du public et je pense que ses talens et sa bonne conduite le rendent digne de l'emploi, qu'il, sollicite. Philadelphie le 26 8ber, 1783 Francisco Rendon. Jacq. Lacaze. Jh. Th. Carré. Onfray Lainniere. P. D. Robert. Du Bey. Benj. Terrasson. C. P. Raguet. P. Barriere. N. Perre. Chev. de la Luzerne. Mallet. Ch. Carré. Marbois. N. Raguet. Fred. Divoux. Barbé. E. Hüttner. Dumont. Jamcs Wanuxem.
Page 352
352 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. STEUBEN TO PREs. DICKINSoN, 1784. Nov. 3rd, Sir, Mr. Duponceau, who will have the honor to deliver your Excel- lency this, was with me four years as Captain & aid de Camp in which time I had continual proofs of his capacity & conduct, after- wards he served as assistant Secretary in the department of foreign affairs with the approbation & esteem of its head & of those who were joined with him. He is now a Citizen of Pennsylvania, & offers his Service to the State as a notary &c., for which affair he possesses all the necessary qualifications. As I am particularly interested in the wellfare of this young Gentlemen who came with me from Europe, I take the liberty to recommend him to your Excellencys protection & assis- tance, which will lay me under the greatest obligations, with the greatest respect, I have the honor to be Sir, your Excellency obedient Servant, STEUBEN, H. M. His Excy. Gov. Dickinson, PETITION OF P. S. Du PoncEAU, 1784. To His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President and the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Petition of Peter Stephen Du Ponceau, of the City of Phila- delphia, Humbly Sheweth, That the office of Notary Public & Interpreter for the French & Spanish Languages having become vacant by the death of the late Paul Fooks, Esquire, the mutual intercourse between the Citizens of this State and foreigners has greatly suffered from the want of another persons being appointed in his place. That the number of foreign- ers who daily flock to this City to enjoy the benefits of an unre- strained commerce, having greatly increased since the peace, their ignorance of the language of this country lays them continually under very great difficulties, and that the appointment of a successor to Mr. Fooks, would greatly tend to the advantage of Commerce & facilitate an intercourse with foreigners in this state. Your Petitioner takes the liberty to represent to your Excellency & the Honorable Council, that he has made the study of foreign languages, & particularly of the French, Spanish & Italian, the
Page 353
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 853 object of his particular attention. He is a Citizen of this common- wealth, & has served the United States from a very early period of the late war, first as a Captain in the continental army & aid de Camp to major General Steuben, and afterwards as under Secretary for foreign affairs. Upon the cessation of hostilities he has retired to private life. Not being favoured with the gift of Fortune, he wishes to support himself by an honest industry, & to enable him- self at the same time to continue the study of the Law which is the immediate object of his pursuit. Your Petitioner therefore prays, That the Honorable Council will be pleased to appoint & com- mission him to be a notary & Tabellion public for the English, French, Spanish & Italian languages, & Interpreter for the same, in the room of Paul Fooks, Esquire, deceased. That they will be pleased to allow him to exercise the same powers of administering Oaths and affirmations &c, as are mentioned in the Commission granted by the Honble. Council to the said Paul Fooks, Esqr., & that they will invest him with the same offices, powers & authorities, with which the said Paul Fooks by the above mentioned commission was invested. And your Petitioner as in duty bound shall ever pray &c., PETER. S. DU PONCEAU. Philadelphia, 30th October, 1783. Being well acquainted with Major Du Ponceau, and having had frequent opportunities of observing the Ease and Readiness with which he hath interpreted and translated different foreign Langua- ges into English. We do certify that from the best Judgment which we are able to form, and from the great satisfaction which he hath given as well as from his good Character we believe him to be a well qualified and very proper Person for the office or Appoint- ment in ye foregoing Petition prayed for. Jacob Rush, Wm. Lewis, Alex. Wilcocks, Dan. Clymer, Jona. D. Sergeant, John D. Cox, Robt. Morris, Jared Ingersoll, Stuben, H. M. James Wilson, PREs. DICKINsoN To GoverNOR OF North CAROLINA, 1784. In Council, November 5th, 1784. Sir We are informed, that Amos William also is charged with being an accomplice in several Robberies Burglaries & Felonies committed iu this State, & has fled from Justice, is now in the District of Hillsborough in the State of North Carolina, Wetherefore think it our
End of Section 120. Continue to next section or 
Section 121
Page 354
354" PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. duty to request, that he may be delivered up to Amos Baily, the Bearer, in order to be removed to this State. I am with great Esteem Sir, your most obedient, and most humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, His Excellency the Governor of North Carolina. PREs. DICKINSON To Gover Nor of MASSACHUSETTs, 1784. Si In Council, November 12th, 1784. Ir, We are informed that George Garner and Joseph Smith who are charged with Felony committed in this City and have fled from Justice, are now in Boston. We therefore think it our duty to request, that they may be delivered up to the Bearer Mr. John Poyntell in order to be removed to this State. I am with great Regard Sir, Your most obedt, hble. Servt. JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, His Excellency, The Governor of Massachusetts. - º ELECTION OF DELEGATES To CoNGRESS, 1784. - State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly Tuesday November 16 1784, A. M. Agreeable to the order of the day the House proceeded to the election of Delegates to represent this State in the Congress of the United States for the ensuing year, and the ballots being taken it appeared that the Honorable Joseph Reed, Cadwalader Morris, William Montgomery, Joseph Gardner, and William Henry, of Lancaster, Esquires, were duly elected. Wednesday, November 17, 1784, A. M. A letter from Cadwalader Morris Esquire, elected a Delegate to represent this State in the Congress of the United States, was read, praying leave to resign the said appointment, and on motion, and by special order, the same was read the second time. Ordered that his resignation be accepted. Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS,” Asst. Clerk of the General Assembly. * Col. Rec., Vol. XIV. p. 261.
End of Section 121. Continue to next section or 
Section 122
Page 355
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 355 Mons. MARBOIs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Philadelphia, 16th Novr, 1784. Sir, I had the honor of writing sundry Letters to your Excellency, requesting that you would be pleased, in conformity with the recommendations of Congress to procure to the subjects of His Majesty, the payment of the interest of the Loan Office certificates issued in this State. I beg you wil be pleased to let me know what has been determined thereupon, that I may give information of it to his Majesty's subjects. You may easily conceive, Sir, how unfortu- nate it is for them, after having placed so much confidence in the thirteen United States to see that the interests of those Certificates have been paid to Americans, while the French have been excluded from those payments. - I also beg your Excellency to let me Know the motives which have rendered the recommendations of Congress ineffectual, that I may impart them to that Honourable Body. I am with respect Sir, your most obedient humble servant, (Signed,) DE MARBOIS. A true Translation from the original. PETER S. DU PONCEAU, sworn Interpreter. JUDGE HoPKINSON TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. To His Excellency the President and Honourable, The Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, I beg leave to submit the enclosed Depositions to the Considera- tion of your Honourable Board; requesting your advice in the Business to which they refer. The Wessel in Question was attached under a writ of the Admiralty to answer a Tradesman for work done & materials found in building her at Marcus hook, by virtue of a late Law of this State for that Purpose. As soon as she was launched the attachment was laid, & the forcible rescue immediately follow'd, & the offenders escaped with the property into Delaware State. The vessel & the Parties I believe are yet in the Port of Wil- mington, & I should hope that it will be thought necessary to take the most speedy measures for bringing the offender to answer for
End of Section 122. Continue to next section or 
Section 123
Page 356
356 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. the Indignity they have thrown on a Court of Justice of this Commonwealth. - I have the Honour to be, with great Respect Gentlemen, your most obedient, and most faithful humble servant. FRAS. HOPKINSON. Directed, His Excellency President Dickinson, Philada., Nov. 16th, 1784. Moss. MARBOIs To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Philadelphia, the 17 November, 1784. Sir, In the beginning of last Summer a report spread in some parts of this Continent that there was suspicion cf the plague being at Mar- seilles; altho' without any foundation this report has been the source of anxiety to Merchants. The Marshal de Castries who has been in- formed of it has done me the honour to write me such particulars as are most proper to remove their fears; he informs me that “all Trad- “ing vessels coming from the Levant are only admitted at the ports “of Marseilles & Toulon, but particularly at the former, that the “Lazaretto of Marseilles has the most sure resources, in the most cer- “tain practice of the various methods used for the purification of “Goods and the treatment of Persons.” “Wessels, continues this “Minister, directly fitted out from Marseilles, when there are no “particular grounds of suspicion, may be received with perfect con- “fidence and full credit may be given to the Bills of Health de- “livered by the Magistrates of this City whose Integrity is as well “known as their vigilance and Capacity.” I thought it my duty, Sir, to communicate to your Excellency these accounts in order to dissipate now and henceforth all kind of un- easiness. You will find further particulars in the printed Paper which I have the honour to address to you, and the experience of all the Wessels which trade between Marseilles and the Ports of this Continent proves the truth of the facts which are therein advanced. I am with respect Sir, your Excellency's very humble, and very obedient Servant, BARBE DE MARBOIS. Directed, r: Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr., President of the State of CD Ila.
End of Section 123. Continue to next section or 
Section 124
Page 357
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 357 CoMMISSIONERS FoR TREATING witH THE INDIANs, 1784. Sunbury, November 15th, 1784. Sir We have the honor to inform you that after enduring very great fatigue we have happily effected our negociations with the six con- federated Tribes of Indians. The consideration agreed on by us to be paid them for the Land purchased, with such other particulars as you would wish to have communicated, Col. Johnston will lay be- fore you. In regard to the Tiadaughton Creek on the West Branch of Sus- quehanna mentioned in the Deed of 1768. We beg leave to inform you that the six nations publicly declared Pine creek to be the same as will appear by the inclosed paper. We are now in Company with the Continental Commissioners and mean to proceed with all the dispatch, the approaching season will admit to Cayahauga, the place fixed on by them for holding a Treaty with the Western Indians, where we trust we shall be as successful as at the former. We have the honor to be, Your Excellency's most obed. and very humble Servants, SAM. J. ATLEE, WM. MACLAY, FRA. JOHNSTON.” Directed, Public service.) His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., President in Council. ANswer of THE SIx NATIONs To CoMMISSIONERs, 1784. Brothers from Pennsylvania. We have heard what you have said and are well pleased with the same. The Consideration we have fully agreed on which we are to receive for the Lands, and agreeable to your request have appointed Capt. Aaron Hill, Onegueandahonjo and Koneghariko of the Mo- - hawk Tribe, Kayenthoghke, Thaghneghtanhare & Teyagonen- dageghti of the Seneca, Ohendarighton, & Thoneiyode of the Cayu- ga, Sagoyakalongo & Otoghselonegh, Ojistalale, Oneyanha, Gagh- saweda, & Odaghseghte of the Oenida, & Onasaghweughte & Thalondawagon of the Tuscarora, as suitable persons to receive the Goods from you. With regard to the Creek called Teadaghton mentioned in your * Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p.261.-See also Archives, Wol. IV., p. 809 (note.) WOL. X. —16 -
Page 358
358 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Decd of 1768, we have already answered you and again repeat it, it is the same you call Pine creek, being the largest emptying into the West branch of the Susquehanna. Agreeable to your wish we have appointed Thaghneghlanhare to attend your Surveyor in running the Line between you and us. We do hereby certify that the aforegoing speech was this day made by Captain Aaron Hill, on the behalf of the Six Nations to the Pennsylvania Commissioners. Witness our hand this Twenty third day of October, Anno Domino One thousand seven hundred and Eighty four. SAM. KIRKLAND, Missry. JAMES DEAN, Interpreter, PREs. DICKINSON TO PRES. OF CONGRESS, 1784. S In Council, November 22, 1784. Ir, Last May we informed Congress of the Offences committed by a Frenchman in this State. We have made every Exertion in our Power for asserting the Law of Nations on the occasion; the final proceedings of our Supreme Court concerning it, are inclosed. We now rely upon the Wisdom of Congress, and hope that the Communication we have had the Honor of transmitting will be im- proved by them in such a Manner, that this troublesome affair may not be attended by any disagreeable Consequence. I am, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obedient and most humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON.” - Directed, His Excellency, the President of Congress. PRES. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1784. In Council, November 22, 1784. Gentlemen, We inclose a Letter for the President of Congress which we have left open for your perusal. As you must be sensible of the Difficulties that have occurred in a Case of such Novelty, we think it unnecessary to say any thing on * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 262.
Page 359
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 359 that Head; and we do not doubt, but you will satisfy Congress, that every proper, legal step has been taken by the government of this State upon the occasion. We are also confident that you will exert your Influence to pro- mote such Measures in Congress as may happily terminate this dis- agreeable affair. I am, with greatest Respect, Gentlemen, Your most obedient, And most humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON.* P. S.—We inclose the Resolutions of the committee of the State, of June 4, 1784. Approving the Conduct of this Government. Directed, The Honorable the Delegates of Pennsylvania, in Congress, ELECTION OF R. H. LEE, AS PREs. OF CONGRESS, 1784. (Circular.) Trenton, November 30th, 1784. Sir, I have the honor to inform you that Eight States being met the United States in Congress Assembled have this day proceeded to the Choice of a President, & have Elected for the ensuing year His Ex- cellency Richard Henry Lee. º I have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient & most hum. Servt., CHAS. THOMSON, Sec'y.f Directed, His Excellency, the President of Pennsylvania. PRES. Dickinson To PAUL PHIPPs, 1784. In Council, Decr. 1, 1784. Sir, We are extremely sensible of the Humanity and Politeness which dictated the Communication contained in your Letter dated the 3d of last month, and which we received this Day. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 262. f See Col. Rec. Vol. IX., p. 271.
End of Section 124. Continue to next section or 
Section 125
Page 360
360 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. We have ordered them to be printed immediately; and shall be - * - very glad if any Measures we can take can contribute to the sense of your exertions for the advancement of “Justice,” & the Relief of the “concerned.” I am with great esteem Sir, your ob. & very hble. Servt.,' JOHN DICKINSON. Indorsed, 1784, December 1st. To Paul Phipps, Esquire, at Kingston, Jaumaica. SAM'L J. ATLEE TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1784. Pequea, Lancaster County, Nov. 18th, 1784. Sir, - I take the first opportunity to inform Council of my arrival last evening, at my own House, to take a few days rest and refreshment after the most fateaguing piece of Business I ever undertook. I have the great pleasure of reporting that, that part of our mis- sion that respected the Northern Tribes has been concluded to our utmost wish, and I trust will be fully satisfactory to the State. The Consequences we must leave. Col. Johnston has beged a few days to see his Family, when we shall sett off upon the remaining part of our Task, which I fear will be mnch more disagreeable than the former, by reason of the advanced Season of year, I mean our Western Duty. We hope, however shou’d we return safe to be able to report upon that Busi- ness with equal Satisfaction to ourselves and Constituents. The Deed from the Six Nations for its greater security we thought proper Col. Johnston should take with him, but upon second con- sideration I thought best to have it with us, and have apprized him thereof. Shou'd Councill be desirous of seeing it, he will have the pleasure of laying it before them for their purusal. - Untill my Arrival I heard little of the Contests subsisting re- specting the late Elections, particularly of this County. My un- fortunate absence upon public Business in October last prevented my declaring against an Election of Committees for this County, which had I been present I think I should have done judging my- self fully intitled to a seat in the Executive for three years from the preceeding Election; this I think I have full Authority for, from the 19th Section of the Frame of Government, which says, “for the present, (that is the year 1777,) the Supreme Executive Councill shall consist of twelve persons chosen in the following manner, &c., and ever after the first choice in 1777, the successive Councellers shall be chosen for three years and no longer.
Page 361
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 361 By this Clause, I think myself intitled for two years longer to a Seat in the Councill. Nothing but the important publick Duty assigned me, would prevent my Attendance and demanding my seat, but trusting in the Wisdom and impartial Justice of Councill and determining shortly to Proceed to the Westward must defer it, untill our return to make our final report. - Granting a right of Election for a Councellor the last October, (which I by no means do,) I think my pretentions strengthened º: possible,) by a great majority of my Constituents having declared or me which I trust will be found if the matter shall be thought worthy of cool and full investigation. The Election of the District of Paxton returning about Eight hundred Wotes, I understand has been held without the Judges, &c., being legally quallifyed, and that not more than one hundred and fifty or at most two hundred Voters present. Complaints are likewise made against the Exorbitant members returned from the District of Lebanon, the Disproportion of the Voters present being nearly similar to that of Paxton. Meer matter of Right and not of Choice has induced me thus fully to write to your Excellency and Council, for be assured, Sir, I find more real enjoyment and Satisfaction in one weeks, residence with my Family and Friends, than I have experienced in all the nine or ten years Attendance upon the Duties of the Publick. I have the Honor to be, Sir, your Excellency's and the Council's most obedient and most hble. Servt. SAM’L J. ATLEE. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President. PREs. DICKINSON TO GEN'L JoHN ARMSTRONG, 1784. . In Council, November 27th, 1784. Sir, We should be glad that you would return to Philadelphia as soon as will be convenient, in order that upon the fullest Information we may take such ulterior Measures as the situation of the affairs in North" may render proper. JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, Gen'l John Armstrong.
End of Section 125. Continue to next section or 
Section 126
Page 362
362 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. PREs. DICKINson To Mons. MARBors, 1784. . In Council, November 30, 1784. Sir We have transmitted to the General Assembly your Letter of the 16 Instant as we have the former applications with which we have been honored on the same subject. The Power of deciding thereon belongs solely to the Legislative Branch of the government; and as we have no Right to require an Exposition of the “Motives” of their Conduct, we cannot undertake to determine what they are. I am with Respect, Sir, your very humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, Mr. de Marbois. MANAGERs of STATE LOTTERY TO CouncIL, 1784. To the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council. The Managers of the State Lottery beg leave to represent; That the sale of the Tickets in the first Class of the said Lottery at present amounts to but thirteen hundred & sixty five Tickets. That they are of Opinion it would contribute very much to the Sale of the Tickets if a day was immediately fixed, upon which the drawing of the said Class should commence; which they humbly submit to the Consideration of Council. M. HILLEGAS, B. FULLER, Managers. MATTH. CLARKSON. Lottery Office, Decem. 6, 1784. CHARLEs HELLSTEDT To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Si Philadelphia, Dec'r 7th, 1784. 1r, I have the honor of communicating to your Excellency His Majesty the King of Sweden's commission, constituting me Swedish Consul, to reside as such in Philadelphia in the state of Pennsylvania, along with the Recognition of the United States in Congress assembled, and request your Excellency will be pleased to issue an * See Col. Rec., XIV. pp. 275.
End of Section 126. Continue to next section or 
Section 127
Page 363
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 363 Exeguatur thereof and cause the said my appointment to be known to all, whom it may concern. I am respectfully your Excellency's most humble and most obedient Servant, CHARLES HELLSTEDT.” Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq’r, President of the State of Pennsylvania. REPORT of CouncIL of CENSORs, 1784. Your Committee appointed to extract such parts of the Report as adopted by the Council of Censors, as they shall judge necessary for the House to take Order thereon Beg Leave to Report further in art. The Council of Censors are of opinion, That the proceedings and Sentence of the Genl. Assembly (5th March, 1783) by which Timothy Matlack, late Secretary of the Supreme Executive Council, was declared “unworthy of Publick Trust and Confidence”f were unconstitutional, page 118. That your Committee are of Opinion the House should take Order thereon. Indorsed, Further Report in part of committee app'd to extract such parts of the report of the Council of Censors as they may deem necessary for the House to take order thereon. Read 1 time Dec'r 10, 1784. Read 2 time Dec. 11 and referred to Mr. Kuhl, Mr. Eyre, Mr. Frazer and Mr. J. Clark to report thereon. MEMORIAL OF TIMOTHY MATLACK, 1784. To The General Assembly of Representatives of the Freemen of Pennsylvania The Memorial & Petition of Timothy Matlack Respectfully sheweth, That the Comptroller General on the 19th of March, 1783 re- ported to the President & Council a state of the money received and paid by your memorialist as Secretary reduced to specie value ac- cording to the scale of depreciation, stating in the report his opinion, that the Secretary had to account for certain fees received by him “such as the keeper of the great seal, &c.,” giving his opinion, that the sum of divers fees charged to the state by the Secretary “is * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 276. f See Archives, Vol. IX., p. 762. -
Page 364
364 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. altogether inadmissible,” stating that the Secretary “has also charged his salary, as fixed in October, 1778, to December, 1781, in contradiction (as he says) to the Act of Assembly by which it ends at the 22nd day of June, 1781, and praying “to be instructed “by the Honorable the Council or Assembly what to their prudence “ and superior wisdom appear most elligible” as to the manner of determining the said points. That the said report was referred by His Excellency & Council to the Honourable House of Assembly which, thereupon, March 22nd, 1783, Resolved, That the Comp- troller General of this “state proceed to the trial of the contested “ points in the accounts of Timothy Matlack, Esq’r, Secretary of the “Supreme Executive Council by a jury in the Supreme Court.” That your memorialist used his utmost endeavours to have the said points tried as early as possible; but, when he had flattered himself that the day had arrived on which they would have been determined, the Counsel for the state declared that the house had ordered what could not be done, that it was an absurdity, that to swear a jury to try and give a verdict on a point of law, was a thing which had never before been heard of; and hitherto your memorialist has not been able to obtain any decision on the said points. That in consequence of this mode directed by the house your memorialist has been prevented from entering into business of any kind for near two years past, and that any further delays will utterly ruin him and his family. That the facts respecting his said accounts are agreed, no question whatever having arisen upon them at any time; neither has your memorialist at any time objected to any mode of deciding the points stated by the Comptroller General. If a jury cannot be sworn to try them, which indeed your memori- alist stands informed is an unusual thing, he is content to take the opinion of the Judges thereupon, and therefore prays that this honour. able house will reconsider the said resolve of March 22, 1783 and order that the opinion of the judges may be taken on the points stated by the Comptroller General which are points of law only in which no fact whatever is mixed, and that he be directed to proceed, conformably thereto, and conformably to the equitable principle of reducing the paper money to specie value according to the scale of depreciation as it stands in his said report, to settle your memorialists accounts as speedily as possible. And your memorialist as in duty bound will ever pray, &c. THOMAS Scott To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Washington, 13th Decº, 1784. May it Please your Excellency, - Inclosed is a Return of an Election in the Township of Fallowfield for Justices of the Peace. The Warrant on which this Election was
End of Section 127. Continue to next section or 
Section 128
Page 365
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 365 held is never come to my hand, nor is it possible to hold these People to strict form, notwithstanding I have give them every Instruction— However, I believe the Election was fair and open. I will only Remark, that sundry Elections have been held in this Township, and from various causes no Commission has ever been Issued. I have the Honour to be Your Excellency's & Council's Most Obed & very Hble. Serv", THO. SCOTT. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President, & Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania— Philadelphia. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1784. State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly, Tuesday, December 14, 1784, A. M. A Message from the President and the Supreme Executive Coun- cil, was presented to the chair and read, whereupon Resolved, that this House will hold a conference with the Supreme Executive Council, on the subject proposed, in the Assembly Cham- ber, at eleven o'clock to-morrow morning. Extract from the Minutes,” SAM. BRYAN, Clerk of the Gen.' Assembly. REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON THE MEMORIAL OF TIMOTHY MATLACK, 1784. * Your Committee, on the Case of Timothy Matlack, Esq., reported by Your Committee on the Report of the Committee of the Council of Censors, as adopted by the said Council, and to whom was also committed the Memorial & Petition of the said Timothy Matlack, beg Leave to recommend the following Resolution, Wiz.: Resolved, That the Case of Timothy Matlack, Esq.", late Secretary of the Supreme Executive Council, was not a subject proper for the interference of the Legislature, otherwise than by impeachment, if that Mode had appeared to be necessary. Resolved, That the sentence of the General Assembly, passed by their Vote of March 5*, 1783, by which the said Timothy Matlack * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 281. 16+
Page 366
866 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. was declared “unworthy of public Trust and Confidence,” was unconstitutional. Resolved, That the said Wote of March 5*, 1783, condemning the said Timothy Matlack be rescinded and annulled. Resolved, That the Resolution of the Gen.' Assembly of March 22*, 1783, founded on the Report of the Committee of the same date, directing the Comptroller General “to proceed to the Trial of “the contested Points in the Accounts of Timothy Matlack, Esq., “Secretary of the Supreme Executive Council, by a Jury in the “Supreme Court, & that he be authorized to employ a Council for “ that purpose,” be also annulled and Rescinded, and that it be left with the Supreme Executive Council to take such Order upon the subject of their Message to the House referred to in the said Report of the Committee, as may be right and just, and to which they are fully competent.* Indorsed, Read 1 time Decem' 14, 1184. Read 2 time Dec', whereupon Resolved, &c. PREs. DICKINSON To Gov. of New JERsEy, 1784. Si In Council, December 14*, 1784. ir, By Resolution of the General Assembly of this State, We are authorized to appoint three or more Commissioners, to meet with such Commissioners as are, or shall be, appointed on the part of New Jersey, to settle, agree upon, & accurately to determine, which of the Islands, Islets, and insulated dry Land, mentioned in the Agree- ment between the two States, bearing Date on the twenty-sixth Day April, 1783, belong to each of the said States, according to the pur- port of that Agreement. We intend in a short time to appoint Commissioners agreeably to the foregoing Resolutions, and now make this Communication, to your Excellency, in Hopes that New Jersey will immediately take proper Measures for finally executing the said Agreement in the Manner proposed. - I am, with great Esteem, Sir, your most obedient hble servt., JOHN DICKINSON } His Excelleney The Governor of New Jersey. * They were adopted on the 15th–See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 281. f See Col. Rec. XIV. p. 280.
End of Section 128. Continue to next section or 
Section 129
Page 367
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 867 REsolution of GENERAL Assembly, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Wednesday, December 15°, 1784. A. M. The report of the committee read yesterday,” on the memorial of Timothy Matlack, and the further report of the committee appointed to extract such parts of the report as adopted by the Council of Censors as they should deem necessary for the House to take order thereon; was read the second time and the resolutions therein con- tained adopted as follows, viz: (See them on page 366.) Extract from the Minutes, - J. SHALLUS,i Ass Clerk of the General Assembly. Mons. MARBOIs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Philadelphia, 16th Decº, 1784. Sir, A box containing Effects has arrived to my direction in the Port Jranc a Wessel coming from L'Orient. I have the honor to inclose as a proof the bill of lading with my receipt at the bottom of it. The Custom house Officers have refused to deliver the box under pretence of my not enjoying the franchises & exemptions from duties as Consul general. This practice being contrary to that which takes place with regard to all Consuls who do not trade, and likewise being in contradiction with the Exeguatur which has been given to me by your Excellency & the Council of the State, I beg you will be pleased to acquaint me with the Intentions of Council upon this point, that a perfect reciprocity may be established in France with respect to the American Consuls & Vice Consuls which do not trade. The Officers of the Customs might immediately have delivered that box to me as I am invested with the double character of Consul & Chargé des affaires of his majesty, but as they raise doubts about my franchises in the first of these capacities, I beg you will let me know the opinion of Council upon this difficulty, that I may impart it to my Court. I am with respect, Sir, Your Excellency's most obedient & most humble Servant, (Signed) DE MARBOIS.f (Enclosed in the foregoing is a translated copy of Bill of lading.) * See page 365. See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 281, 284. # See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 282,283, and 808 of this.
End of Section 129. Continue to next section or 
Section 130
Page 368
368 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. MONs. MARBOIs To The CollecTOR OF THE CUSTOMS PHILA. 1784. Philadelphia, 17* Dec., 1784. Sir, I have received your polite communication respecting the Package of goods directed to me as Consul General. As the difficulty started esterday about my exemptions from duties as a Consul is now }. the Council, the respect I owe them does not permit me to receive that package previous to their determinations, & before I know whether they acknowledge or not my claim to an exemption of the duties as a Consul not in trade. I am, Sir, with perfect regard, your very humble obedient servant, DE MARBOIS.* PREs. DICKINsoN To Mons. MARBOIs, 1784. In Council, December 18*, 1784. Sir, In consequence of your Letter of yesterday, we have taken order for the Delivery of the case therein mentioned. We cannot perceive a propriety in our determining upon this occasion concerning the claimed franchises of the Consulate, as no agreement respecting them has yet been concluded between His most Christian Majesty & the United States, and in the present Instance the Character of Consul is merged in that of Chargé des affaires. - I am with Respect Sir, your very humble & obed. Servº JOHN DICKINSON. - Mons. DE MARBOIs To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Philadelphia, 19th December, 1784. Sir, On the 16th inst a resolution was passed in Congress, of which I have the honor to enclose a Copy to your Excellency, in case the original should [not] have reached you, I beg you will lay it before the * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 282, 283.
End of Section 130. Continue to next section or 
Section 131
Page 369
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 369 Assembly as soon as business will permit, that they may take this object into their consideration before the end of their present sitting. I am with respect Sir, your Excellency's most obedient, and most humble servant, (Signed) DE MARBOIS.* A true Translation from the original. PETER. S. DU PONCEAU. Sworn Interpreter. RESOLUTION OF CONGREss, 1784. By the United States in Congress, Assembled. Decr. 16th, 1784. On the report of a committee to whom was refered a note from the chargé des affairs of his most Christian majesty dated the 1 Decr. 1784, respecting the delays and difficulties complained of by French agents in settling their accounts in this country. Resolved, That copies of the said note be immediately sent to the different States and that it be recommended to them to pass such remedial laws on the subject as their respective Constitutions may permit. CHA. THOMSON, Secy. PREs. DICKINson To DELEGATES IN CoNGRESS, 1784. In Council, December 20th, 1784. Gentlemen, We inclose a Letter to the President of Congress, with Copies of the late Law for adjusting Claims against the United States, & of Resolutions of the General Assembly of the 16th Instant on that subject. It is proper that you should be informed why these Resolutions were taken, after the Law had passed. This Law appearing to all of us likely to be attended by very injurious Consequences, we desired a Conference with the Legislative Branch, which was held the 15th Instant. In that, we among other things, represented “that the Law directly contradicts the Mode agreed upon by the United States in their acts of the 20th of February, 1782 & the 3d of June, 1784—that those acts are now carrying into Execution in the other states as appears by a Letter produced from the Honorable Robert Morris, Esquire—that Penn- sylvania had actually voted for that mode at both the times before mentioned, and had thereby contributed to give it the federal Force * Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 284.
Page 370
*- 370 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. that is now executing it in the other States—that she has, by her legislative and executive acts, repeatedly approved the Exercise of this Power by Congress, and acknowledged its obligation—& that from these circumstances there appeared a striking Impropriety in such a Deviation from the national Plan— That in proceeding upon this Plan such care has been taken to prevent partiality, that no person has been nominated to settle amounts in a State, in which he resides as a Citizen—that a line is well drawn for dividing with Justice between such contending Interests & that a Departure from this prudent Caution, & the con- sequent appointment of Citizens for Commissioners, who may be exposed to the various & powerful Influences of local Connections, is by no means adviseable— That if a Continental Commissioner misbehaves, or is incapable of transacting the Business of his Department in reasonable time, the proper Remedy is by application to Congress for the appoint- ment of another, & if necessary, of more— That for any state to break thro' the national Plan and assume the settlement of all accounts within itself, & to insist that it shall be binding upon the Union, would seem to impeach the Wisdom, Integrity, or authority of Congress— That it is very probable, Congress will deny us Credit for accounts thus adjusted, as irregularly settled & hence may begin a Competi- tion of powers, to be followed by many Evils— That the Injunction in the Law, of Correspondence with the Commissioners “in order to prevent Confusion, and to gain neces- sary Information,” will be totally vain if those Commissioners refuse to give Effect to the Correspondence—that if this happens there will then be several Commissioners, unconnected, appointed by different authorities, and employed at a double Expence, in affairs of the same kind requiring in the Management of them the strictest uniformity of Regulation and the fullest Communication of Intel- ligence—& for want of these many Errors & Frauds are to be expected, as is manifest from the Law itself— That the Law does not seem to ascertain with sufficient precision the persons or Demands, that are its objects—that all those whose Claims may be adjusted by the Commissioners of this state, will insist upon a particular Right for having them funded here, alledging, that their Reliance upon a Law of this Commonwealth of which at the time of its Enaction they were “Inhabitants,” prevented them having their accounts liquidated in such manner as to be admitted by the United States as just charges against them, so that they will not only lose their original Demands, but will have been put to much useless Trouble & Expence in attending the Commissioners of the state, unless the state will pay them—and their Demands to a very large amount, properly chargeable to the United States, and which would have been acknowledged & provided for by them, if they had been settled & certified by their Commissioner according
Page 371
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 371 to the national Plan, may by the Interference of this Law be fixed as a perpetual Debt on this state, without our ever being able to obtain any allowance for it from the United States.” We hope, that upon a Consideration of the Reasons that in our judgment have weight, you, Gentlemen, will agree with us in opinion that it is exceedingly important, that the additional Com- missioners should be appointed by Congress, and any occasion for an appointment by us be thereby superseded. We have only to add, that a variety of Circumstances in the strongest manner requires, that the Commissioners should be imme- diately appointed; and therefore we earnestly request, that you will be pleased to make every Exertion in your power for this purpose. I am with great Respect, Gentlemen, - your most obedient & very h’ble serv't. JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Honorable, the Delegates of Pennsylvania. PREs. DICKINSON TO PREs. OF CONGREss, 1784. - In Council, December 20th, 1784. Sir, We have the Honor of enclosing Copies of a Law of this state lately passed & intitled “an act to carry into immediate Effect the Resolutions of the United States in Congress assembled for adjusting the Claims of Individuals of this Commonwealth against the said United States,” and of Resolutions of the General Assembly of the 16th Instant upon the same subject. Several Considerations arising from the particular Circumstances of this state, urge us to request, that Congress will be pleased as speedily as possible to appoint two or more Commissioners in addition to the one already appointed, for the purpose of settling & properly certifying the Claims of the Citizens of this State against the United States, which will supersede the necessity of an appointment by us. I am with great Respect, Sir, your Excellency's most obedient and most humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, His Excellency, the President of Congress.
Page 372
372 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. PREs. DICKINSON to MANAGERs of STATE LOTTERy, 1784. Secretary's Office, Dec'r 21st, 1784. Sir, Council this morning took your late application upon the subject of the State Lottery into consideration and have directed me to communicate as the Result of it, that they cannot approve the proposition of appointing a day for the commencement of the drawing. They flatter themselves that the late encouragement given by the Ass'y will have their intended effect and are sure that the Managers will take all possible means to avail themselves of them. I am, with much respect, your obedient hum. Serv't, J. Armstrong, jr., Sy. Directed, Matthew Clarkson, Esq’r. ANDREW Porter. To CouncIL, 1784. Gentlemen, The Commissioners having adjourned from the business of runing- the boundary Line of this State until sometime in the month of May next—I have Ordered the light Wagon & one of the heavy Wagons with the Mathematical Instruments to this place, and expect they will arrive the Latter end of this, or the beginning of next Week—The other two Wagons & five Horses I left with an Inhabitant of Ten Mile Creek in Washington County, where the Horses will be Wintered on reasonable terms—I now wait to know the Orders of Council what I am to do with the remainder of the Horses & the Two Wagons when they arrive.—When my Books & Papers come to hand I shall make a further report with an accurate acc’t of the expenditures, as soon as I can possibly attend to the drawing out of those acc’ts, but in the mean time must request, that Council will please to order a Draft in my favour for Two Hundred pounds to enable me to pay off the Wagoners; and a sum of money I borrowed and applyed to Public use. I am with every sentiment of Respect & Esteem, Gentlemen, Your Obed’t Serv't, ANDREW PORTER." Philade, Dec 20th, 1784. Directed, To His Excellency the President, and the Supreme Executive Council, Pennsylvania. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 285, 286.
Page 373
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 373 REPAIRs of STATE House, 1784. To the Hon’ble the Supreme Executive Council of the Common- wealth of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, Having expended the two hundred pounds rec'd of the Treasurer p' your Order in those repairs of the State House which the Season of the year made most necessary; The copper trunks to convey the water from the roof, paveing and Gravelling at the front, and the preparations for planting trees in the Square back of the House being nearly accomplished. It will require the further sum of Three hundred pounds to pay the Several Expences incurr'd. Therefore request the Hon’ble Council will be pleased to give an Order for that Sum on the Treasurer of the State, and Oblige yº h’ble Serv't, JAMES PEARSON.” Philad'a, Decem' 20th, 1784. Directed, To the Hon’ble Executive Council. Joint REPORT OF COMM'RS ON BOUNDARY BETWEEN PENN’A AND WIRG'A, 1784. Agreeably to the Commission given by the State of Virginia to James Madison, Robert Andrews, John Page and Andrew Ellicott, • & by the State of Pennsylvania to John Ewing, David Rittenhouse,f John Lukens & Thomas Hutchins, to determine by astronomical observations the Extent of five Degrees of Longitude west from the River Delaware in the Latitude of Mason's & Dixon's Line, & to run & mark the Boundaries which are common to both States, according to an agreement entered into by Commissioners from the said two States at Baltimore in 1779, & afterwards ratified by their respective assemblies; We, the underwritten Commissioners, together with the Gentlemen with whom we are joined in commission, have by corres- ponding astronomical observations, made near the Delaware & in the western Country, ascertained the extent of the said five Degrees of Longitude: and the underwritten Commissioners have continued Mason's & Dixon's Line to the Termination of the said five Degrees of Longitude, by which work the southern Boundary of Pennsyl- vania is completed. The continuation we have marked by opening vistas over the most remarkable Heights which lie in its course, & by planting on many of these Heights in the Parallel of Latitude, * See Col. Rec., XIV., p. 285. # See Smith's Laws, Vol. II., p. 261.
Page 374
374 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. the true Boundary, Posts marked with the Letters P & W., each Letter facing the State of which it is the Initial. At the Extremity of this Line, which is the South West corner of the State of Penn- sylvania, we have planted a squared unlettered white oak Post, around whose Base we have raised a Pile of stones. The Corner is in the last vista we cut, on the east side of an Hill, one hundred & thirty-four Chains & nine Links East of the meridian of the western observatory, & two Chains & fifty-four Links west of a deep narrow Valley through which the said last vista is cut. At the Distance of fifty-one Links & bearing from it North twenty-three degrees east stands a white oak marked on the south side with three notches; & bearing South twelve Degrees west & at the Distance of twenty-nine Links stands a black Oak marked on the North side with four Notches . The advanced season of the year & the Inclemency of the , weather have obliged us to suspend our operations; but we have agreed to meet again at the South west Corner of Pennsylvania on the sixteenth Day of next May, to complete the Object of our Com- mission. Given under our Hands & Seals, in the County of Wash- ington in Pennsylvania this 18th Day of November, 1784. ROBERT ANDREWS, ANDREW ELLICOTT, JOHN EWING, DAV'D RITTENHOUSE, THO. HUTCHINS.* REPORT OF PENNA. COMMISSIONERS ON BOUNDARY WITH VIRGINIA, 1784. To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President of the State, & To the honorable the Supreme Executive Council of the Common- wealth of Pennsylvania. The Commissioners appointed for ascertaining the Length of five Degrees of Longitude and for determining and fixing the Boundary Lines between this State and Virginia by astronomical Observations, beg Leave to Report, That after procuring the necessary Instruments, according to the Directions of Council in the preceeding Spring, we sett off for our respective Places of observation about the Beginning of June, Mess" Rittenhouse and Lukens to Wilmington, and Ewing and Hutchins to the South Western Corner of the State. The observers at Wilmington compleated their Observatory, and furnished it with the necessary Instruments, so as to begin their astronomical Operations, in Conjunction with Mess" Page and An- drews, Commissioners from Virginia, about the Beginning of July; where they continued observing the Eclipses of Jupiter's Satellites, till the 20th of September, that they might have a sufficient Num- * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 288.
Page 375
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 375 ber of them, both before and after his opposition to the Sun; And altho' the Summer proved very unfavourable for astronomical pur- poses, they were fortunate enough to make, amongst them, near 60 Observations of these Eclipscs, besides many other Observations of the other heavenly Bodies for the Regulation of their Clock and fixing their Meridian Line; so that they were well ascertained of their Time to a single Second. In the mean Time, the other Observers, setting out from Phila- delphia, pursued their Rout, to the South Western Extremity of the State, where they arrived about the middle of July, having been greatly retarded i; the Badness of the Roads through that moun- tainous Country. There they met with Mess" Madison and Ellicott, the Commissioners from the State of Virginia, who had arrived about the same Time. With all possible Dispatch, they erected their Observatory on a very high Hill at the place where the Continuation of Mess" Mason and Dixon's Line by Mess" Nevelle and M'Clean Ended; supposing that this place would prove to be near to the Western Extremity of five Degress of Longitude from the River Delaware. After erecting their Instruments, which had not sustained the least Damage, by the Carriage through so long a Journey, and the most unfavourable Roads, they began their astronomical Obser- vations about the middle of July, and they continued them Night and Day till the 20th of September following. Although they were frequently interrupted and disappointed by an uncommon quantity of Rain and Foggy Weather, which seems peculiar to that hilly Country, yet by their Attention to the Business of their Mission, they made between 40 and 50 Observations of the eclipses of Jupi- ter's Satellites, many of which were correspondent with the Obser- vations made by the other Astronomers at Wilmington; besides innumerable Observations of the Sun and Stars for the Regulation of their Time Pieces and the marking of their Meredian with the greatest Precision. - In this part of their work, situated near 30 Miles beyond any of the Inhabitants, the Commissioners were greatly assisted by the Diligence and indefatigable activity of Coll. Porter, their Commissary, to whose Industry in providing every Thing necessary, and prudence in managing the Business of his Department with the utmost Oeconomy, the State is greatly indebted. The astronomical Observation being compleated on the 20th of September, the Eastern astronomers set out to meet the other Com- missioners in the West, in order to compare them together. Mess" Rittenhouse and Andrews carried with them the Observations made at Wilmington, while Mess” Lukens and Page returned home, not being able to endure the Fatigues of so long a Journey, nor the Subsequent labour of running and marking the Boundary Line. Mr. Madison continued with the Western Astronomers till the arrival of Mess” Rittenhouse and Andrews, when the affairs of his Family and publick Station obliged him to relinquish the Business at this Stage, *
Page 376
376 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. and return Home, after concurring with the other Commissioners as to the principles on which the matter was finally determined. Upon Comparison of the Observations made at both Extremities of our Southern Boundary, your Commissioners have the pleasure of assuring you, that no Discouragements arising from the unfavourable State of the Weather, or the unavoidable Fatigues of constant appli- cation by Day and frequent Watchings by Night, have prevented them from embracing every opportunity, and making a sufficient Number of Astronomical Observations, to determine the Length of five Degrees of Longitude with greater Precision than could be attained by terrestrial Measures of a Degree of Latitude in different places of the Earth: and further, that they have compleated their Observtions with so much accuracy and certainty as to remove from their Minds every degree of doubt concerning their final determination of the South Western Corner of the State. In the Result of the Calculations, they found that their observa- tories were distant from each other twenty minutes and one second and an eighth part of a Second of Time. But as the Observatory at Wilmington was fixed at 114 Chains, 13 Links West of the In- tersection of the Boundary Line of this State with the River Dela- ware; and as 20 Minutes of Time are equivalent to five Degrees of Longitude, they made the necessary Correction for the said 114 Chains, 13 Links, and also for the said one Second and one eighth part of a second, which is equal to 19 Chains and 96 Links; and accordingly fixed and marked the South Western Corner of the State in the manner mentioned in the joint agreement and Report of the Commissioners of both States under their Hands and Seals, which we have the Honour of laying before the Council.” After these calculations were made, the Commissioners proceeded with all convenient Dispatch to the place where Mason and Dixon formerly were Interrupted by the Indian Nation in running the southern Boundary of this State, in order to extend the said Boundary Westward to the length of five Degrees from the River Delaware. Being prevented by rainy weather for near a week from making any astronomical observations in order to ascertain the Direction of the Parallel of Latitude, which we were to extend we concluded, to save Time and Expence, that it would be eligible to take the last Direction of Mason and Dixon's Line, and to correct it, if necessary, when we should have an opportunity of a serene Sky. Upon extending the Line in this Manner 195 Chains from the place where they ended their work, we found by astronomical observations that we were 32 feet and 5 inches North of the true Parallel, and we accordingly made the necessary Correction here and marked a Tree with the Letters P. on the North side and W. on the South. From thence we assumed a new direction, which we again corrected in like manner at the distance of 575 Chains where we found our Line to be 73 feet and 6 inches North of the Parallel of Latitude. We made the offsett accordingly and planted a large * See page 373. r
Page 377
Pl'NNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 377 post in the true Parallel marked as above. From thence we found another direction by calculation, which beginning at the said post should at the Distance of eight Miles from it, intersect the said Parallel, making offsetts at convenient distances, and planting Posts in the true parallel. This direction being continued 33 Chains far- ther than the eight miles above mentioned, fell 23 Inches South of the Parallel, where we also planted a post in the true Boundary marked as before; and from thence to the South West Corner of the State we assumed a new Direction which being continued, fell two feet and eight inches South of the said Corner. This correc- tion therefore being made, we planted a Squared White Oak Post in the said Point, and marked its bearing from Different Objects, as mentioned in our joint Report. Besides the Marking of the Boun- dary Line by the Posts and Stones above mentioned; your Commis- sioners took care to have a Visto of 20 or 30 feet wide cut over all the most remarkable Ridges which were in the Direction of the Parallel. For a more particular description of this part of our work, we beg leave to refer to the annexed plan” and sketch of the Country through which the Line Passed. The season being now far advanced, we were obliged to desist from any farther Prosecution of the work, and agreed with the Virginia Commissioners to meet them at the South Western Corner of our State on the 16th of May next, to proceed in running and marking the Western Boundary of this State. Agreeable to our Commission to report the Situation of the Country and the best means of preserving the Communication and Connection between the Eastern and Western Parts of the State, we beg Leave to observe that the natural obstructions to so desirable a purpose may be, in a great measure removed by a few easy Instances of attention, paid by the Legislature of this State to the Situation and exhausted condition of the Western Citizens. Their public Roads are numerous, extensive and in bad order; while the Citizens being few in number, scattered at a Distance from each other, and being harrassed and exhausted by an Indian War, are unable to repair their Roads, or to open them through more easy and convenient Passes over the Hills and Mountains. A few hundred pounds, not exceed- ing one thousand judiciously and frugally applied, would in our opinion make a tolerable good Waggon Road from York County to the Monongahela; and thereby facilitate the Exportation of Goods from this City to that Western Country, and secure their Trade with us; especially if the Ferry over the Susquehannah was made free to all the Citizens of the State. It appears probable to us, that other- wise the Exertions of Maryland and Virginia, to repair their Roads to that country, will frustrate the Expectations, which we are en- titled to entertain of enjoying the advantages of the Trade with the Western Parts of our own State. We beg Leave farther to ob- * No plan has as yet been discovered.
Page 378
378 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. serve that the natural attachment of the Western Citizens to this State might be increased and fixed by an indulgence to their distressed Situation in the price of their Lands, and the Terms of payment, and particularly in the remission of the Interest due on the purchase Money, during the Time they have been obliged to evacuate their Possessions by the Savages, and fly to Forts for the security of their Lives and Families. JOHN EWING, DAVID RITTENHOUSE. JNO. LUKENS, THO. HUTCHINS.* Philada., 23d Dec., 1784. Indorsed,—The Report of the Pº Commissioners for running the line between this State & Wirg", enclosing the joint report of the s” Commissioners & those from Virginia—to be entered in the letter book with its enclosures—Entered. REPORT & RESOLUTION RESPECTING ARREARS OF IMPOSTs, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, - Friday, December 24th, 1784.—A. M. The House resumed the consideration of the Report of the Com- mittee appointed “to enquire from what cause so large a Sum of “public money due upon the imposts laws, appears to be outstand- “ing and report thereon,” when the same was adopted as follows, Vizt: The Committee appointed “to enquire from what cause so large “a Sum of public money due upon the impost laws appears to be outstanding, and report thereon,” Report, That they have made the enquiry to them committed and find from the information of the Collector of the imposts, and from the Books and Papers by him exhibited to your Committee, that there appeared to be due from sundry individuals on bonds, on the 1st Day of November last, about the Sum of Sixty thousand Pounds. That the said Collector hath, as well by advertisements published in the News-papers, as otherwise, used endeavours to collect the monies due on the said Bonds; that some of the said monies have been col- lected, since the said first day of November; and that the said Col- lector expressed strong expectations, founded on the assurances. he had received from the obligors in the said Bonds, that the whole of the monies due as aforesaid would be paid in the course of one or two months. Your Committee nevertheless deem it expedient that measures * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 288. Dr. Ewing resigned March 26, 1785. See ibid., p. 434, and this Wol. under that date,
Page 379
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 379 should be taken to expedite the collection of the said debts and more especially those which have been long due, and therefore your Com- mittee offer the following Resolution, viz.: Resolved, That the Supreme Executive Council be desired to tºke proper order for procuring the payment of the monies due on the said Bonds. Extract from the Minutes. SAM’L BRYAN, Clerk of the General Assembly. MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL Assembly, 1784. A Message from the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, To His Excellency The President, and the Honor- able the Supreme Executive Council. Gentlemen, With all due respect and Attention we the Representatives of the Freemen of the State of Pennsylvania in General Assembly met, have taken into Consideration your message of the fourth instant,” and tho' public debates of this nature seldom produce real Convic- tion either in the minds of those with whom they originate or by whom they are conducted, we are of opinion that the Plan for pro- viding for the payment of the public debts, against which the pre- sent address militates, is founded on such Principles of natural, and political Justice, that nothing farther will be necessary to evince its Merit, than to state some of those leading principles, and re-call to memory those Sentiments which in time of public danger operated on every feeling mind with truth and emergy; Nor can we suppose the security .# case resulting from peace have or can obliterate them. We trust we shall also rectify some mistakes into which Your Honorable Board have fallen in point of fact; We admit and We avow it in the face of the World that we esteem it a duty to pay the debts contracted on the faith of the public according to their just Value, and to the Amount ascertained by those officers who under public authority have stated and certified them; and that every thing which interferes with a such payment either in the creation of the funds from which it is to be made or by direct diminution of the debts so acknowledged, we consider unjust and impolitic and to which of course we cannot assent. As the message generally and highly approves, the principles, on which the several Acts of the 12th March, 1783, “for the Sale of certain Lands therein mentioned,” and 1st of April, 1784, intitled “An Act for opening the Land Office.” We need only observe on this point, that it was ever our intention generally to adopt and carry them into Effect, and that the evils arising from long Credit, from which would probably result uncertain payment, and factious *See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 271.
Page 380
380 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Combinations against the peace of the State, cannot arise, no such Credit being to be given by the Act passed this Session. It is pro- posed to sell the Lands at moderate prices, and immediately receive the Consideration which the Message admits as best calculated to extinguish the demands on the Commonwealth, and relieve the peo- ple in the article of Taxes. The Mischiefs of increasing public Credit, and of course, the dealing in public funds are not so well known to us as the message supposes. We know such funds exist in all free States, the most flourishing and best regulated; and pre- sume that they are only dangerous from their abuse. We flatter ourselves, That on this occasion, with caution, and moderation they will not be liable to the dangers resulting from an improvident exer- cise of power either in the mode of administering such funds, or their disproportion to our Ability in supporting them. We consider these funds as providing the means of payment of a just debt, and that by vigorious exertions in reducing the debt as speedily and into as small a Compass as possible, we shall most effectually guard against the Consequences suggested of dealing in public funds; for the debt being lessened or discharged, the Opportunities for such Speculations will be diminished or done away. If your Excellency and the Honorable Board suppose, that by making no other provision for the Relief of the public Creditors, than what will arise from the Sale of Lands, such Creditors driven by despair, and pinched by necessity will be compell'd to take Lands on any terms, or will sell their Certificates at any price to those who seek to speculate in Land, We are at a loss to reconcile it to those professions of tenderness expressed for Widows, Orphans and worthy Citizens yet retaining their Certificates. For when we recur to the provision made by former Legislatures for these respect- able Claimants in the Acts of Assembly enumerated in the Message, we find them totally inapplicable to the End. The Act passed the 21st March, 1783, intitled “An Act for providing the Quota of foederal Supplies,” and its Supplement passed the 25th September following, only gave a temporary relief for payment of Interest for one year, and were declared to be for enabling them to pay their Taxes for the Supplies of the Current year, and as for the Act intitled “An Act to appropriate certain monies arising from the Excise with its Supplement of the 20th Sept., its Benefit was ex- clusively limited to the Officers and Soldiers of the Army. Those respectable Claimants therefore, certainly have never received that attention the message so explicitly declares, and other efforts, than those mentioned in the said Acts, are requisite for their Relief, or they must remain, not merely in the uncomfortable state so coldly described in the message, but in a state of great poverty and dis- tress. The objection to the just and honorable payment of these debts because the folly of some, and necessity of others have thrown a part of them into other hands than the original holders, at a price below their apparent Value, seems to us as destructive of all future -
Page 381
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 881 Credit as present Justice. Being in their nature negotiable, and originally made transferable, who will ever receive them hereafter if they are thus depreciated by public Authority ? Let it also be remembered, that whatsoever price the present possessors may have paid for some of these Certificates, the public had a valuable Consi- deration, and that a great proportion of them yet remain in the hands of the original Possessors; and as no discrimination is pro- posed, and must be extremely difficult, what is to become of these respectable Claimants * are they to suffer because their interests are accidentally blended with those of others less so? It does not appear to us consonant to Justice or sound policy to depreciate honest debts because they vary in the degree of merit; for that any are unjust in themselves, none pretend. To these original possessors none of the Observations in the message apply, which suppose such an Accumulation of value. They expected to receive their real value; they ask no more; and this they are intitled to:—to oblige them to take less must be confessedly un- just. But we feel no apprehensions of a few Persons being sud- denly raised into great wealth, while others are proportionably depressed: Because we see every Species of public Certificates have been long current and the most unexceptionable funds provided in many Cases to support them, such for instance as the appropriation of the excise for the Benefit of the Army, and yet we see no such exorbitant wealth or depressed industry. To make common Conver- sation, (and that founded in supposition,) a ground of public mea- sures from which injustice to the Widow, Orphan and worthy Citizen will follow, we cannot suppose the generous and benevolent temper of Pennsylvania will admit, and yet we can deduce no other Consequence from admitting that those who were about to buy Cer- tificates were led by general Conversation to Contemplate the Lands of the State as the only fund for their redemption. We trust the public proceedings of this State will have a more stable and solid foundation. That the Certificates will rise in value in consequence of a well grounded hope of just and honorable payment, we hope and expect, but that it will enhance the price beyond their original Value, we cannot believe, and their advance towards it will be fully compensa- ted by recovering public Credit, renewing confidence in Government, and enabling us to establish a Loan Office from which the distant freeholders will be accommodated with money on easy Terms and at a reasonable interest. But how will this be attained if instead of applying the wisdom and energy of Government to restore public Credit, we fall into every temptation to commit public injustice— whether the debts are just, is in our view, the first Consideration— this is not questioned, for they are admitted, not only to be just but meritorious. The next is, how shall they be discharged 7 we say, honestly, as a Source of future Confidence and supply equitably as con- formably to natural Justice; and gratefully as a proper return to those Vol. X—17.
Page 382
382 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. who in times of public danger and difficulty lent their Property to effect the great Purposes of Liberty and Independence. In Confirma- tion of those sentiments, we shall recur to a message of your Excellen- cy's and the Honourable Board of August 17th, 1783, as the most un- exceptionable authority. There it is said, “The discharge of debts “due by the State, or if that cannot be soon accomplished, at least “the regular Payment of the Interest, should be provided for, and “well secured by adequate funds; so that the best satisfaction “which Circumstances will permit, may be given to the Creditors. “Continual and sometimes very affecting applications are made to “us: but while we perceive the obligations of Justice, and the “Injuries and distresses attendant upon a non-compliance with them “we are unable to afford Relief. It is essential to the public wel- “fare that public Credit, upon which alone confidence can be foun- “ded, should be supported; and we earnestly wish, the General “Assembly would take into their serious Consideration the ways “and means for establishing a more regular and improved System “of Revenue. We believe that the burthens of the good people of “this state might be thus relieved; and we shall esteem ourselves “very happy if we can furnish any useful Information upon this “subject.” Contemplating the resources of the State, we cannot with your Excellency and the honorable Board, consider the Circum- stances of the Treasurers notes as proofs of our inability to support our Credit, because a Want of Punctuality in the redemption of all our public securities is equally to be lamented. Even the antient emissions of Paper money before the Revolution were not punctually redeemed, but certainly not from inability. It arises from the de- lay of the Collection of Taxes, which it is the duty of the executive part of Government to remedy. We wish and hope to ease our Constituents under the public burthens; we partake of them ourselves, and therefore must be al- ways interested to lessen them; but we see no cause to depreciate the ability of the State, as well as its Credit, when we reflect that in the year 1782, when we had neither rested from the ravages of the war, nor tasted the blessings of peace, a Tax of £420,000 was imposed, and tho' heavy it was not insupportable. In the year 1783, a farther Tax was laid for £225,000, without any aid from the sale of Lands. The present supply calls, for a Tax of but £76,945 176 annually, which is the very sum recommended by Congress, and adopted by a late Assembly for twenty five years, and when the Purposes to which it is to be applied are duly considered, and that its duration will probably be terminated in a much shorter time than twenty-five years, “the generous and benevolent temper of Pennsylvanians” will not permit it to be deemed grievous, nor unduly burthensome. We come now to the last objection against thus providing for the payment of the public debts; that it will interfere with foederal measures; we wish your Excellency and the honorable Board instead of resting on a general declaration, had
Page 383
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1781. 383 pointed out this inteference. Besides the instance above mentioned the Journals of Congress abound in Resolves and Recommendations in which the utmost energy of language is exerted to induce us to pay these debts honorably and justly. We mean to show our respect for the Counsels of that honourable Body by our Compliance as well as by our professions. We have thereupon collected their senti- ments as scattered thro' divers of their Proceedings. In the celebrated Letter of the 13th September, 1779, after ex- pressing with the most pathetic eloquence, the baseness and bad policy of failing to support the public faith, thus urge its inhumanity as well as injustice: That the Complaints of ruined widows and fatherless Children whose sole support rests in the public funds have already gone forth, and with the greatest Solemnity they bid us take care, that they rise no higher. - On the 18th April following they declare that the holders of loan office Certificates should sustain no loss by any depreciation of the Bills loan'd subsequent to their respective dates. On the 28th June following they declare that the Principal of all the Loans that have been made shall finally be discharged at the full current value. of the bills when loan’d and the interest in the mean time paid on the same just principles. On the 16th December, 1782, Congress declared, that it is essential to the justice and Preservation of public faith, that whenever a nation is obliged by the exigencies of public affairs to contract a debt proper funds should be established not only for paying the annual Value or Interests of the same, but for discharging the principal within a reasonable Period. It then goes on to encourage the States to exertions of Payment by assuring them that whenever the produce of the Revenue shall exceed the Interest, it shall be applied to sinking the Principal. But unfortunately no fund has been found by Congress to pay even the interest or any part of it from that time to the present. In 1783, another most animated address from Congress in the ninth Page of a Pamphlet called an address and Recommendation to the States, after enumerating the Classes of public Creditors, speaks of those who originally lent their money, those who have pur- chased Certificates, and whose Property has been otherwise advanced or assumed for public Service, and this is the language of that re- spectable Body, a just regard to whose Counsels the Honorable Board declare, and we concur in believing is essential to our Happi- ness “To discriminate the merits of these several descriptions of “Creditors would be a task equally unnecessary and invidious, if the “voice of humanity pleads more loudly in favor of some than of “others, the voice of Policy no less than of Justice pleads in favor “of all—A wise nation will never permit those who relieve the “wants of their Country, or who rely most on its faith, its firmness and “its resources, when either of them is distrusted, to suffer by the “event.” In the following Paragraph of the same address, which
Page 384
384 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. we earnestly recommend to the attention of your Excellency and the honorable Board, these Sentiments are further urged and enforced by Considerations of the most powerful nature such as in our opinion exclude every idea, that the measures of any particular State at this time of day for the relief of these sufferers can be dissagreeable to Congress. The State of New Jersey has made a Provision simi- lar to ours, except that it rests on Taxation only, while ours has the Lands as an auxiliary, and we have never heard their Conduct ob- jected to as interfering with foederal measures or weakening the union. If from defects in the Confederation, or too limited views, some States hesitate or fail in Complianco as they have done from year to year, shall we bring poverty and Ruin on the Citizens of Pennsyl- vania whose Circumstances, the message admits, demand immediate attention ? do not these debts make a part of the national debt, and if lessened now, will not our future burthen be less. Thus while we substantially comply with the Recommendations of Congress, we shall perform an act of duty, Justice and Humanity, in relieving our suffering fellow Citizens. A Regard to the Constitution, and the confederation, and affection to the Common-wealth which seemed to require we should rectify many mistakes in fact from which erroneous Consequences have been deduced in the message, have call'd forth this Reply. We do not mean to wage a war of messages and addresses which, the czperience of for- mer times shows, irritate but never convince. The business of Legisla- tion neither admits our employing our time or spending public money in disputes. If the Engagements of your Excellency and the Hono- rable Board leave you at leisure to attend to other Cases than those of the Council, we shall always be happy to receive your assistance, and advice in the approved and long practised mode of Conference, not only as the most Constitutional when there is only a single Branch of Legislature, but best adapted for reasoning and conviction Peace and Harmony. Signed by order of the House. JOHN BAYARD, Speaker.” Assembly Chamber, Philadelphia, December 24th, 1784. CoPY OF A LETTER, JoHN ADAMs, 1784. Si Auteiul, near Paris, Nov. 3d, 1784. ir Dr. Franklin has lately communicated to Mr. Jefferson and me, a letter he has received from the Comte de Vergennes, and another from Mr. Grand, the first informs that Mr. Marbois had informed him, that upon his application to the superintendant of Finances, he * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p 289, & answer 328, 343.
Page 385
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 385 had received an answer by Mr. Governeur Morris, that letters should be written both to Amsterdam and Paris, to provide for the pay- ment of the interest of the ten million of livres borrowed for the United States in Holland, by the King, and reminds the American Minister that other interest is due, and the first payment of the capital will become due next year. Mr. Grands letter informs, that he is already about fifty thousand livres in advance for loan office certificates, Salaries, &ce.; These letters the Dr. will no doubt transmit to Congress and as they relate to matters within his Department; I might have been excused from mentioning them; if the mention of Amsterdam had not made it probable, that Mr. Morris had it in contemplation to draw upon our Bankers there for money to discharge this interest; and I cannot excuse myself from observing that if * should be made, I am apprehensive they will be pro- tested. France is at present in so much danger of being forced to take part in a War, in the low Countries, that I am not surprized at the Comte de Vergennes' attention to matters of revenue and that I cannot see any hope that Doctor Franklin will be able to obtain any relief from this Court. It will be remembered that there is a debt of near a million and an half sterling to France, and another debt of more than half a million sterling in Holland, whose interests are constantly accru- ing. There are also salaries to Ministers; and there is another call for money, which is very pressing. The Commerce of the Medite- ranean is of great importance to the United States, and to every one of them, and this commerce cannot be enjoyed without treaties with the Barbary Powers. It will be not only in vain, but dangerous and detrimental to open negotiations with these powers without money for the customary presents. How are all these demands for money to be satisfied ? If Cash, Bills, or produce can be sent to Europe for the purpose, it will be happy for us. But I suppose that no man believes it possible, and therefore we must not only forgo great future advantages, but violate contracts already made, and faith already pledged, and thereby totally ruin our credit, if not expose the property of our Merchants to be seized abroad, or we must borrow more money in Europe. Now there is no part of Eu- rope in which we can expect to borrow, unless it be in Holland, and there we may rely upon it all our hopes will fail us, if effectual measures are not taken to fund our foreign debt, if adequate funds were established for discharging the interest we may hope for fur- ther Credit; without them our circumstances are truly desperate. It is not for me to enter into the question, how this is to be done so far distant, and so long absent, it would be impossible for me to form a Judgment, if the subject were within my province which it is not. The ability of our people for this and much greater things cannot be doubted by any Man who knows any thing of their affairs, and º --
Page 386
386 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. it is a pity that any questions about the made should retard this most necessary provision for the existence of our Credit abroad. I have this moment a letter from our bankers at Amsterdam, dated the 28th of Oct. in which they inform me that they have not received the ratification of my last Loan, perhaps it did not arrive till after the recess of Congress. I must earnestly request that Congress would dispatch it as early as possible after their meeting, because the delay of it may excite an alarm, and dash all our hopes at once. The half million sterling which we have obtained in Hol- land has been all transmitted to America in Dollars by the way of Havannah, or paid in redeeming Bills of Exchange, sold in America for very advantageous premiums; none of it has been laid out in goods, and therefore every other consideration calls upon us to be punctual as well as our honor, which alone, ought to be sufficient. (Signed,) JOHN ADAMS. Indorsed, 1785, recd. Jan'y 31st. Copy of a Letter from Honble John Adams, Esquire, dated near Paris, November 3d, 1784. Entered. ExtRACT of A LETTER FROM THE Honble John ADAMs, BENJAMIN FRANKLIN & THOMAS JEFFERSON, 1784. Extract of a Letter from the Honble John Adams, Benjamin Franklin & Thomas Jefferson, dated at Paris, 11th November, 1784. “A Letter received from the Count de Vergennes, & another from Mons'r Grand to Doctor Franklin, of which No. 21 & 22 are Copies, give us reason to apprehend an uneasiness in this Court lest we should fail not only in the punctual payment of the interest on their particular Loans, but should permit the payment on the Dutch Loan, which this Court guaranteed, to fall in the first instance upon them. This circumstance under the present probability of a war in Europe might be really inconvenient to them and give unfavor- able ideas of the sense we entertain of their past favours. Con- gress will know whether measures have been taken to make timely payments here, and they can best judge of what exertions the States are capable for reducing their foreign debt, even faster than their stipulations require. A hearty disposition in the people goes far towards making them equal to whatever it is their duty and interest to do; and we cannot help supposing that if our countrymen would boldly look that part of their foreign debt in the face, which they have a right to discharge, if they would view it and view
Page 387
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 387 themselves, they would find they could master it, perhaps with a single effort; of this we can assure them that nothing would pro- duce such a revolution in the opinion entertained in Europe of their powers, of their justice & of the tone of their government. If a reputation for equity and gratitude, if a demonstration of our re- sources and of our resolution, if the subjection of the riches of Europe to our wishes on any future emergency may be bought at half a Guinea a head cannot our countrymen be roused to make the purchase? Add to this that it would command for us a respect which might save us in the end, millions of money, and torrents of blood. Congress we hope will pardon us these reflections. We are on a field were every circumstance tends to produce them. Our in- structions as to a gratification and indemnification to John Baptist Pequet has not yet been complied with ; Mr. Grand's Letter will assign the reason. The honor of our own country as well as our own feelings will not permit us to pass unnoticed, that we are now depending for daily subsistance on the bounty of a subject of this Kingdom; A bounty which he tells us in his Letter, “qu'il sera forcé mettre des bornes,” (he will be forced to set bonds.) We trust that Congress will be so good as to order us effectual and instantaneous relief from this Situation. Indorsed, 1785, recd. Jan'y 31st. Extract of a Letter from Homble John Adams, Benjamin Franklin & Thomas Jefferson, dated at Paris, November 11th, 1784.
Page 388
388 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Z 2. RETURN OF DESERTERS FROM A DETACHMENT Returns of Deserters, with their description, &c. who deserted from the Cloaths, Arms, &c, which they have received, likewise their pay Camp on the Indian :- *!. west side of Place born | Inlisted. Trade . Alligany River, or resided. or Occu- # December 1st, 1784. When. where pation. | From Cap. Douglass | Co. of Artillery. | 1 James Morton, Ireland, 30 Aug., Phila., Farmer, 22 2|John Moungstam, Germany, 31 do do do 29 #Thom. Smith," Ireland.” 30 do | do | do ºf 4 John Hancock, |England, 24 do do Labourer, 24 From Cap. Finney's Co. Infantry. 5'John Coleman, Germany, 25 Aug., Phila., Stone C'r, 25 6 Jos. Bottomley, England, 18 Sept’r, do Weaver, 25 7 Thomas Delap, Ireland, 23 Aug., do do 25 8 Patrick Fowler, do 30 do do Tanner, 30 9 Jno. Leard, do |31 do do Labourer, 28 10 Adam Myre, Germany, 30 do do Barber, 26 11|Conrad Huffner, do 30 do do Fuller, 24 12|John Kidd, do 80 Sept’r, do |Labourer, 32 13. Thomas Atkinson, Jersey, 23 Aug., do |Labourer, 17 14 Edw. McCarday, Ireland. 28 do do Weaver, 26 15 Jno Dunnivan, do 28 do do Labourer, 23 16 Osburn Pearson, Connecticut,23 do do do 21 17|James Davidson, Penn'a, 26 do do do 31 18|Thomas Service, |Ireland, 27 do do do 25 ig Jno. Sutherland, Scotland, 27 do do Brk S-n",31 20 Jno. Kerney, Ireland, 27 do do Weaver, 35 21 Philip McDonald, do 28 do | do Labourer, 32 22 Thomas Everly, England, 28 do | do j,”35 23 Thomas Howell, Delaware, 30 do do do 28 24 Samuel Moor, Penn'a. 30 do do Hatter, 27 25 Patrick O’Haro, Ireland, 31 do do Labourer, 29 26 William Smith, do 31 do do Taylor, 30 27 James Melvin, do 28 do do Taylor, 39 28 John Eir, Mass., 31 do do Turner, 27 29 Da'l M’Mullan, Ireland, 23 do do Labourer,30 The columns containing a detailed description, and the cleathing and arms, are not printed, although in the original.
End of Section 131. Continue to next section or 
Section 132
Page 389
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 389 * of THE 1st AMERICAN REGIMENT, 1785. a detachment of the 1st American Regiment, with an Invento ry of & as soldiers in the 1st A* R's', com" by Jos. Harmar, E”, L' 0" Cº. Camp on the Indian - shore west side of Place born Inlisted, Trade Alligany IRiver, or resided. or Occu- š, December 1st, 1784. When. Where. pation. -ſ; From Cap. Zeiglars - Co. Infantry. 30|Jno. Hendrickson, Jersey, 10 Sept’r, Phila, Labourer, 25 31|Andrew Scott, Penn'a, 26 do do Shoem’r, 30 32|William Griffey, do 26 do do Labourer, 80 33|Robert Garnett, do 24 Aug., Lanc’r, do |30 34|Jno. Johnston, do | 6 Septºr, Phila, do 20 35|Francis Johnston, do 23 Aug., Carl'le, do 29 36|John Davidson, do 10 Sept’r, Phila., Taylor, 22 37|Casper Morritz, do 7 Oct., Carl'le, Taylor, 20 38|Albert Legrand, do 25 Sept’r, Phila., Cook, 28 39|Mathias Goltier, do 14 do do |Labourer, 28 40 Francis Usman, Germany, 1 do do Taylor, 23 41|Carl Reynard, O 27 Aug., do |Labourer, 24 42|George Clark, Penn'a, 27 do do Cooper, 21 43|James Coleman, Delaware, 29 do do |Labourer, 44|Jno. Stephenson, Penn'a, 30 do do do 22 45||Nicholas Laplain, France, | 8 Sept’r, do do |23 46 Frederick Miller, Germany, 23 do do Shoem'r, 26 47|William Justice, Penn'a, 26 do do |Labourer, 30 48|Patrick Turner, Ireland, i. i. do do 30 From Cap. McCur. day's Comp’y. 49 Edward Gaffney, Ireland, 27 Aug., Phila, W*C*|35 50 Thomas Grimes, Scotland, 15 Sept’r, do |Laboures, 25 51|John Smith, Penn'a, 18 Aug, do Weaver, 28 52 John Sides, do 25 Sept’r, do |Labourer, 25 53, David Brown, do | 3 | do | do Farmer, "21 54 Edw'd Leonard, N. York, 30 Aug., do Shoem'r, 29 55Jno. Read, Jersey, 21 do do Labourer, 25 56 Dennis Carney, Ireland, 12 Sept’r, do do |28 57 Jno. Snyder, Penn'a, 26 do do do 21 58, Jno. McLaughlin, Ireland, 19 Aug., do | do 26 59.Jno. Burns, do 28 do do Farmer, 27 60. Henry Tatterson, Jersey, 21 do do Naylor, 24 No 38 and No. 39, Albert Legrand and Mathias Goltier, are two French Men, who have deserted from this place and gone down the river to the Illinois Country. JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Com. 1st Am. Reg't. 17+
Page 390
š 'Monthly RETURN of THE PENNSYLVANIA TR00Ps, 1784. Monthly Return of the Pennsylvania Troops in the Service of the United States, commanded by Josiah Harmar, Esqr, Lieut.-Colonel commandant, Camp on the Indian Shore, West side of the Allegany river, December 1st, 1784. Present fit for duty, 3 1 Extra Service is waiter to General Butler, one of the Continen- tal Commissioners. --- Officers present fit for duty. Wanting -- Rank & File. to - --- Non-commisſa. Complete. - - * TT, TIFF ## = --- # F#3 ##| |-|3|E|| 3 || |#######| #3 - - - .5 . ... wº *-i- - - * |z|= |s|}}|s ºflá; ; ; ######### Total Artillery, - - --- --- - - - - - - Infantry Companies, 3:15 § ##Tºls #3 3: # 5.3 #3* āl; : including Hon. + #########|3 ### #########!ºoniº, - - - a 1- ----- - - = 5:53.55:3#3 & #3; ##3 & # 3353 music, 49 --- -- - ——l–Total Infan- Captain Walter Finney, 1 || 1 1|1|1|1| 1 || 3 || 46 3 1 55 1 º ditto, 182 Captain David Ziegler, 1| 1 4|| 2 53 4 7|Wanting to Captain William McCurdy. 1|1|1 21 2 51 6 3 4 complete, 29 - - --- - -I-I- - - Total Infantry. 1321|| 1 || || || 1 || || 5, 150183 260 - £5 12.É.- : 2 < | Remarks, Lieut. Herbert is suspended from his command until - - = |3 Tºš Hä toº orders from Congressor the War office. Ensign Armstrong is Captain Douglass sº Com- 3 * 3. H 3 - É * = Sick absent in Philadelphia. No Chaplain is as yet appointed. pany of Artillery, ā- £ 3-3 5 : 5 - 5 Ensign Denny acts as Adjutant pro tem. The 3 Sick absent were º Hºlºa- * 33 =3|iºn ºn the narch from Philadelphia to Fort Pitt. The 1 on 1 - 1 8 232 2 Sick present, TotalArtillery, i ; : 1 1 4 3. 3 |- g 1 JOS. HARMAR,” Lt.-Col. Cond, 1st Amn. Regt. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 311.

This page contains an image.
End of Section 132. Continue to next section or 
Section 133
Page 391
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 891 CoL. JosLAH HARMAR TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Camp near Fort Pitt, on the Indian Shore, the Western side of the Allegany river, December 5th, 1784. Sir, I have the honor to inform your Excellency & the Honourable' Council of the arrival of the first Detachment of Pennsylvania Troops, composed of Captain Douglass's company of artillery, & Captain Finney's company of Infantry at this place on the 18th, October last. The second Detachment composed of Captain Zeiglers's & Captain McCurdy's companies of Infantry arrived here on the 29th of the same month. - We have remained in this position till this day, in hourly expec- tation of the Commissioners; they are just arrived, and upon a Con- sultation, considering the advanced Season of the year, the difficulty of supplies, Expence of Transportation, &c., to Cayahoga; they have resolved to hold the Treaty at Fort McIntosh, thirty miles distant from Fort Pitt, down the Ohio river. In Consequence of their resolve, the Troops marched this morning from this Encampment for Fort McIntosh, the Tents baggage &c., are to go by water. Mr. Alexander Lowrey messenger to the Com- missioners was dispatched this day to Cayahoga, with an Invitation to the Indians to assemble at Fort McIntosh. The Fort is in very bad order, & will require considerable repairs before the Troops can have comfortable winter quarters. Inclosed, your Excellency & the Honourable Council, will be pleased to receive a return of the Pennsylvania Troops, likewise a List of all Deserters with their descriptions since the corps was raised. Lieut. Herbert, I have ordered suspended in his command & have written this day to the Secretary in the War Office for orders in his case, as a General Court Martial cannot be convened for his Trial. The List of Deserters is indeed very considerable owing to the extreme hurry in raising the corps; I apprehend the chief part of these Villains must be lurking about the City of Philadelphia, as most all of them had attachments there. I have suggested to the Secretary in the War office, that perhaps it might be adviseablo to advertize & offer pardon to them, provided they delivered themselves up in a limited time; your Excellency will please to observe that my Total at present is only 231 including Non-Comd. offrs. & music consequently 29 are wanting to complete; my sole dependance is,
End of Section 133. Continue to next section or 
Section 134
Page 392
392 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. upon apprehending the deserters, in order to have my full comple- ment of men. I have the honor to be, with the highest Esteem & respect, Your Excellency's & the Honble. Councils, most obedt. Servt. JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. comd. 1st Am. Regt. Directed, His Excy. John Dickinson, Esq. & The Honble. The Supreme Executive Council. Edw. CRAwPORD, JR., To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Dear Sir, I beg leave to inform you that there has never been any marriage or Tavern license Received in Franklin County as yet, there has been several applications and I think if there were a few of each ordered something might be saved to the Commonwealth. The bearer Colo. Cook will be so good as to forward them if you should send any. I am Dr. Sir, your most obdt. and very Humble Servt. EDW. CRAWFORD, Jun. Franklin County, 24 Decr., 1784. Directed, (Public Service.) John Armstrong, Jun., Secretary to the Executive Council of Penna, Philadelphia.
Page 393
MonTELY RETURN of THE PENNSYLVANIA TR00PS IN THE SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES, 1785. Monthly Return of the Penna. Troops in the Service of the United States, commanded by Josiah Harmar, Esq., Lieut. Col. Comd. Fort McIntosh, January 1st, 1785.” - º Infantry Companies, Captain Walter Finney's, Captain David Zeigler, Captain William McCurdy, Total Infantry. Capt. Douglass company of Artillery. - Present fit for duty, Sick present, Total Artillery, officers present fit for duty. - Want'g to Field. Comm'd. staff. Non-com Rank and File, complete. --- -- IT- - - - –3 - - - * -e-...s.l.. 1 -ºº: E.T.: g; . . The 3 sick absent, were left on 3 3|-|3 ilālā * . #: . 5|E # #3 5 - : s the march from Piratofort Pitt. ălălă 2.É|##|s #|3|E = #|#35 s , 3 ** The 4 on extra service are wait- - #13 |f| = |*|E|3|-|-|3|2|= . H.323 T 3: 3 #ºers to the Continental Commis- 3 =1####|*|†lsº: ; ; Bººlºº Bºžº 3,3: signers 353.3 |3|3|_+!? ##|: Flº 3.5 ± 3|E|3: ###|####" one m deserted since last 5133 35&##|z|23 = F * Z. &c=5 c = |*||alſº º º sin 1 1|1|1|1 - - - 1. 1-8-11-471-4 1 57 112 - * | 1 || 1 || 1 4-2-47| 8 |-| 2 63 7 1| 1 || 1 2 2-47| 8 || 3 || 1 63 2 5 TT522 TF1 iſ iſ iſ of 51.41203 aſ 1sº 2124 Comºdºxon commissioned officers and Is omºrs. Privates. †: Remarks. º #| ||= # ## āl Lieut. Herbert is suspended from his command until orders from lº ## -> : #ºº 3 Congress or the War Office. #### # É *|# 5 § 3.31 Ensign Armstrong is sick present. 3. # 3|E|3|= : E 3%3: * No Chaplain is as yet appointed. ####### #5 ºf #| Ensign Penny acts as adjutant Pro tem. -- *|-- ******** Mr. Nathan McDowell having Recd, the appointment of an Ensign T T 2 sº Tº Tº 33 40 Tiſha; joined his command since last return. 1 2 8 One Serjeant of the Artillery reduced to a matross since last return. --- H --------- --- JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Comd. 1st, Amr. Regt. 1, 1818, 8 & 2.35 49 || 11 -* See page 395.

This page contains an image.
Page 394
394 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. WM. ATTLEE to PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Lancaster, ye 3rd January, 1785. Sir, - I was yesterday honoured with your Letter of the 17th of last month, mentioning that the original minute of my appointment as Deputy Commissary Genl. of Musters for Lancaster County cannot be found and requesting that a Copy of it may be transmitted to Ou. y At the time of my resignation of that appointment I handed the original to Council with whom it remained, & as I did not keep a Copy of it, cannot have the honour of complying with the wish of Council by transmitting it. Upon examining the Copies of muster Rolls in my possession, the earliest date I find is the 12th of August 1776, when I mustered some of the first Company's of ye Militia who marched to Jersey from this County (tho' we had Guards on duty over the Prisoners of War taken at St. John &c., for a con- siderable time beyond that)—it was sometime after that when I received the regular appointment as Depy. Comy. Genl. of muster for Lancaster County, the date of which I cannot ascertain, & it was I think, in February 1778 that I resigned the appointment to his Excellency President Wharton & the Honble. Council then at Lan- caster from a pursuasion that there was an impropriety in my holding that appointment under the State, after taking the oaths as one of the Justices of the supreme Court. I should gladly have complied with the commands of Council was it in my power. & am, Sir, with sentiments of respect, your most obed. Servt. - WILLM. ATTLEE. Directed, John Armstrong, junr., Esquire, Secretary of the Supreme Exe- cutive Council, Philadelphia. - CoI. Joseph HARMAR TO PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Si Fort McIntosh, January 15th, 1785. 51r - i had the honor of addressing your Excellency and the Honorable Council on the 5th ult", inclosing a return of the Pennsylvania º in the service of the United States, dated the 1st December ast.* * See page, 390,
Page 395
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 895 Inclosed your Excellency will be pleased to receive another Monthly return of the Troops, dated the 1st inst. The whole corps have been on constant fatigue since their arrival here, in repairing the fort, and fitting up rooms, Stores, &c., for accom- modating the Continental and State Commissioners; which has in- jured the clothing much. - - A few days since, the Treaty commenced, and I believe will be satisfactorily concluded against the latter end of this month; altho' the Chiefs of the Wyondot's, Chippaway's Delaware's & Otaway's, which are the Nations that are assembled here,) in a speech they delivered at the Council fire yesterday, held out an Idea to the Continental Commissioners, that they still looked upon the Lands which the United States held by the Treaty with Great Britain, as their own; but the Commissioners have answered them in a high tone; the Purport of which was, that as they had adhered during the war to the King of Great Britain, they were considered by us as a conquered people, and had therefore nothing to expect from the United States, but must depend altogether upon their Lenity and Generosity. This spirited answer it is supposed will have the Desired Effect. The State Commissioners I believe will not have the least diffi- culty in transacting their business, which lays with the Wyondot & Delaware Nations. I have the honor to be, with the greatest Esteem & respect, your Excellency's & The Honorable Council's most hble, & obdt. Servt., JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Com. 1st Am" Regt. Directed, - His Excelleney, John Dickinson, Esq., President, & The Honor- able The Supreme Executive Council. INDIAN COMM'RS TO PRES, DICKINSON, 1785. Fort McIntosh, Jan'y 16, 1785. Sir, Opportunities to Philadelphia very seldom offer, and indeed the present is an uncertain one, we therefore hope this will apologize for our communications not being more frequent. We now have the honor of informing your Excellency that our business wears a very promising aspect. The Wiandotts and the several Tribes of the Delaware Nation with whom alone we are to negociate, (for the Shawanese have no claim,) have agreed to our proposals, and as soon as peace shall be established, which we doubt * See page 393.
Page 396
396 PENNSYLVANLA ARCHIVES 1785, not, the Continental Commissioners will effect in a few days, we shall have our Deed executed in due legal form for the unpurchased Lands within the acknowledged limits of Pennsylvania.” Desirous of returning to Philadelphia to make a final Report of our proceedings to your Excellency and the Honorable Council, we shall use all possible diligence in bringing our negociations to a close. We have the Honor to be, your Excellency's most obedient and very humble servants, SAM’L J. ATLEE, FRAN'S JOHNSTON. Directed,—Public Service. His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., President in Council, Philadelphia. Thos. McKEAN TO PREs. DICKINsoN, 1785. Philadelphia, January 17th, 1785. Sir, A certain Abraham Bare & son of John Bare, a worthy citizen of Lancaster county, about the month of January, 1778, being then a very young man, was seduced by a traitor to assist him in convey- ing several Hessian prisoners of war from Lancaster to this City, and for reward delivering them up to General Sir William Howe. As soon as this traffick was discovered, Judge Atlee issued his warrant to apprehend them, but they fled, and took refuge with the British army. However a short time previous to their evacuation of the city, Bare left them, was attainted of treason by a proclama- tion of the Supreme Executive Council, and his estate was sold by the Agents for forfeited estates; since this he has lurked in secret places in the back counties, in constant dread of the hand of justice. Judge Atlee has lately informed me that he is fully satisfied, this man has become a sincere penitent. In consideration of which, he joins with me in recommending him as an object worthy of the humanity and mercy of Your Excellency and the Council, and in interceding for a pardon for his person, “that he may live and not die.” I have the honor to be, with the most perfect Esteem, Sir, Your Excellency's most obedient and very humble servant, Directed, THOS. McKEAN.f His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President, &c., of Pennsylvania. - ** This deed was signed January 21, 1785; see this and all other documents relating to this purchase in the Journals of Assembly, February, —April, 1785. Note to Smith's Laws, Vol. II., p. 123. # See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 318.
End of Section 134. Continue to next section or 
Section 135
Page 397
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 897 PREs. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGREss, 1785. In Council, January 18th, 1785. Sir we have received your Letter of the 14th, & are very much obliged to you for the Intelligence conveyed in it, & for the attention you have had to the Interest of your Native Land. We have desired Mr. Henry fully to communicate to you, the Information we have given him upon the subject; and we hope they are such as will afford you great satisfaction, and convince you that Pennsylvania has been more offended against than offending in this troublesome Business. With sincere wishes for your Happiness, and with high Esteem, I am sir, your most obedient & most humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON." Directed, The Honorable Hugh Williams, Esquire, Delegate in Congress from the State of North Carolina, New York. - PREs, DICKINSON TO PREs. OF CONGREss, 1785. Si In Council, January 18th, 1785. 1r, On the 20th of last Month, we had the honor of addressing a Letter to you enclosing copies of a Law of this State, entitled “An Act to carry into immediate Effect the Resolutions of the United States in Congress assembled for adjusting the claims of individuals of this Commonwealth against the said United States,” & of Reso- lutions of the General Assembly upon the same subject. We requested an early determination of Congress upon the Busi- ness; and while we trust that Congress will do justice to the re- spectful deference for them, which induces us earnestly to wish that they may appoint the additional Commissioners, we also confide that they will consider the situation in which we are placed by delaying the execution of a Law, & will therefore think our Conduct very proper in repeating our Request. - We were informed last Saturday, that application has been made to Congress on behalf of Claimers of Lands withiu this State, the Jurisdiction over which was lately claimed by the State of Connec- * Respecting Letter from Governor Conn., to Congress Dec., 24, 1784; & resolutions of Assembly. Complaints of Persons by settlers, see H. W.'s letter in Letter Book, Vol. I., p. 287; and see Col. Rec. XIV., p. 317.
Page 398
398 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. ticut, for a Court to be appointed to try their private Right of soil. .. The Recess of the General Assembly at this time who cannot meet till the first of next month, and several other circumstances will put it out of our power to have this matter brought before Congress in a proper manner sooner than about the middle of February. We therefore hope that no Measures will be adopted in this important affair, untill this Commonwealth is prepared to offer her Representations to Congress upon it. Iam with great esteem, Sir, your Excellency's most obedient humble Servt., JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, His Excellency, The President of Congress. PRES. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1785. In Council, January 18th, 1785. - Gentlemen, On the 20th of last month” we wrote to you concerning the late Act & Resolution of Assembly for adjusting claims of Individuals against the United States, earnestly requesting your exertions, to obtain an appointment of the additional Commissioners by Con- gress, as the Assembly is soon to meet, & the pressure of affairs calls for a speedy Decision of the Business, we now think it our Duty to repeat our Request, assuring you, that the Decision cannot be delayed without very disagreeable consequences. We now inclose several papers relating to the Claims and Conduct of the persons pretending Right to the Lands at & near to Wyoming, & the proceedings of this State thereon, being informed that appli- cation has been made to Congress for a Court to be appointed under º ninth article of the Confederation, to try the private Right of SOli. - The late Assembly was of opinion, that those persons were not entitled to such a Court; and therefore it seems proper, that the appointment in this case should be contested. Two Gentlemen of the Law Messrs. Wilson & Bradford were employed as agents among other things, to dispute that point. They repaired to Annapolis, & appeared there on the 28th of last June, according to the preceding Resolutions of Congress; but no person was there to Act on Behalf of Connecticut or the Claimants. It is impossible in any very short time to send those gentlemen to New York properly prepared. Re- spect for the General Assembly dictates that their Sentiments on this very important Business should be known and regarded; and we are * See page 869.
Page 399
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 899 persuaded, that this State cannot fully offer Representations even against the appointment of the Court untill about the Middle of next month. We rely on your prudence to make the best use of the intelligence now communicated to you. The first point, is to prevent any step being taken by Congress in the matter, untill the sentiments of the Legislative branch can be known. If this delay cannot be obtained, we desire you to give us the earliest notice of the Day fixed by Congress for appointing a Court, that we may prevail upon Messrs. Wilson & Bradford, if it be possible for them to attend. Duty to ourselves requires us to shew and candour will induce even the State of Connecticut to acknowledge, that tho' several violent and outrageous acts have been committed by individuals of this State; yet that such acts were not more opposed to Justice and humanity than to the spirit and meaning of the Authority and Laws of this Commonwealth. The inclosed paper will shew the uniform Lenity of this Govern- ment and in many instances their extreme anxiety to bring the Connecticut Claimants into an affectionate confidence upon its dis- positions and its laws. It is much to be regretted that these endeavours have been so uniformily treated with insolence and neglect by the People, they were intended to relieve and attach, and that we should have it in our power to oppose so many facts authenticated in the most solemn manner, to their feeble unsupported professions of Loyalty and obedience. A late outrage mentioned in the deposition inclosed from which it appears that they have plundered Men, Women and Children, indiscriminately and obliged near 600 people to fly from their homes and seek a precarious subsistence in the Neighbouring Counties, is so alarming and unaccountable in its nature as to induce a belief in this Board that the system of Lenity which they have hitherto pur- sued, is no longer calculated to promote either the honor or happi- ness of Pennsylvania. I am, Gentlemen, with great Regard, Yours obedient and very humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON.” To the Honble the Delegates of Pennsylvania in Congress. PREs. DICKINSON To JAMES WILSON, 1785. In Council, January 20th, 1785. Sir - As you have been appointed one of the agents for managing the Dispute concerning the private Right of soil to the Lands on the * See list of documents, &c., sent. Col. Rec., Wol. XIV, pp. 818–821. -
Page 400
400 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, Susquehannah, the Jurisdiction over which was lately in Controversy between this State & the State of Connecticut, we think it proper to inform you, that application has been made to Congress since their adjournment to New York, for the appointment of a Court under the ninth article of the confederation, to try the said Right. Understanding that you propose to be at New York in the course of the next week, We desire, that you will employ all the Means in your Power, to prevent any step being taken in the Business, untill the general assembly meet on the first of next month, and they can be consulted upon it. The Delegates of this State will give you all the Intelligence on the subject, which we have communicated to them; but it will require considerable time to collect Documents, & have them Copied, in order to be fully prepared to make proper Representations in Behalf of this Commonwealth. The late assembly were clearly of opinion, that the Claimants were not entitled to such a Court as has been mentioned, & we apprehend, no appointment ought to be made, nor any Decision given upon the Question of Right, till the sense of the present assembly can be known, & they can be heard, if they judge it advisable to controvert the : of an appointment, As several Communications have been made by us to you some time ago upon this affair, we do not doubt but you will make the best use of them & of those you may receive from the Delegates for main- taining the Honor & Interests of the State. I am with great Respect, Sir, your most obe'dt H’ble Servº, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, - To James Wilson, Esquire. MANAGERS OF THE STATE LOTTERY TO CouncIL, 1785. To the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council, The Managers of the State Lottery, Most respectfully represent, That they have taken all possible means to avail themselves of the late encouragement given by the Assembly for promoting the sale of tickets in the said Lottery; all which hitherto have, and as the managers believe, will prove abortive, unless a day is fixed when the drawing shall absolutely commence. That they are induced to be of this opinion by the repeated appli- cations made for information on that subject, and the almost daily declarations of numbers who incline to become adventurers, that they will not purchase tickets until it shall be known when the drawing will begin.
Page 401
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 401 The managers therefore beg leave to prepose to the Honorable Council, that Monday, the second day of May next, be fixed for the commencement of the drawing of the first class. M. HILLEGAS, B. FULLER, Managers. MATT'H CLARKSON, State Lottery Office, January 26, 1785.” HoN. JoHN JAY SEc'Y OF For EIGN AFFAIRs To PREs. DickINSoN, 1785. (Circular.) Office for foreign Affairs, New York, Jan'y 29th, 1785. Sir, I have the Honour of transmitting to your Excell’y official Extracts from the Journals of Congress of the sixenth day of May, and of twenty-first day of Decº last. The first certifies my appoint- ment to be “Secretary of the United States of America for the Department of foreign Affairs” and the second my having accepted that Place and taken the oath of Office. The latter happened only two days before the adjournment of Congress from Trenton to meet at this Place on the 11th Instant. - - The Removal of the office from there here, and the time neces- sarily employed in preparing accommodations for it, and putting things in order for Business, delayed its being opened before yester- day, and will account for my not having sooner requested the Honor of your Correspondence. Permit me to observe, Sir, that it is part of my duty “to corres- “pond with the Governors or Presidents of all or any of the United “States, affording them such information from his Department as “may be useful to their States or to the United States, stating “Complaints that may have been urged against the Government of “any of the said States or the Subjects thereof by the Subjects of “foreign Powers, so that justice may be done agreeably to the Laws “of such State or the charge proved to be groundless, and the Honor “of the Government vindicated.” It will be unnecessary to remark to your Excell’y the influence of our domestic affairs on our foreign, their intimate connexion with each other, and how necessary it is that they who are concerned in conducting the latter should be accurately informed of the State of the former. These Considerations lead me to request the favor of your Excel- lency to afford me from time to time such Intelligence on this Head * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 324,
Page 402
402 PENNSYLVANA ARCHIVES 1785. as you may deem important, and particularly that you would be so obliging as to send me a copy of the Laws of your State now in force, and also copies of such as may from time to time be passed. Cases may happen in which a reference to these Laws will be indispensable, and for that and other Reasons I am anxious that the Office for foreign affairs should have a compleat Collection of them. Whatever Expence may be occasioned by it, shall be immediately paid out of the monies provided for the contingent Expences of the Office Your Excellency may rely on my punctuality in communicating to you whatever Intelligence my Department may afford that may be useful for you to know. I have the Honor to be your Excellency's Most Obd & very H'ble Serv', JOHN JAY.” . Directed, To His Excellency The President of the State of Pennsylvania. By the United States in Congress Assembled. May 7th 1784. Congress proceeded to the election of a Secretary for foreign affairs, and being this Day informed by a letter of the 9th of March last from Doct'r Franklin that Mr. J. Jay proposed to embark for America in the month of April, and this information corresponding with the Intelligence communicated to Congress by Mr. Jay himself in his letters of last year, Mr. Jay was put in nomination; and the Ballots being taken: Mr. John Jay was elected Secretary for foreign affairs, having been previously nominated by Mr. Gerry. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. I do farther certify that the said John Jay, esquire, having on the 21st day of December, 1784, taken the oath of fidelity & oath of Office befor the hon’ble Isaac Smith, one of the Justices of the Supreme Court of the state of New Jersey, a certificate of the same is lodged in the office of the Secretary of the United States in Congress, assembled. t CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 356. 2 - .
Page 403
3. Monthly RETURN of THE PENNSYLVANIA TRoops IN THE SERVICE of THE UNITED STATEs, 1785. |Monthly Return of the Pennsylvania Troops in the service of the United States, commanded by Josiah Harmar, Esqr., Lieutenant Colonel commandant, Fort McIntosh, February 1st, 1785. omcers present fit for duty. - | - ºr º: Want"g to Field. Comm’d. Staff. Non º: Rank & File. complete. - - : .. |f| |#3 . . . ; ; ; ŽT. 3..; , ; ;|||}|...}; ####" .;; Infantry °: ºil 3 || 2 | = |*|† = ; : * = 3 || 3 || || 5 || :: * - "c c | E a jº- + - : * | E ſ: - S ºn 3 Companies. # = 3 # ##| |##|s|: #| || ălă ă|-3 # 3 |#|2|* : 3|->|- i. sº T. [. # *. ºn 3 Tº...? 3 ||3|{ * ă ă ă ă ă = |s|≤|5|3|E|FH: £ 3% ºf ºr 3 tº # = |* = - - -- à 335|3 5 33%;"|5|}|s & 5 # # 53 #5 à |}|s|3 Alsº, since last return -----|--|--|--|--|--|--|-- ----- 1.T.T. two privates Dead. l 1| 1 || 1 || 1 Capt. W. Finney's 1 1 1|3|1| 45' 5 1 56 1||13 Capt. D. Zeigler's, 1| 1 || 1 4| 2 4511 -62 8. Capt. W. McCurday's, 1. 1 || 1 2|2 50 & 8 68 2 5. - Total Infantry. 1 8, 2 3 | 1 || 1 || || 9 5.1402 & 17s. Too §. Non Commissioned Officers and rs. * ~ || - Remarks. # - |: # - |É 5 5 # Lieut. Herbertis suspended from his command untill orders from Con- Cap, Douglass's com-12 |3|: # 5 ºf : ## § 7 : gress or the war office,—no Chaplain is as yet appointed.—Ensign Denny pany of Artillery := | f |f|5|3|: 2 |# |F 5 § 3 ||act, as Adujutant pro. tem. 2 #. B # ##|5|É|5|3% ###| Mr. Nathan McDowel was appointed an Ensign by the State of Penn- .* # # 53 5 Ä # É #5 # # sylvania on the 21st Octobr. last. 2. Tºl----|--|--|--|-- ~~~. The three sick absent were left on the march to Fort Pitt. Present fit for duty. 1| 1 || 3| 3| 3| 8, 235 49 | 1. The one on Extra service was allowed to Mr. Arthur Lee as a waiter to Sick present, go with him to New York. –––––1-1–1–––– JOS. HARMAR, Total Artillery 1|1| 3| 3| 3 8. 235 49 || 1 Lt. Col. Com'd 1st Am'rn Regt.
Page 404
404 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. FIELD OFFICERs ELECTED FOR North UMBERLAND County, 1785. Return of the Field Officers Elected for Northumberland County, Militia, with their Rank of Batt". Peter Hosterman, Lieu' Col., { Christopher Gotting, Major. James-Morrow, Lieu' Col., {}. McMaughin, Major. 3 Wyoming district, no election held on { Account of the disturbances at that place. 4 William Hempburn, L' Col., John Chattam, Major. 5 John Kelly, Lieu' Col., Thomas Foster, Major. I do hereby certifie the above account to be just, Wm. WILSON, Lieut. Commissions made out according to the foregoing Return, dated 1* of May, 1783. [?] Directed, Brigadier General John Armstrong. DAVID MEAD To CouncIL, 1785. Wioming, February 6*, 1785. Gentlemen : I lament that I have occasion to address you on the affair of this unhappy part of the State. I have delayed writing until all hopes of establishing any kind of order is vanished—it is true that irregu- larities have been committed by many of the Pennsylvanians against the Connecticut Claimants, but great Care has been taken that the Offenders are generally prosecuted with severity, and the Courts of Justice are yet open—And unwearied pains have been taken to con- vince those Claimants of the determined Honor and Justice of the State to afford them every restitution in the reach of the Law—But all to no purpose—who have descended to commit almost every kind of disorder, and bid defiance to Government, so that the exercise of the Civil authority is altogether impracticable; they have app" two or three Committees to transact different kinds of business for the pro- motion of their designs; they have formed their Militia, appointed Field and other Officers in contempt of the state—many inoffensive families are now under orders immediately to move away, or their effects to be made a Reprisal of Therefore, as a Citizen and Servant
Page 405
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 405 of Government, I am obliged to claim your protection and support, and am, in the mean time, Gentlemen, with the greatest Respect, Your most humble Servant, DAVID MEAD. N. B.—The inclosed deposition of the Shawnese Township Con- stable,” who was Elected by the Inhabitants of said Township, in consequence of an order issued by Mº Martin and myself, which was most likely to take with the People, and remove doubts than other- wise; so that every Endeavour seems fruitless—the constable of Stoke Township is now out of the place, who made report some days ago nearly corroborating with this deposition, but not taken in form, therefore Omitted. However, the Express can give some Information, who is a Gentleman of Candor and deliberation. D. M.f His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., president. WM. HENRY AND Joseph GARDNER TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. - (Copy.) S New York, Feb's 7", 1785. Ir, The Wioming dispute rests at present, and we hope will do so for some time—we have seen Mr Wilson and rec" by him some additional papers to those brought on by Mº Hervy, relating to that unhappy dispute. The Report of a Committee upon your Exc'ys letter, with yº inclosures, relative to the appointment of additional Comm' for settling & adjusting the acc" of the Citizens of Penn" against the United States, remains undetermined until a report is brought in to prevent frauds supposed to be practised by some persons having un- settled acc", and stated to Congress by Mr. Denning, Comm' in this state, which we hope will be made to morrow. The first report, as brought in, and which we have reason to believe will pass, comes up fully to the Idea of the Legislature as expressed in the act, and we hope they will see the propriety of a further sus- pension of the operation of that Law rather than suffer the state to be reproached with an unfoederal measure, especially as the objects of it can suffer very little by a delay of a week or 10 days, and per- haps not half that time. We are, with due respect, Your Exc'ys very humble serv", WILL" HENRY, JOS. GARDNER. His Exc'y the President of Penn". * Not found. t See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 358. Vol. X.-18
End of Section 135. Continue to next section or 
Section 136
Page 406
406 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. COL. Jos. HARMAR TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. Fort McIntosh, February 8th, 1785. Sir, I had the honor of addressing your Excellency & the Honorable Council on the 15th ult, inclosing a return of the Pennsylvania troops in the Service of the United States, dated the 1" ult". Inclosed, your Excellency will be pleased to receive another monthly return of the Troops, dated the 1" instant. The honorable the State Commissioners, Colonel Atlee & Colonel Johnston, by this time, I imagine, must have arrived at Philadelphia, by whom your Exc'y & the Honorable Council will hear of the Satisfactory Conclusion of the Treaty with the Indians at this post. This Garrison is at length, by hard fatigue of the troops, put in tolerable order. I beg Leave to observe to your Excellency & the Honorable Council, that unless some person is directed to remain here, that immediately upon my marching from hence, it will be demolished by the Emigrators to Kentucky. * Previous to our arrival, they had destroyed the gates, drawn all the Nails from the roofs, taken off all the boards, & plundered it of every Article. I would therefore recommend (for the benefit of the State) to your Excellency & the Honorable Council, to adopt some mode for its preservation, otherwise immediately upon our leaving it, it will again go to ruin. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem & respect, Your Excellency's & The Honorable Council's most hble. & obedt. Serv", JOS. HARMAR L' Col. Com' 1" Am" Reg.” Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President, & the Honora- ble The Supreme Executive Council, Pennsylvania. Honor'd tº Capt. E. Butler. SECR'Y ARMSTRONG TO COMMITTEE OF MERCHANTS, 1785. - Secretary’s office, 10th Febº, 1785. Gentlemen, In answer to your memorial of the Instant, I have the directions of Council to inform you, that they are entirely persuaded of the many advantages which would follow the construction of a * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., pp. 356, 373.
Page 407
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, 407 number of new piers in the river Delaware & that under the influence of this persuasion they had some time before the date of your memorial consulted the Wardens of the port upon the subject, and left to their consideration & reply the following Questions, viz.: In what places the piers were to be fixed. The number proposed. How many ships each were intended to protect, & the Expence, as nearly as it could be estimated. These were points which Council wished to have determined before they ventur'd upon the expenditure of the public money. I am Gentlemen, w" the greatest respect, your most obed serv't. JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. SECR'Y ARMSTRONG To JoHN JAY, SECR'Y &c., 1785. Secretary's office, Philade, 10th Feb'y, 1785. Sir - Ågreeably to a late order of the Supreme Executive Council,” I have the honor to transmit to your office a copy of all the laws made by the Gen. Assembly, of the commonwealth since the revolution: and am, Sir, With the highest respect, Your most obedient, & very humble servant. JN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Secr'y. Directed, The Honorable John Jay, Esqr. Secretary of Foreign affairs, New York. PRES. DICKINSON TO SPEAKER OF ASSEMBLY, 1785. Philadelphia, February 11", 1785. Sir - f beg leave to remind you of the subjects we conversed upon last night, the appointment of Delegates and the Determination of the Assembly respecting the Disposal of the old Prison, workhouse & Lot It is the wish of Council, that the House would revise the act passed in 1705 for bailing of Prisoners & as the allowance for priso- mers therein mentioned still continues, & from the increased Price of Bread is certainly insufficient. - The sheriff of Montgomery county has represented, that there is *See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 356.
End of Section 136. Continue to next section or 
Section 137
Page 408
408 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. no Prison yet built in that county, & therefore requests, that he may be permitted to secure his prisoners in the Gaol of this city & county. It is the desire of Council that provision should be made accordingly by the Legislature. I am, sir, with much esteem, Your most obedient and very humble servant. JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, Honble the Speaker of the General Assembly. ExTRACT OF LETTER FROM MINISTER OF UNITED NETHER- LANDs, 1785. - Copy. Paragraph of a Letter to an eminent Dutch Merchant in London. Philadelphia, September 29. “At length one of the secret articles transpires settled by Mr. Adams in behalf of the thirteen free and independent States of America and the seven United States of Holland viz.: In case of a rupture between the seven United States and other Powers the States of America agree to furnish ten Regiments each Regiment consisting of one Colonel, one Lieutenant colonel, one Major, one Captain, two Lieutenants, two Ensigns, three Sergeants, three Corporals, two Drums and ninety privates, to be transported to the Dutch West India islands or their settlements on the Spanish Main, or to Holland if required; and in case of an attack upon any of the thirteen United States of America, the Dutch have agreed to furnish them with ten ships of the Line: the rank and conditions of payment I could not particularly get at. This information you may rely on, as it came last night from Mº Van B l, the Dutch resident here. Should there be an immediate occasion, the Grand Monarch of Germany will find ten thousand of those daring spirits wafted to the Eastern Continent, who had presumption enough to oppose the disgraceful and arbitrary measures adopted by the Government in which you now reside (which lost them this Country.) There are Dutch and other Ships in this harbour, sufficient to receive that number of troops in six weeks.” Indorsed, February 12th, 1785. From the Minister of the United Nether- lands.” * See page 415, and See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 864.
Page 409
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 409 SECR'Y OF FoREIGN AFFAIRs To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Si Office for foreign Affairs, 15th Febſ, 1785. Ir, I have the Honor of transmitting to your Excellency a Copy of a Letter which Mr. De Marbois wrote me on the 10th Instant and of an anonymous Letter which he inclos'd in it. Altho' anonymous Letters seldom merit much attention, yet as I received it from a public Minister, and as it relates to an affair which has caused great uneasiness, I think it adviseable to transmit it to your Excellency. I have the honor to be with great Respect and Esteem your, Excellencys most ob' and very h’ble Serv'. JOHN JAY.” Directed, His Excellency the President of the executive Council of Pen- sylvania. I have the Honor to transmitt to Mr. Jay an anonymous Letter which I received by yesterday's Post. I am very doubtful whether it has been written with good Intention. Such as it is I thought proper to communicate to the Honorable the Secretary for foreign Affairs. (Signed,) DE MARBOIS. New York, 10th February, 1785. ANONYMoUs LETTER To Mons. DE MARBOIs, 1785. Translation. Sir, My attachment to you & the public good induce me to give you warning that you cannot return here with any degree of security. The friends of Longchamps are outrageous on account of the Steps which they say you are taking against him. It is said that if you should return, they are resolved to take violent measures against you, & he himself threatens to be revenged upon you in an exemplary manner as soon as he is set at liberty. I think that you will do well in neglecting no precaution to secure you from his designs; I beg you will consider that this man hath nothing to lose, that he has no means of subsistence, & that his debts far exceeding the value of his * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 363.
Page 410
410 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Wife's property, he is ripe for any the most desperate undertaking. I do not sign this, not wishing to expose myself to the resentment of those who have communicated their schemes to me, under an injunction of secrecy. I am with profound respect sir, your most humble & most obedient servant, A true Translation, PETER S. DUPONCEAU, Sworn Interpreter. CoMM'Rs on INDIAN AFFAIRs To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Sir, I beg leave to inform your Excellency and the Hon’ble Council, that the commissioners of Indian affairs have in their possession some horses w'h they were under the necessity of purchasing to accommo- date themselves in going to and returning from the late Indian Treaties. As considerable expences will attend their being kept at a Livery Stable (which is the case at present,) I should be glad Council wou'd be pleased to instruct me what to do with them. I have the Honor to be your Excellency's most obt & very H’ble Servant FRA'S JOHNSTON.” Philad'a, Feb'y 16th, 1785. Directed, To His Excellencys John Dickinson, Esquire, President in Council. CouncIL TO DELEGATES IN CoNGREss, 1785. In Council, - February 17th, 1785. Gentlemen, We inclose a Copy of a Memorial lately presented to us by the Merchants & Traders of this City concerning Captures by Barbary Corsairs. The Matter is of so much Moment, that we desire you will immediately bring it before Congress, & endeavour to have the * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 360.
Page 411
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 411 most proper Measures adopted for preventing the mischiefs that are apprehended. Your obe’t & very humble Servant.* Directed, To The Honorable Delegates of Pennsylvania in Congress. MEMORIAL OF MERCII’TS OF PHILADELPHIA, 1785. To his Excellency the Presidt and the H’ble the Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Memorial of the Merch’ts & Traders of the City of Philad'a by their Committee: Respectfully Sheweth, - That the Capture of an American Wessell by the Corsairs of Barbary gives this Committee Real & Just apprehensions of future depredation, on our trade from the same quarter. Upon an occasion so extreamly Important, it is the duty of this Committee to entreat that Councill will Represent to Congress the Necessity of endeavouring Speedily to conciliate the states of Bar- bary to us by presents, as it is practised by most of the Commercial Nations in Europe, or by treatys to be entered into with them as shall be deemed expedient by the Wisdom of that Body. We trust the Necessity of the Case will Induce Councill to take the earlyest apportunity of Laying this business before the United States in Congress, in such manner as shall appear to them most likely to produce the Remedy prayed for. Philad'a, 17, February, 1785. J. M. NESBITT, THO's FITZSIMONS, J. ROSS, -- MORDECAL LEWIS, JOHN NIXON, TENCH COXE, GEO. CLYMER, SAM'L HOWELL. JOHN WILCOCKS, ISAAC HAZLEHURST, CLEMENT BIDDLE:f Directed, - To His Excell’y the Presid’t & the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. - * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 361. # Ibid.
Page 412
412 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. REsolution of GENERAL ASSEMBLY.—Bound ARY, &c, 1785. State of Pennsylvania In General Assembly, 1785. Friday February 18, 1785. A. M. The report of the committee appointed to confer with the Com- missioners &c., read February 16, was read the second time and adopted as following (viz.) The committee appointed on the eleventh instant to confer with the Commissioners elected in pursuance of the third resolution of the General Assembly, adopted the fifteenth day of September 1783, to examine the navigation of the Susquehanna, and to ascertain as near as conveniently may be where the northern boundary of this. State will fall &c., beg leave to report. That the ascertaining of the Northern boundary of this State is rendered the more immediately necessary by the late purchase of terri- tory from the Indians, and the design of opening the Land Office for the Sale of lands bordering on the said boundary especially as your committee are well informed that the six nations of Indians have appointed one of their Chiefs to attend the Commissioners on the part of this State in running and marking the said boundary line as early as the season will admit. That on considering the objects of the said resolution of the fifteenth day of September 1783, your committee are highly sensible of their importance to the true interests of this State, and as they may be effected by the same Commissioners without any considerable additional expence, your committee are of opinion that they ought also to be carried into execution. That your committee have conferred with two of the said Com- missioners, and find that they are nearly prepared and propose to set out on the business about the first of April, but as greater accuracy seems now to be requisite in ascertaining the northern boundary, than was formerly in contemplation, a further supply of mathemati- cal instruments may be necessary. Your committee therefore offer the following resolutions. Resolved, That the Commissioners appointed in pursuance of the said third resolution of the General Assembly of this State, adopted on the fifteenth of September 1783, be directed to proceed as early as may be to execute the objects of their appointment so far as may be done without proceeding up the Susquehanna beyond the limits of this State, being careful to mark the northern boundary line thereof in such manner as that the same may be readily known and understood by the Surveyors and settlers, also by the Indians who may approach the same. Resolved, that the Supreme Executive Council be and they are hereby authorized and desired to cause to be paid out of the Treasury of this State to the said Commissioners such sum of money as to the said Council shall appear proper in addition to what the said Com-
End of Section 137. Continue to next section or 
Section 138
Page 413
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 413 missioners have heretofore received, for the purpose of purchasing instruments, provisions and other necessaries for the said service and also such sum and sums as the said Commissioners or any of them shall respectively require on account of their pay, not exceed- ing fifty pounds to each of the said Commissioners. Resolved, That the President and Supreme Executive Council of this State be desired to inclose the foregoing resolutions to the Gov. ernor of the State of New York and to request that Commissioners on the part of that State may be appointed to run and mark a tem- porary line between the States of Pennsylvania and New York, in conjunction with the Commissioners of this State; and that the Commissioners of this State be directed to meet at the north-east corner of this State, or Station point as heretofore settled, on the first day of April next. Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk of the General Assembly. PREs. DICKINson, To GovernoR of N. Y., 1785. Si In Council, February 19th, 1785. 1T, We inclose Resolutions passed yesterday by the General Assembly of this Commonwealth” and request that Commissioners on the part of your State, may be appointed to run & mark a temporary Line, according to the said Resolutions. The Commissioners on the part of this State are, I am Sir, your most obed. Servi. JOHN DICKINSON.f Directed His Excellency the Governor of the State of New York. DoRSEY PENTECOST TO PREs. DICKINson,-Bound.ARy, 1785. Si Philadelphia, Feby. 19th, 1785. Ir, - On applying to the Register of the Land Office under claims to Lands derived from the State of Virginia, I find many obstructions in carrying them through the different offices of this State, which I beg leave briefly to state to your Honorable Board. *See page, 412. # See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 863. 18+
Page 414
4ſſ PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. First,--The County Surveyor alleges that it is impossible for him to execute the different Surveys agreeable to the Instructions re- ceived from the Property Board, as it subjects him to tedious Litigations on many Surveys, too burdensome for him, and in a Great measure involves his reputation in the determinations thereof. Secondly,–On my producing to the Register Sundry receipts for Composition money paid to the Virg. Commissioners, appointed to settle the claims to unpatented Lands and grant Certificates, and orders of Surveys.-I was told that they could not be admitted in his Office, untill proof was made that the Gentleman who signed them was Bonifida Clerk to the said Board of Commissioners. He farther observed he was under difficulty to determine the authenticity of the Orders issued by the Commissioners, as he is not furnished with a Copy of their Commission, or appointment. He also men- tioned other difficulties for want of some of the Virginia Laws. Upon the whole I find myself (and others) greatly imbaras'd in procuring permanent Titles for our property, for which in the first instance we risqued the lives of ourselves and Families, and in the next paid our money to the State of Virginia, One other mischievous evil is daily growing, Involving us in deeper difficulties, and subjecting us to tedious and expensive Law Suits. I mean the Warrants constantly Issuing for Lands actually under Virginia Titles. And the Surveyors can find no difficulty in the Execution of them, because there is nothing to obstruct them, but the bare Ipse-dixit of the Person claiming under Virginia, for I take it for granted that producing a Certificate from the Com- missioners can have no weight under the Idea, conveyed from the above state of this matter. Your Excellency and Council being in my opinion the only power adequate to this very interesting Subject, and the willingness you have ever demonstrated to do Justice has induced me to adress you for remedy and if Possible to put us on a speedy Equitable, and certain footing to obtain Patants for those Lands that has cost us so dear. I know this is a Business that requires some attention and Inves- tigation, and consequently must give you trouble, and perhaps can- not at this stage of the bussiness be put on a footing altogether de- vested of difficulty and Imbarassment, but permit me to observe that the longer it is delayed the greater those Imbarasments will be. When your Excellency and Council reflects how sensibly I am (with hundreds of others) affected with a delay of this Bussiness, you will I hope pardone the liberty I have taken in this adress, especially when I assure your Excellency that nothing but the most pressing necessity, necessity and appearance of certain ruin could have produced an application of this kind, you will excuse me for entertaining Ideas not favourable of some who to our misfortune have influenced this business. If Council should be at a loss for information on this subject, I
Page 415
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 415 beg leave to recommend an Enquiry at Colos. Ritchee and Cannon now in this City, and Gentlemen on whose veracity the utmost Con- fidence may be placed. It is unnecessary as well as improper for me in this place to pre- tend a State different circumstances attendant on this business as your Honourable Board can be fully informed from Gentlemen Dis- pationate and disinterested. I have the Honor to be, with perfect Esteem your Exellencies, most obed. very Hmb Servt. DORSEY PENTECOST. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson Esquire. MINISTER OF Holland To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Translation. Sir, I have read with surprize in Humphrey's & Oswald's paper the paragraph,” of which a Copy is here inclosed. Altho' the Contents of it appear only to be ridiculous & contemptible, yet the Liberty which is there taken to use the name of a foreign Minister, in order to ive a sanction to the malicious inventions of some restless, meddling individuals, appears to me of such a nature, that I cannot think of passing it over in silence. I think myself obliged, Sir, to make representations to you on the subject, & to submit it to the con- sideration & Judgment of your Excellency, whether Equity and good policy do not require, that such an unwarrantable act be duly punished, and that government should take proper measures to shew how highly such an attempt provokes their indignation, that the author of this falshood may be exposed to public contempt, & the falsity of the account he gives, may be known every where. As I make no doubt but your Excellency will easily find out the proper means of attaining this end ; I put all my confidence in your best Judgment, while I have the honor to be with much Esteem & consideration, Sir, Your Excellency's most obedient & most humble servant, (Signed,) P. J. WAN BEREKEL.f Philadelphia, 20th Feb'y, 1785. Directed, His Excellency, Mr. President Dickinson. A true Translation from the Original. PETER. S. DUPONCEAU, Sworn Interpreter. * See page 408. f Col. Rec., XIV., p. 364.
End of Section 138. Continue to next section or 
Section 139
Page 416
416 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. CoMM'Rs on Boundary To PREs. DICKINSoN, 1785. Philada., 22nd Feb'y, 1785. Sir, In the prosecution of the Duties assigned us, as Commissioners appointed to run the northern Boundary of this State; We found it necessary to provide ourselves with a transit Instrument which we have bought, Price Thirty Pounds. Please therefore to Order a draught on the Treasurer for said sum; as also for Fifty Pounds to be charged to, Sir, Your most obedient & Humble Servant, JOS. MONTGOMERY.* Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., in Council. DAVID REDICK TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Philadelphia, 24th Feb'y, 1785. Honorable Gentlemen, I have lately received instructions from the Surveyor Gen'l to Survey in the County of Washington, on Virg. Titles, the dificul- ties which I find in complying with those instructions appears to me so great as to render a complience impracticable. A very short experience has convinced me, that to attend on the taking deposi- tions, &c., considering the difficulty of geting witnesses togather, before a justice or Majistrate, as well from their being often wide scatered, as from the Majistrate often residing far from the place of Action, makes it in my humble oppinion an almost insurmountable part of my duty; not only so, but if it could be even conveniently done, it will greatly involve me in mischief, in as much as the un- fortunate Claimants, will often be disposed to gather as much trash as may lay fals Signs of guilt on me; this will happen the more certainly in as much as many people are by no means capable of knowing, when my duty has been faithfully performed, and I should think it hard to be brought frequently to Philadelphia to Account for my Conduct, on the complaint of an individual when many cases might be such as to make it very difficult to me, to know how to act; and still much more difficult to convince government as to my reasons for so doing; when length of time & multiplicity of busi- ness might not leave a single mark of the transaction on my mind. Another difficulty, of Executing Surveys, at the time men- * Col. Rec., XIV. p. 364.
Page 417
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 417 tioned in the public notice to be given agreeable to those instruc- tions, the changes of seasons, as well as other unavoidable interven- ing accidents will often prevent its being punctually complied with; and it is Easey to see that one single accident of this sort, will naturally confuse after business; this observation alone I hope will convince your Honorable Board, that my business cannot at all be carried on regularly, which alone gives life & spring to business, unless the whole surveying of a Township or the like could be done togather as it were, which cannot be, as few of the inhabitants of the same district will be prepared at the same time with that of some of their neighbours. Another thing Honorable gentlemen would be of especial use to the inhabitants of Washington County that is, to know what kind of Virg" Titles are deemed legal and valid, for many of the people if they only knew their claim to be ill founded, would immediately apply to the office of this State Else time may put it out of their power on the same favorable Term as are held out at present to secure their lands. Honorable Gentlemen I hope to meet with your indulgence for troubling your Board with so tedious a letter, if you will believe that a real regard to the good of public business, & my own future fame are Reasons which has prompted me. I am, Honorable Gent., your most obt. Humble Servt., Directed, DAVID REDICK. His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., Prest, and the Supreme Executive Council, of Pennsylvania. SEC'Y CHAs. THOMSON TO PREs. OF COUNCIL, 1785. (Circular.) New York, 26th February, 1785. Sir Attempts having been made in the settlement of accounts to defraud the public by means of Certificates and some of them being discovered, The United States in Congress assembled have passed the resolutions, which I have the honor to enclose. That these resolutions may have the desired effect, permit me to request that you would be pleased to give orders for having them printed without delay in the News-papers of your State. With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency's * * most obedient and - most humble Servt., Directed, CHA. THOMSON. His Excellency, the President of Pennsylvania.
End of Section 139. Continue to next section or 
Section 140
Page 418
418 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. W.M. MACLAY TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Sunbury, 26th Feb'y., 1785. Sir, The inclosed Letter came to my hands a few days ago, open as you now receive it. I have since seen David Price, who received it from the Indians, and brought it into the County. He says the Indians are in perfect good humour, but wish much for the running of the Line between us and them, as was agreed at the Treaty in October last: By Price's account they are well informed of the general direction and place of beginning the Line; altho' it is by no means clearly expressed in their Letter. As the Letter came into my hands open, and is of a publick nature, I thought it best to forward it to you, that Government might be informed of the Contents. And am, with the greatest respect, Sir, your most obedient & most humble servant, W.M. MACLAY. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President, &c., of the State of Pennsylvania. PRES. DICKINSON TO MERCHANTs of PHILADELPHIA, 1785. In Council, Febuary 26, 1785. Gentlemen, On the Receipt of your Memorial of the 17th inst.,” we that Day wrote to our Delegates inclosing a Copy thereof, and requesting them immediately to prosecute the Business in Congress. We hope their Exertions will produce the desired Effect, and it will afford us a * satisfaction, if the Event is as successful as you wish it to be. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem, Gentlemen, your most obedient and very humble servant, JOHN DICKINSON.f Directed, The Merchants and Traders, of the City of Philadelphia. * See page 41 # Col. Rec, XIV, p. 369.
End of Section 140. Continue to next section or 
Section 141
Page 419
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 419 SEc'Y ARMSTRONG. To County LIEUTENANTs, 1785. Circular. Secretary’s Office, Philade, 28th Febº, 1785. To such of the Licutenants of Counties as have not reported to Council the divisions of their respective Counties into Batt” districts &c. Sir, Council have long since expected from you a report of “the “several Battalion districts into which the County of “has been divided, the names of the townships composing each, & the probable efficient force of the whole.” Orders for this purpose were issued as early as the 9th of Dec. 1783, and Council are much at a loss to account for so great a delay in your complying with them, I have it now in command to report their directions on this Subject & am Sir, with much respect Yours, &c. J. ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. Sec'y ARMSTRONG To SMITH & KELLY, 1785. Si Secretary’s Office, 28th Feb., 1785. Ir, Under the directions of Council, I wrote you some time since, (on the 3d of Sept. 1784,) informing you, that it was the opinion of Council that your appointment as a Justice of the peace for Mountjoy township, was void in itself, being founded upon an election held contrary to law, & directing you to resign your commission without further delay. It is however with some degree of astonishment that they have seen this notice of their wishes treated with so disrespectful a silence, and with still more surprize have they heard, that in direct oppo- sition to them, you have continued to exercise the duties of an appointment thus illegally obtained. It is the object of this letter therefore to require you within ten days from the date hereof, or as early thereafter as possible to transmit your resignation of the appointm' aff" to this office, and thus spare Council the necessity of issuing a public supersedeas. I am &c. J. ARMSTRONG.” (A copy of this letter to be sent to Mr W. Smith, & W* Kelly respectively.) * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 454.
Page 420
420 PENNYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. JAMES PEARSON TO CouncIL, 1785. To the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council, Gentlemen, - The Gardner employ'd to plant the trees in the State house yard is directed by Mr Waughan to procure a number for the purpose from different places, M' Reese requests a small sum of money to pay his expences and those of a man to assist him in diging them, also to pay for their carriage, and were necessary for the trees. The forty pounds for which I recº an order is Expended in the work already done. Therefore request the Honble Council will be pleased to order me such a sum as will be sufficient for the purposes aforesaid, and also to provide a number of Stakes to secure the trees when planted. I cannot estimate with Certainty what those expences may amount to, but suppose a sum equal to the former order will be sufficient. - Am your h’ble Serv'. JAMES PEARSON.” Philade, Feb 28th, 1785. Directed, Honorable John Dickinson, President of Council. RESOLUTION OF Assembly, 1785. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly. Thursday, March 3, 1785, A. M. On motion, Ordered, that the committee appointed on the account of James Searle, Esquire, be instructed to confer with the Supreme Executive Council touching the said accounts. Extract from the Minutes. J. SHALLUS, Ass’t Clerk, of the General Assembly. THOMAS PROCTER TO PREs. DICKINson.—LANDs, 1785. Sir, It has been suggested by the Honble the Council that certain lands entered by me in the land office, may be within the late purchase made from the Indians. In order to satisfy any objections on that head, I pledge my honor to the firm belief y' the twenty-one Tracts herewith returned to Council; and said be on the waters of * See Register of Penn'a, Vol. I. p. 416, for vote of thanks to Col. George Morgan, of Morganza for a present of 100 Elm trees for the State- house yard, Ap. 22, 1785, also, Col. Rec. Vol. XIV., p. 368.
End of Section 141. Continue to next section or 
Section 142
Page 421
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 421 Muncey, Tawandy & Lacoming, are intirely in the old purchase so called, and should it appear hereafter contrary to this certificate, I rescind all right of Claim thereto, but what shall be done by me in the necessary form. This be pleased to communicate to the Honour- able Council and the honor done me shall be duly acknowledged by your Excellency's most humble Servant. THOMAS PROCTER. Land office, March 3° 1785. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire. WM. BUTLER To BRIG. GEN. John ARMSTRONG, 1785. S Pittsburgh, 10th March, 1785. Ir, I was Honour" with yours of the 34 Feb, together with Mr. Brown' proposals for a printing office & have every reason to believe the subscriptions in this Country will answer his expecktations. I have got but five signers yet, oweing to my late sickness, and am now only just able to sit up but recovering fast & shall use every endea- vour to forward Mr. Brown's interest. The gentlemen of the Law, intends exerting themselves at the different corts in Apriel; which will be the only places to get a numerous subscription.* Sir, will you be so obligeing as to apply to Council in my behalf & obtain their order to the surveyor gen'l Direckting him to give an order to the surveyor of the districkt to survay my lott over the Alligany River for the acomodation of my ferry agreeable to the ackt of assembly. Capt Ja’ Aharra will doe the business for me if you will procure him the order he will also pay anny just Due as may be made requisite. I Presume Council has been mad acquainted with the villiny of the People of this Country, the are flocking from all Quarters, settling & taking up not only the United States lands but also this States, many Hundreds has crost the Rivers & are dayly going many with their family's, the Wisdom of Council I hope will Provide against so gross & growing an Evil. Excuse heast, & believe me to bee, yours sincerely, Directed, Wm. BUTLER. John Armstrong, Jun'r, Esq’r, Secretary to the honble the Council, State of Penn”, Philadelphia. Hon" by Capt Aharra. * The Gazette was commenced about this year or the next, said to be the first paper west of the mountains. Reg. of Penna, Vol. I, p. 181.
End of Section 142. Continue to next section or 
Section 143
Page 422
422 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Gov. CLINTON, of N. Y., To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. New York, 11th March, 1785. Sir, Previous to my receipt of your Excellency's Letter of the 19th February,” inclosing Resolutions of your General Assembly, a Bill had originated in our Legislature for running and marking the juris- diction Line between this State and Pennsylvania, which has since passed into a Law, and I have now the Honor to inclose you a Copy of it. Your Excellency will perceive that instead of a temporary Line between the two States, which appears to be the object of your Assembly, our Law provides for the establishment of a permanent Line; and I flatter myself, that upon a reconsideration of the matter, your Legislature will concur in the Idea. I presume it will be ad- mitted if a temporary Line only was to run, it should be done with accuracy to prevent the obvious inconveniencies which the Borderers would be subject to as the Settlements advance on either side; and the consequent broils which the two States might be involved in by an incorrect Line in the first Instance, and in this Case there can be but little additional expence incurred in rendering it perfect and permanent. By the Act, you will observe, it is left with our Council to appoint Commisssioners for this Service on the part of this State, which shall be done, and their Names transmitted to your Excellency, and every other necessary Arrangement made on our part for carrying the business into effect, so soon as I shall be informed of the Concurrence of your State.f I have the Honor to be, with the highest Respect, your Excellency's most Obed Serv", GEO. CLINTON. His Excellency Governor Dickinson. ACT OF NEW YoFK RELATIVE To Boundary, 1785. An Act for running out and marking the Jurisdiction Line between this State and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.” Whereas, the Honorable Cadwallader Colden, Esquire, Lieutenant Governor of the late Province, now State, of New York, with the Advise of the then Council, did, on the Eighth day of November, One thousand Seven hundred and Seventy-four, Nominate and Ap- point Samuel Holland, Esquire, to proceed in Conjunction with M* * See page 413. # See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 380.
Page 423
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 423 David Rittenhouse, brsuch other Person as might be Appointed on the part of Pennsylvania, to fix the beginning of the Forty-third Degree of North Latitude, on the Mohawk or Western Branch of Delaware, and to proceed Westward as far as the Season would per- mit, along the Beginning of the said Degree, which is the Boundary between this State and the State of Pennsylvania. And whereas, the Honorable John Penn, Esquire, late Governor of the late Province, now Commonwealth, of Pennsylvania, did, on the Twenty-fourth day of October, in the Year aforesaid, Nominate and Appoint the said David Rittenhouse to proceed on the like Ser- vice, in Conjunction with the said Samuel Holland, or such other Person as should be Appointed on the part of the then Province, now State, of New York. And whereas, the said Samuel Holland and David Rittenhouse, did, in pursuance of their said respective Appointments, proceed on the said Business, and made a Return thereof, under their Hands, bearing Date at Philadelphia, the fourteenth day of December, in the same Year, by which Return it appears that the said Commissioners Ascertained and fixed the Beginning of the Forty-third Degree of North Latitude, on the Mohawk or Western Branch of Delaware, and there, in a small Island, planted a Stone, with the Letters {. cut on one side, and on the Top, LAT. 42° y AR. 4° 20', thence due West on the West side of Delaware River, then Collected a Heap of Stones at High Water Mark; and in the said West Line, four Perches distant, planted another Stone with the Letters { ressiº * ! cut on the south side, and y on the Top, LAT. 42° WAR. 4° 20', and thence due West Eighteen Perches marked an Ash Tree; and that the Rigour of the Season prevented them from proceeding further, as by the Report of the said Commissioners filed,with a Map annexed thereto, and filed of Record in the Secretaries Office of this State, will more fully Appear. And whereas, it is necessary that said Line should be run out— Marked and Ascertained, Therefore be it enacted by the People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly, and it is hereby enacted by the Authority of the same, That the Surveyor General of this State be, and he is hereby, Appointed and Authorized on the part of this State, to meet such Person or Persons, who, in like Manner may be Appointed and Authorized on the Part of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, at such Time or Times, Place or Places, as shall be agreed upon and determined by the Persons Administering the Gov- ernments of this State for the time being, and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, then and there to run out, mark and Ascertain the said Line of Jurisdiction between this State and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, beginning at the Place so fixed and Ascertained by the said Commissioners as above mentioned, on the Mohawk or Western
Page 424
424 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Branch of Delaware, at the beginning of the Forty-third Degree of North Latitude, and from thence to proceed Westward along the beginning of the said Forty-third Degree of North Latitude as far as this State and the said Commonwealth of Pennsylvania border on each other. And be it enacted by the Authority aforesaid, That the Surveyor General of this State be, and he is hereby, Authorized and impow- ered to employ a Surveyor or Surveyors, Chainbearers, and such and so many other Persons as may be found Necessary to perform the Executive part in running, marking, and Ascertaining the said Line in conjunction with such Person or Persons as may be Appointed on the part of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for that purpose; And such Line so Agreed upon, Approved of and Consented to by the said Surveyor General of this State and such Person or Persons as shall be Appointed by, and on the part of, the Commonwealth of Penhsylvania, being reported to the Persons Administering the Government of this State and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, for the Time being, and Ratified and Confirmed by the Legislature of this State and the Legisature of the Commonwealth of Pennsyl- vania, shall at all Times hereafter, be the Line of Jurisdiction be- tween this State and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. And be it enacted by the Authority aforesaid, That the said Surveyor General be, and he is hereby, Authorized from time to time to draw upon the Treasurer of this State for such Sums of Money as he shall Judge Necessary for defraying the Expences of running out, marking and Ascertaining the said Jurisdiction Line on the part of this State, not exceeding in the whole, the Sum of One Thousand Pounds, for which he is to be accountable.* CIRCULAR OF CONGRESS ON CLAIMS, 1785. (Circular.) Si Secretary's Office, March 18°, 1785. 1r, Congress being impressed with the Necessity of limiting a time for all persons having unliquidated Claims against the United States to bring in such Claims, as well for the purpose of ascertaining with the utmost expedition the amount of the National debt, as to prevent or detect the attempts that are making to defraud the public, have passed the resolution which I have the honor to enclose. As it is of importance to the inhabitants of your State, who have just Claims against the United States, to be informed of this as speedily as possible, I trust your Excellency will excuse the liberty I take in addressing this resolution to you and requesting that you will be pleased to give the Necessary Orders for making it known * See Vol. IV., pp. 562, 576, 578.
Page 425
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 425 to all concerned, by causing it to be printed and dispersed through the different Counties and districts of your State, or in such other way as you shall judge best. With great respect, I have the honor to be Your Excellency's most Obedient and most humble Serv", CHA. THOMSON." His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania. s OFFICERS OF PENNs'A RECOMMENDING WM. IRVINE As LAND AGENT, 1785. Philadelphia, March 21st, 1785. Sir, We the Subscribers, a Committee chosen by the officers of the late Pennsy" line, beg leave to inform the Supreme Executive Council, that there is now before the Honorable House of Assembly, a Bill for directing the mode of distributing the Donation landst granted to the late officers & Soldiers of said line, in which the appointment of an Agent to see justice done to the State, as well as to the Individuals, is left in your honorable Board. We therefore pray that Council will be pleased to appoint William Irvine, Esqr.,f to that office, if the Bill passes in its present State, as he is a Gentleman well acquainted with the land appropriated for that purpose, and who is, we humbly conceive, worthy your Confidence, as well as that of your most humble Servants, A St CLAIR, T. B. BOWEN, SAM NICHOLAS, W. MACPHERSON, MAT. McCONNELL, RICHA FULLERTON. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., President of the Supreme Executive Council. Indorsed, March 21, 1785. From the Committee (Pº Line,) praying the appointment of Gen. Irvine, as Agent under the late law for Dona- tion Lands. * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 385. - † He was appointed March 26. Col. Rec., XIV., p. 386, 454, and his instruction on page 427 of this Wol.
End of Section 143. Continue to next section or 
Section 144
Page 426
426 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. JAMES MILLIGAN, C. T., To PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. Comptroller's Office, March 24th, 1785. Sir, - In pursuance of the Resolutions of Congresss of the 23d February last, empowering me to nominate the Commissioners therein men- tioned, I do myself the honor to nominate John Story, Esquire as an additional Commissioner for Settling the Accounts between the State of Pennsylvania and the United States and for Liquidating and settling the claims of the Citizens of that State against the United States, &c., according to the meaning and intention of the Act of Congress of the 20th of February, 1782. I think it necessary to observe to your Excellency that this Gentleman is a native of the State of Massachusetts, and was for some years employed in public Accounts in the Office of Major General Green, when Quarter Master General. He is reccommen- ded to me as a man of Strict integrity, Industry and knowledge of Accounts. I hope he may be acceptable, and that his Conduct may be such as to deserve the approbation of all honest men, and corres- pond with the Character I have received. I have the honor to be with great respect, Sir, t your Excellency's most Obedient Hum. Servant,” JAS. MILLIGAN, Comp’tr of the Treas'y. Directed, ~ To His Excellency, the President of State of Pennsylvania. JAMES PEARSON TO PREs. DICKINsoN, ON STATE House, 1785. To the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council. Gentlemen, The expences incur'd by paving and Graveling at the front of the State House, Obliged me to expend the money drawn for other repairs of the buildings and involved me in debts for part of the bricks, hauling and labour, also for sundry materials for the repairs —those balances the persons are desirous of having paid. Therefore request the Hon’ble Council will please to order the * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., page 880, 800.
End of Section 144. Continue to next section or 
Section 145
Page 427
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 427 - sum of Three hundred pounds to pay the debts already contracted and enable me to proceed in the repairs of the buildings &c., as Order'd by the Hon'ble Assembly. And Oblige yours JAMES PEARSON. March 25th, 1785. INSTRUCTIONS TO GEN'L WM. IRVINE As LAND AGENT, 1785. In Council, March 26th, 1785. Sir, By Virtue of the Authority vested in us by the Act of Assembly “for directing the Mode of distributing the Donation Lands, promised to the troops of this Commonwealth.” We have appoint- ed you Agent to perform the Duties of this office, it will be neces- sary that with all possible Dispatch & accuracy, you explore the Country to be laid off agreeable to Directions of that Act,” noting the quality of the land in the several parts thereof, the hills, moun. tains, waters, creeks, marshes, uplands, bottomlands, &c., and such other occurences as may deserve notice with their situation, & dis- tance, but particularly the parts of the land which you may deem unfit for cultivation, &c.; and from time to time transmitting us your Remarks, notes and Description of the Country. I am, with the greatest Esteem, Sir, your most obedient humble Servt., JOHN DICKINSON.* Directed, The Honorable General William Irvine. º - PREs. DICKINSON TO SPEAKER OF ASSEMBLY, 1785. Sir, Mr. Millegan Comptroller of the Treasury of the United States, has this Day notified to Council, that in pursuance of an Act of Congress of the 23rd of last Month, he has appointed John Story, Esquire, an additional Commissioner for settling accounts within this * See page 425, also Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 386.
Page 428
428 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. State. The appointment meets the approbation of Council, if approved by the Legislature. I am, with the greatest Esteem, Sir, your most obedient humble Servi., - JOHN DICKINSON. March 26th, 1785. - Directed, The Honorable the Speaker. REv’d DR. Ewing To PREs. DICKINSON.—RESIGNATION, 1785. Philada., 26th Mar., 1785. Honble Sir, When I last had the Honour of waiting on your Excellency in Company with 'Mr. Hutchins; I informed you that it would not be necessary for both Mr. Rittenhouse and myself to be employed in running the western boundary of the State in conjunction with the Virginia Commissioners in the ensuing summer. I mentioned farther y' my connection with the university, & my own church would require my continuance in Philadelphia, and that therefore I should no longer be considered as holding the Commission with which the Council had been pleased to honour me in the preceding year. Lest this might have escaped your memory in the Multipli- city of public Business, I have taken the Liberty of requesting Y' Excellency to give this information to Council, and am, Sir, with the greatest Respect, your Excellency's most obdt. and very Humble Servant, JOHN EWING." * Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President of the State of Philadelphia. PREs. DICKINSON TO SPEAKER OF Assembly, 1785. Sir, The General Assembly on the second of December, 1783, Resolved, that a sum not exceeding six hundred Pounds should be appropriate for the purpose of enabling Council to make public Demonstrations * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 454.
End of Section 145. Continue to next section or 
Section 146
Page 429
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 429 of Joy upon the definitive Treaty of Peace between the United States, and Great Britain.* The inclosed accounts exceed that Estimate, & the Demands for payment are very pressing, as will appear from the Letter herewith transmitted; But Council are unwilling to draw orders upon the Treasury for more than the sum appropriated, without the Consent of the Legislature. I am with much Esteem Sir, your most obedient, & very humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON. March 20th, 1785. Directed, The Honourable, The Speaker of General Assembly. MICHAEL HUFFNAGLE TO GEN'L ARMSTRONG, 1785. Dear Sir, I received yours a few days ago, with Mr. Brown's papers in- closed, and shall do every thing in my power to get Subscribers. I wish you to mention to His Excellency, the President and Council that having obtained Judgment against Conrad Winemiller at the Suit of the Common Wealth on four Bonds due to Ross & Thompson; I gave him notice of the same upon which he called on me, as the Bonds where given for Lands sold to him; I re- quested to see his Bill of sale, & found by it, that the Lands he purchased where Located in the Name of John Dunn & Robert Mitchell; & by my return to Council you will find that 150 acres were sold to Abdel M. Clure, being part of the Lands Located in the Name of John Dunn. I give this notice that no Deed may issue for the same. - I also wish you to mention that a great number of people are settling on the Lands, over the Allegany River, within the Bounds of this State; as soon as I heard of it, I immediately issued a Warrant directed to the Sheriff to apprehend such as he could get, & in case of resistance, to call on the Commandant at this post, who promised me to give such assistance as the Sheriff might stand in need of; as the Assembly is now sitting, something ought to be done immediately, otherwise in a short time the Lands will be settled, notwithstanding all I can do, or order to be done. I have made inquiry agreeable to order of Council, respecting the Claim of Major Craig, & find that the Commanding Officer then, had orders from General Gage to demolish the Works and sell the Ruins of the Garrison, which he did, & that Ross & Thompson be- came the purchasers. I imagine that the best Testimony that can be had will be General St. Clair & General Hand. I think that V * See page 149. oi, X.—19 -
Page 430
430 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. General St. Clair mentioned to me that they were sold by the con- sent of Mr. Penn, & General Hand was the person who sold them, but Q", whether the Crown had not a right to demolish any of their works & sell the Ruins at that time in any part of her American plantation; this I leave to better Judges. I wish you also to in- form me by the first opportunity, whether debts due to the Common- wealth by Confiscation will come under the same. Law as debts Between private persons before January, seventy-seven, as all the debts due to Ross, are before that period. I wish Mr. Trimble, by the first opportunity, to send me the laws of the two last sittings of Assembly. I have the Honor to be Your very H’ble Serv't, MICH. HUFFNAGLE. Genl. Armstrong, March 11th, 1785, Pittsburgh. LT. Col. Josiah HARMAR TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. Si Fort McIntosh, April 2nd, 1785, Ir i have the honor to enclose to your Excellency and the Honor- able Council, a monthly return of the Pennsylvania Troops in the Service of the United States, dated the first instant. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem and respect, your Excellencys & The Honorable Councils, most h’ble. & obed. Servt. JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Comd. 1st Amn. Regt. Directed, - His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., president & The Honora- ble The Supreme Executive Council Pennsylvania.
Page 431
: :i

MonTELY RETURN OF THE PENNSYLVANIA TR00Ps IN THE SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES, 1785. Monthly Return of the Pennsylvania Troops in the Service of the United States. Commanded by Josiah Harmar, Esqr., Lieut. Colonel commandant, Fort McIntosh April 1st, 1785. Officers present fit for duty. - wantºgto Field. coma. | staff. Non º: Rank and File. complete. is lºg |E|33 ||#####2 Es - Infantry 3 slº ºf , alºl. *3:5 #####3 #5 - 2.5:13:3: 35 | |-|E|2|= ##|5|#º 5 g g = 2 * Companies, #3|E|3: 23 g|2|3| - - - - - - ºf # =|3|E|##| | §3 ºf £3 s. 33.33% #3, ## § 5313|33 || |z|E|3:######|g|E|3 ºf £5:5 =-|--|--|-- %|z|2 & 5 F-5 H. Z 55F.55 = 2a – 1 1|1|1|1|| Capt. Walter Finney's, 1 1. 3 1. 42 2 6 55 1 14 Capt. David Zeigler's, 1| 1 4|| 2 47| 2 7 62 | 8 Capt. Wm. McCurdys, 1|1|1} 2 2. 46 3.8 7 63 2 5. Total, Tºſº. TTTTTTTTTE. 135||7|320 1so 2 127 Comºdºxon-Commºd offi’ W"tº to - *: *:::::"..." -- |g: º Remarks. : º # 5 Lieuteuant Herbert issuspended from his command until orders from #121.31.3/4 35 3| < |Congress or the War Office—Ensign Armstrong, Ensign McDowell, one Capt. Douglass's com-leg # #TE |; * | * * ãº # Serjeant & one Corporal, with the twenty privates are on command pany of Artillery' 3|3|#13 313||3|_3 = 3 down the Ohio river about 80 miles from hence, with orders to drive of E|3:15:15 5 # # # E - 5 Sundry persons who have presumed to settle on the Lands of the United 3|##333/5:32 #| : States, contrary to the orders of Congress—no Chaplain is as yetap- - HF-2. pointed.—Ensign Denny acts as adjutant pro tem. The three sick º fit for duty, 1| 1 ; 3. 8] 3 2 * ‘. 1 absent were left on the march to Fort Pitt—one private Deserted since ick present, 1 last return. - s T.I., ——— - JOS, HARMAR, Total, 1 118, 8 & 3, 285-49 1, Lt. Col. Comd, 1st. Amn. Regt.
This page contains an image.
Page 432
432 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIWks 1785. MoNs. DE MARBoIs To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1785. A Philadelphie le 4 Avril 1785. Monsieur, Je suis sur le point de me rendre à New York pour résider près du Congrès. Je proposerai à cette assemblée les mesures à prendre pour que le service du Consulat de Philadelphie ne soit pas inter- rompu par mon absence, et j'aurai l'honneur d'informer Votre Ex- cellence de ce qui aura été arrêté. Permettez qu'en prenant congé de vous, Monsieur, et du Conseil Suprême Exécutif de Pensylvanie, j'exprime ma reconnoissance de l'appui que j'en ai reçu dans l'exercise de mes fonctions consulaires. Je m'empresse aussi à reconnoître les avantages qui en ont resulté pour le Commerce entre le Royaume et l'Etat de Pensylvanie et pour le maintien de l'ordre parmi les Navigateurs français; l'attache- ment dont vous faites profession aux principes de notre alliance et les preuves frequentes que vous m'en avéz donnés ne me permettent pas de douter que Votre Excellence ne fasse tout ce qui sera en son pouvoir pour consolider l'union des deux Nations en continuant à accorder sa protection à un commerce réciproquement utile. Je suis avec respect, Monsieur, de Votre Excellence, le très humble et très obéissant serviteur, DE MARBOIS. Son Excellence Monsieur le Président de l'Etat de Pensylvanie. TIMoTIIY TAYLoR To PREs. DICKINsoN, oN CASE oF VICKERS, 1785. Newtown, April 5th, 1785. Sir, I have seen Collonal Wall since I was with Council, he says he Cannot attend 'till some time next week when he means to attend, (if health Permits). I should be glad that Council would Postpone their Determination on the affair of Solomon Vickers* till that time I thought it might be of some use for Council to know the time s" Vickers was apprehended, as it was not mentioned in our Petition ; the enclosed, will Determine as he was taken the Day of the Date of sº Precept, and if there is a Reward to be given I contend that n0 Person bas so good a Right as myself as I Look upon myself to be the Principal means of his being apprehended and Likewise of con- fineing his Brother Jessee who made the first Discovery. I am with sincere Respect yours & the Publicks well wisher, Directed, TIMOTHY TAYLOR. To The Honorable John Dickinson, Esquire, Philadelphia. * See Vol. IX., p. 501, 614, 615.
End of Section 146. Continue to next section or 
Section 147
Page 433
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 433 º Bucks, ss. Subpoena Elizabeth Kieth and Catherine Wampelt, to appear Forthwith before me at Newtown, to give Evidence [L. S.] in Behalf of the State against Soloman Wickers now con- fin'd in goal on Suspition of Commiting a misdemeanour in Break- ing into the house of the said Elizabeth Kieth on the night of the 18th of July last, given under my hand and seal, August 3d, 1782. TIMOTHY TAYLOR.” Directed, To the Constable of Newtown. SECRETARY OF FoREIGN AFFAIRs To PREs. DICKINSoN,- AMER. BISHOP, 1785. (Circular.) - Office for foreign Affairs, 31st March, 1785. Sir, . I have the Honor of transmitting to your Excellency a Copy of a Letter from Mr. Adams to the President of Congress, of the 22d April, 1784, and of a Letter to Mr. Adams from Mr. de St Saphorin of the 21st April, 1784, together with a Copy of the Paper referred to in the latter. Your Excellency will perceive from these Papers, the Bishops of Denmark will confer holy Orders on American Candidates, without any Tests which (like those insisted on in England) would be improper for Americans to comply with. I have the Honor to be with great Respect your Excellency's Most obed’t & very h’ble Serv't, JOHN JAY.f Directed, To His Excellency The Governor of Pennsylvania. No. 1. HoN. John ADAMS To PRESIDENT OF CONGREss, 1784. (Copy.) The Hague, April 22d, 1784. Sir, I received sometime since a Letter from an American Gentleman now in London, a Candidate for Orders, desiring to know, if Ameri- can Candidates might have Orders from Protestant Bishops on the Continent, and complaining that he had been refused by the Bishop * See Vol. IX., p. 501. - f See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 399.
Page 434
º 43.4 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. of London and the Arch-Bishop of Canturbury, unless he would take the Oaths of Allegiance, &c'.” Meeting soon afterwards the Danish Minister, I had the Curiosity to inquire of him, whether Ordination might be had in Denmark. He answered me that he knew not, but would soon inform himself. I heard no more of it untill to Day, when the Secretary of his Embassy Mr. De Rosenkrantz, made me a Visit, and delivered me the Papers, Copies of which are enclosed. Thus it seems that what I meant as current Conversation only, has been made the Subject of Deliberation of the Government of Denmark, and their Faculty of Theology, which makes it necessary for me to transmit it to Congress. I am happy to find the Decision so liberal. - I have the Honor to be, &c., (Signed,) JOHN ADAMS. Directed, To His Excellency Thomas Mifflin, Esq’r, Preside of Congres. - º No. 2. MR. DE ST. SAPHORIN To HoN. John ADAMs, 1785. Translation. Mr. de St Saphorin has the honor to communicate to Mr. Adams the answer he has received from His Excellency the Count de Rosencrone, Privy Councellor and Secretary of State for foreign affairs of His Danish Majesty, relative to what Mr. Adams desired to know. He shall be happy if this answer should be agreeable to him, as well as to his superiors, and useful to his fellow Citizens. He has the honor to assure him of his respect. (Signed,) DE ST. SAPHOREN. Hague, 21st April, 1784. The preceding faithfully translated from the Original, by BEN. WALKER. No. 3. Translation. Copy of an Extract of a Letter from His Excellency the Count de Rosencrone Privy Counsellor of His Majesty the King of Denmark, to Mr. de S Saphorin Envoy Extraordinary from His Majesty to the States General. Sir, The opinion of the Theological Faculty having been taken on the question made to your Excellency by Mr. Adams, If the American * Afterwards Bishop White who, with Bishop Provost, was consecrated in England, Feb. 4, 1787. See account of it in Reg. of Penn'a, Vol. III., p 405. See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 399, 584.
End of Section 147. Continue to next section or 
Section 148
Page 435
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 435 Ministers of the Church of England can be consecrated here by a Bishop of the Danish Church 7 I am ordered by the King to autho- rize you to answer, that such an act can take place according to the Danish Rites, but for the convenience of the Americans who are supposed not to know the Danish language, the Latin language will be made use of on the occasion,-for the rest, nothing will be ex- acted from the Candidates, but a profession conformable to the articles of the English Church, omitting the Oath called Test, which prevents their being Ordained by the English Bishops. The preceding translated faithfully from the original, by BEN. WALKER. PREs. DICKINsoN To Gov. CLINTON, of N. Y., 1785. In Council, April 6*, 1785. Sir Your Letter of the 11" of last Month,” with the Inclosure, we immediately communicated to the General Assembly of this Com- monwealth, and now have the Honor of transmitting the Copy of an Act passed by them for ascertaining our common Boundary. David Rittenhouse & Andrew Porter, Esquires, are appointed by us Commissioners on the part of this State. I am, with great Regard, Sir, your most obed servº, - JOHN DICKINSON. His Excellency Govt Clinton. PREs. DICKINSON TO MINISTER OF UNITED NETHERLANDS, *- 1785. Si In Council, April 6", 1785. 1r Your late journey to New York prevented our acknowledging sooner the Receipt of your Letter of the 20" of February last :f And we now flatter ourselves that the steps that have been taken, will prevent any further uneasiness upon the affair. I have the Honor to be, with the sincerest Esteem, Sir, your most obed, hble. servº, JOHN DICKINSON.f The Minister of the United Netherlands. * See page 422. # See page 415. f Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 399
End of Section 148. Continue to next section or 
Section 149
Page 436
- 436 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. RETURN OF PUBLIC STOREs IN County of WASHINGTON, t 1785. A Return of the publick Stores in the County of Washington. Viz. 50 Musquets, 40 Pouches, 29 Coats, 3 Waistcoats, 23 Shirts, 10 pair Shoes, 7 Blankets, 29 Hatts, 26 pair Overalls, 67 Alba lead. I do Certify that the above Return is Just. Given under my hand this 7th day of April, 1785. JAM: MARSHAL, Lieu' W. Co'y. RETURN OF OFFICERS OF MILITIA IN COUNTY OF WASHING- TON, 1785. A Return of Officers for Such Districts as Neglected or Refused to Elect, at the last General Election for Officers in the County of Washington, Viz.: 3* Battalion— Robert Park, Captain, No. 2, David Gault, Lieu", Elected 86 privates. Alexander Ralston, Ensign, William Scott, Captain, No. 8 Samuel Buchanon, Lieut Nominated. } 82 privates. John Scott, Jun', Ensign. - 4th Battalion— William M’Farlane, Cap', N° 2 James Tucker, Lieutenant, Nominated. }. 75 Do. Caleb Baldwin, Ensign. I do Certify that the above is a true return. JAM: MARSHAL, L. W. Co'y. April 7", 1785.
End of Section 149. Continue to next section or 
Section 150
Page 437
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 437 ELECTION OF DELEGATES TO CONGRESS, 1785. State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly, Tuesday, November 16th, 1784.—A. M. Agreeably to the order of the Day, the House proceeded to the election of Delegates to represent this State in the Congress of the United States for the ensuing year, and the ballots being taken, it appeared that the Honorable Joseph Gardner, and William Henry, (of Lancaster,) were duly elected. Saturday, February 19th, 1785.-A. M. Agreeably to the order of the day, the House proceeded to the election of a Delegate, &c., when the Honorable David Jackson was duly elected. Tuesday, April 7th, 1785.-A. M. Agreeably to the order of the day, the House proceeded to the election of two Delegates, &c., when the Honorable Charles Pettit and James Wilson were duly elected. Extract from the Minutes. SAM’L BRYAN, Clerk of the General. F. B. Bowen & E. BEATTY, AGENTs, To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Si Philadelphia, April 8th, 1785. Ir, - We beg leave to report to your Excellency in Council, that we have proceeded to the different parts of the State, as directed by your honorable Board, for the purpose of distributing to the Officers & Soldiers of the late Pennsylvania Line their certificates of Final Settlement; that we have continued to issue them in this City, since our return in Decem' last, and that we have so nearly com- pleted that business, as to be ready to deposit the remaining Certifi- cates, (together with our books and vouchers,) as the Supreme Ex- ecutive may direct, agreeable to Resolve of Congress, of Nov'r 3d, 1783. We inclose the Resolution of the Honble House of Assembly, and pray that Council will be pleased to grant us the Draft therein directed. We have the honor to be, With great respect, your Excellencies Most hole. Servt., F. B. BOWEN, GEO. BUSH, for E. BEATTY, }Agents' Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President, in Council. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., pp. 401, 402. - 10+
Page 438
438 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. To CoMMIssionERs on Bound ARy, 1785. Instructions. In Council, April 9th, 1785. Gentlemen, Council taking into Consideration the Resolution of the General Assembly of the 28th of August, 1783, and the Report of the Commissioners for determining the Boundary between this Common- wealth & the State of Virginia, of the 18th of November last, and that our southern Boundary is now ascertained, have thereupon ap- pointed you Commissioners to run and mark the boundary of this Commonwealth, from the southern Corner thereof to the North-west corner of the same, as you will perceive by our Act herewith delivered and duly authenticated. Depending upon your Diligence, Integrity & knowledge, we expect that this important work will be accomplished in the ensuing season, with Fidelity, & all the exactness to be derived from astronomical observations. You will act in conjunction with the Commissioners on the part of the State of Virginia, as far as they may choose to º with you. The line of boundary we desire to have marked y a Vista and by stones properly prepared & fixed in the Ground, at the distance of five miles, one from another, every stone to be in- scribed with the distance from the south-west corner. The north-west corner of the State is to be ascertained by astronom- ical observations, & must be so marked as to be rendered as dis- tinguishable as may be by all the Means you can devise. . If any Commissioners on the Behalf of the United States appear, to join with you in ascertaining the Boundary, You will be pleased cheerfully to co-operate with them. . . We ardently wish, that you, Gentlemen, may in the execution of this Commission and in your Return, seize the opportunity, for making every observation, and obtaining all possible Information, concerning the situation and course of Rivers & Streams, Hills and Mountains, that may be of the least use in assisting the public Councils on the very interesting subject of forming the most advan- tageous Communications by Roads & Canals between the different parts of the Country. We have appointed Mr. Stephen Porter to attend you as Commis- sary under your direction. He is to purchase before you set out, the articles of which a list is inclosed, except such as can be obtained from the public stores, procure provisions at the places of Operation, hire necessary Labourers, & render a just and true ac- count of the Monies expended. - I am with much Esteem, Gentlemen, your most obdt. and very Humble Servant, Directed, JOHN DICKINSON. Dr. John Ewing and Thomas Hutchins, Esquire.
Page 439
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 439 - In Council, April, 1785. Gentlemen, In pursuance of a Law entitled “An Act to authorize &c.,” we have appointed you Commissioners on the part of this Commonwealth, as will appear from our Act herewith delivered, & duly authenti- cated. The Act of which a copy is inclosed so fully points out the duty to be performed by you, that we have but little to add for your further instructions. The Line of Boundary we wish to have marked, (as in the fore- going instructions only Changing the words, “south-west corner,” for the words, “North-east corner.”) Observation,--The Western Boundary is a Meridian Line and must be continued until the Commissioners are certain of being far enough North, perhaps quite to Lake Erie. The North-West Corner can only be determined by the Northern Commissioners, for it is the point where their Line will intersect the Meridian afore- said, and they only will be provided with instruments for observ- ing the Latitudes. It is not probable that the York Commis- sioners will suffer the North-east corner to be altered, & it is already sufficiently marked. D. RITTENHOUSE.” SEC’Y ARMSTRONG To PROTHONOTARIES, 1785. Sir, By act of Assembly of the late Province, now State, of Pennsyl- vania, it is directed, “that the Constable of each Township or district in every County, shall, under a certain penalty, make return, on oath or affirmation, unto the Court of Q'. Sessions, of the names & places of abode of all persons within the Township retaining or vending any Liquors liable to pay yº duties imposed by the Act above mentioned, & that the Collector of each County shall have recourse to the returns of the Constables so made.” - This Act is every where enforced by those of a similar nature since made. It becomes, therefore, the Direction of Council, that the Collector of Fayette County be permitted to recur as often as he may Whink proper, to the Constables' returns in your Office, for yº necessary information. I have the honor to be, Sir, Y' very humble serv", JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. Indorsed,—To Michael Huffnagle, Tho' Scott & Ephraim Douglass, Prothon" of Westm", Washington & Fayette Co. * See page 230, 373–378, also Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 402. *
End of Section 150. Continue to next section or 
Section 151
Page 440
440 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. PRES. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGREss, 1785. In Council, April 11, 1785. Gentlemen : Dr John Ewing & Thomas Hutchins, Esquire, the Commis- sioners appointed to run and mark the Boundary of this Common- wealth from the South-west Corner to the North-west Corner thereof, will begin that Work at the first mentioned Place, on the 16* Day of next Month. If Congress think proper to nominate any Commissioners on that Business, the Commissioners of this State will be ready to co-operate with them; and We wish You would be pleased to communicate these Intentions immediately to Congress. I have the Honor to be, with great Esteem, Gentlemen, your most obed' ser', JOHN DICKINSON,+ The Honorable The Delegates in Congress. Mons. DE MARBOIs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Si Philadelphia, April 12", 1785. Sir, I beg leave to be introduced to your Excellency & the Council, to inform them of some facts relating to the fate of a French crimi- nal but too justly condemned, leaving it afterwards to their humanity & clemency to enforce an act of justice, or to moderate its rigour. I shall attend at the hour which your Excellency will direct. I am, with great respect, Sir, Your Excellency's very humble & Obedient Servant, DE MARBOIS.f His Excellency the President of the State of Pennsylvania. SECRETARY OF CONGRESS TO PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Secretary's office, April 12th, 1785. Sir I have the honor of transmitting you the enclosed acts of the 1st, 7th & 12th instant relative to the raising a body of Troops for the * Col. Rec., Vol. XIV. p. 402. # See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 405.
Page 441
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 441 protection of the north western frontiers, the defence of the Inhabi- gtants aainst the depredations of the Indians, for preventing un- warrantable intrusions on lands belonging to the United States, and to guard the public stores. As the United States in Congress assembled have been pleased by a late Ordinance of which I enclose a Copy, to make it a part of the duty of the Secretary of Congress “to transmit to the several States all acts, ordinances, resolutions and recommendations of Congress and to correspond with the States for the purpose of receiving communications from them relative to the execution of the same,” I have embraced the earliest opportunity of forwarding the enclosed acts and trust your Excellency will favour me with an account of the steps taken by your State for raising the quota assigned, that I may make report thereof conformably to the said ordinance. The honor, peace, and prosperity of our nation being objects very near my heart, nothing will give me greater pleasure than frequent opportunities of reporting to Congress the earnest and united en- deavours of the several States to promote those great and desirable ends. I have the honor to be with great respect Your Excellency's most obedient & most humble serv. CHA. THOMSON.” Directed, His Excellency, The Preſent of Pennsylvania. CouncII. To Collector SHARP DELANY, 1785. Secretary's office, 13th April, 1785. Sir, You will see by the enclosed copy of an order of Council of the 1st Instant, that the late proprietaries of this state have been called upon to appear before Council in person or by their respective agents to receive the sum of £15,000 sterling agreeably to act of the Gen. Assembly, of the 27th of Nov., 1779. I have therefore to inform you, that a requisition for a large sum of money, will soon and necessarily be made of you; and that it is the express order of Council, that the better to enable you to comply with such requisi- tion, you will immediately proceed to an effectual & indiscriminate collection of all the Impost arrearages which may be due. with great respect, I am Sir, your most obed’t serv't, Directed, JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y.f Sharp Delany, Esq. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 406. f See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV. p. 405.
Page 442
442 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. SEC'y ARMSTRONG TO EDw'D BARTHOLOMEW, 1785. Sir, Inclosed is a certified copy of your reappointment to the office of Collector of the excise for the City of Philadelphia. I have also to communicate that it is the express order of Council that you immediately proceed to collect all the arrearages which may be due to that office. The demands upon this fund are so great in number, and impor- tunate in their kind, as to call for the greatest attention & punctuality in their discharge. I am, &c., J. ARMSTRONG.” Indorsed, 1785, April 14th. To Edward Bartholomew, Esquire, Collector of Excise City & Co'y of Philada. Entered. SECRETARY OF CoNGRESS To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Secretary's Office, - April 15th, 1785. Sir, - I have the honor to enclose an act of Congress passed the 13th empowering the States which shall have settled with their respective lines on the principles of the act of 1st of June, 1784, of which I also enclose a Copy, to charge the United States with the payments made, provided the services shall not have been settled for by the paymaster general. With great respect I have the honor to be" your Excellency's most obedient and most humble servant, CHA. THOMSON. Directed, - His Excellency, The President of Pennsylvania. JAMES PEARson To PREs. DrcKINson, 1785. To the Hon’ble supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. - Gentlemen, The two hundred pounds received of the Treasurer by your order of the 30th ult. was insufficient to pay the debts then contracted, * * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 405.
Page 443
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 443 therefore divided it in such portions as partly satisfied the most pressing, several balances are yet due to the amount of about Eighty pounds, for which some persons are very pressing and in some pur- chases prompt payment is necessary. The sums of forty & Thirty pounds you were pleased to order for the Improvement of the State House square are Expended and a debt of more than Twenty pounds incurred. Therefore request the Council will be pleased to order me such a sum as will be sufficient to pay those debts, Continue the reparations of the buildings, and make such further improvements in the s” square as your Honorable Board may direct. And Oblige your h’ble Ser’t JAMES PEARSON. Philada., April 16th, 1785. RETURN OF OFFICERS BELONGING TO THE County of PHILA- DELPHIA MILITIA, 1785. Return of Officers duly Elected, belonging to the County of Phila- delphia Militia. 5th Battalion, 3d Company. Captain Peter Worrell, Lieutenant Adam Fisher, Ensign Edward Haley. WM. COATS, Lieu', C. P. Philad’a County, Lieutenants Office, the 18th April, 1785. Directed, To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President of The Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. DR. JoHN Ewing To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Philad'a, Ap' 18th, 1785. Honºle Sir, On Saturday Evening I had the Honor of receiving a Commission from Council appointing me, in conjunction with Mr. Hutchins, to run and ascertain by astronomical Observation, the western Boun- dary of this State, a work that will require the whole of the ensuing Summer & Autumn. The Reasons that induced me to resign the com- mission,” with which Council had before honoured me to perform the same work, operate as powerfully against my acceptance of this. So long an absence from the university would materially affect its Interest, and it is doubtful to me, whether in yº present Situation, the Trustees would consent to my absence for a single month, even to give assistance in ascertaining the Direction of the meridian & * See page 428.
Page 444
444 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. beginning the work. However sensible I am of the Honour, which Council has done me in y” repeated appointment, I am constrained to request them to appoint some other Person for the Business. I am hon’ble Sir, your most obed’t & very humble Serv't,” JOHN EWING. Directed, - To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr., President of the State of Pennsylvania. - SECY. ARMSTRONG To WM. MACLAY AND Jos. Montgomery, 1785. Sec'rys Office, - Philad", April 18th, 1785. Sir, l, have to advise you that under the late Act of Assembly for finally determining the Northern Boundary of this State; David Rittenhouse & And'w Porter, Esquires, have been appointed to ex- ecute that service. With much respect I am &c., JOHN ARMSTRONG, jr., Sr. Directed, To William Maclay and Joseph Montgomery, Esq’rs. MILITARY OFFICERS of NoFTHUMBERLAND, Co., 1785 A Return of the Company Officers Elected in the first Battalion Northumberland County Militia Commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Peter Hosterman. Captains. Lieutenants. Ensigns. 1 Charles Gobin, Paul Balty, John Harris Junr., 2 Abraham Jones, Jacob Reid, Willm. Fitscort, 3 Andrew Leist, Daniel Hesinger, Jacob Bard, 4 Joseph Laurentz, Martin Withenton Jacob Bucher, 5 John White, John Coleman, George Painter, 6 Charles Myer, George Ulrich, Nicholas Reem, 7 Philip Myer, George Moore, Andrew Delman, 8 Peter Whitman, Simon Hemnad, Martin Rostodor, I do hereby Certify the above to be a just abstract from the Re- turns gave me by the Colonels. WM. WILSON, Lt. N. County. April, 24th, 1785. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 443. |
Page 445
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 445 A Return of the Company Officers Elected in the second Battalion Northumberland County Militia, Commanded by Lieutenant Col. James Morrow. - Captains, Lieutenants. Ensigns. 1 Joseph Alexander ,George Headman, Francis Malone, 2 John Wheeler, Daniel Goodman, Garrit Vancamp, 3 Wm. Montgomery, James Lemon, Andrew Cochran, 4 John Nilson, George Hammond, Aaron Hemrod, 5 John Martin, John Clark, John McMahon, 6 Charles Clark, Alexander Dickson, Willm. Case, 7 Richard Martin, Hamilton Armstrong, Thomas Pollock, 8 Robert Smith, John Eason, Daniel Vincent, I do Hereby Certify the above to be a just abstract from the returns gave me by the Colonels. WM. WILSON, Lieut. North. Co. April 24th, 1785. A Return of the Company Officers Elected in the third Battalion of Northumberland County Militia, Commanded by Lieutenant Col. Hepburn. - Captains, Lieutenants, Ensigns, 1 Peter Grove, Robert Hamilton, John Love, 2 Thomas Foutner, Samuel Jiles, Willm. Walker, 3 Corn's Walldrum, Joseph Wickoff, John Robb Junr., 4 Robert Flemming, Alexander Mahan, Andrew Boss, 5 Willm. Hammond, Willm. Jones, Willm. Winters Jr., 6 John Surdder, Jacob Colliner, Peter Sydles, 7 Willm. McGrady. Braton Caldwell, John Cledinin, I do Hereby Certify the above to be a Just abstract from the re- turns gave me by the Colonels. WM. WILSON, Lieut., N. County. April 24th A Return of the Company Officers, Elected in the fifth Battlion Northumberland County Militia, Commanded by Lieutenant Col. John Kelly. Captains. Lieutenants. Ensigns. 1 Michael Andrews, Adam Harper, Joseph Price, 2 Willm. Clark. John Eackin, George Clark, 3 John Thompson, James Irvine, George Brook,
Page 446
446 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Captains. Lieutenants. Ensigns. 4 Joseph Poake, Samuel Iddings, James Moore, 5 Joseph Green, Henry Pongers, . James Moore, 6 Samuel McGready, Jacob Treasbach, Benjamin Miller, 7 James Potter, Jr. John Brown, James Hunter, 8 John McPherson, Michael Wildgoose, James Templeton, I do hereby Certify that the above to be a Just abstract from the returns gave me by the Colonels. Indorsed, WM. WILSON, Lieut. N. County. Sunbury April 24th, 1785. SECY. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785 Si Office for foreign Affairs, 28 April, 1785. Ir, I have the Honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith inclosed, an act of Congress of the 18th Inst, recognising Jan Hendrik Christian Heineken as Consul from their High Mightinesses the Lords and States General of the United Netherlands for Pennsyl- vania and along the River Delaware to reside at Philadelphia; and calling upon your State to furnish Mr. Heineken with their Exe- quatur or notification of his Quality, &c., with great Respect and Esteem, I am your Excellency's most obt. and hble. Servt. Directed, JOHN JAY.” His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., President of the State of Pennsylvania. By the United States in Congress Assembled. It is hereby made known, to all whom it may concern, That full credence and respect are to be paid to Jan Hendrik Christian Heineken, Consul from their High Mightinesses the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands for Pennsylvania and along the River Delaware to reside at Philadelphia, Which State is called upon by virtue of the powers delegated by the Confederation to the United States in Congress assembled, to furnish the said Jan Hen- drik Christian Heineken with their exeguatur or notification of his quality, delivering one copy thereof to the said Jan Hendrik Christian Heineken and causing another to be published in one or more gazettes. - - Done at New York this Eighteenth day of April in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred & Eighty five, and of Sovereignty and Independence the ninth. - By the United States in Congress assembled. RICHARD HENRY LEE, P. CHA. THOMSON, Secy. * See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV. p. 451.
End of Section 151. Continue to next section or 
Section 152
Page 447
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 447 The United States in Congress Assembled, September 7, 1781. The following form of the exeguatur, is recommended to the Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Penns'a. To All to whom it may concern : John Hendrick Christian Heineken Esquire, having been recog- nized by the United States in Congress assembled, as Consul from their High Mightinesses, it is hereby declared, that the privileges, pre-eminence and authority belonging to such character and quality, are due to him”. Mons. DE MARBOIs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Si Philadelphia, April 28th, 1785. Ir, - The clemency used by the honourable Council in the case of Lewis Colinett has impressed me with sentiments adequate to the motives I had for intreating for his pardon. If your Excellency will give orders for his being released whenever I will send for him I shall take care that he be carried to New York to be there embarked on board of the French Paket, as there is no French vessell in this harbour, I shall be under necessity of Keeping him in gaole some days, but will use as little delay as can be. I am with great respect, Sir, your Excellency's, most obedient and humble Servant, DE MARBOIS. PREs. DICKINSON TO THOMAS SMITH, 1785. Si In Council, April 30", 1785. Ir, As there are great Numbers of Counterfeit Certificatest now in Circulation, We wish that the utmost Care may be used by you to guard against them, in performing the Duties required by the “Act for furnishing the Quota of this State toward paying the Annual Interest of the Debt of the United States; and for funding and paying the Interest of the public Debts of this State.” It is therefore much to be desired, that you should immediately procure from the Continental Officers such Books or Transcripts as may prevent any Imposition, either by Falsification of Names or Sums. I am, with great Esteem, Sir, Your most obedº Serv", JOHN DICKINSON, Thomas Smith, Esquire, Continental Loan Officer in this State. * Col. Rec. Wol., XIV. p. 451. # Ib. 449. f Ib. 450
Page 448
448 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. PREs. DICKINSON TO THE JUDGES, 1785. In Council, May 2", 1785. Gentlemen : We have received Information of many very outrageous Dis- turbances of the public Peace in the County of Northumberland, by persons not claiming Lands under this Commonwealth. As some of you, Gentlemen, are soon to be at Sunbury upon the Circuit, it is our earnest Desire, that all the Enquiries may be made & those legal Measures immediately directed and prosecuted, that will tend to restore & preserve the Peace. With great Esteem, I am, Your most obedº, hble. serv", JOHN DICKINSON. The Honorable The Chief Justice & the other Judges of the Su- preme Court. LIEUT. Col. Josiah HARMAR TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. Fort McIntosh, May 1", 1785. Sir, - I have the honor to inclose to your Excellency and the honorable Council, a monthly Return of the Pennsylvania troops in the Ser- vice of the United States, dated this day. If your Excellency & the honorable Council should be of opinion that it is necessary to appoint some person for the preservation of this fort upon the troops marching from hence, and have not already nomi- nated one for the purpose, I beg leave to recommend Mº David Duncan, of Pittsburg, as a suitable person, and one who is desirous of taking charge of it.* Understanding that several Vagabonds had presumed to improve the lands betwixt this & Fort Pitt which have been appropriated by the honorable the legislature of the State for the redemption of the de- preciation Certificates, and apprehending that a removal of them would meet your Excellency's and the honorable Council's approba- tion, (altho' not in the line of duty as a Continental Officer,) I have taken the liberty to detach an Officer with a small party, who has destroyed their cabbins & driven them from their improvements. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem and respect, Your Excellency's & The honorable Council's most hble. & obedº Serv", JOS. HARMAR, Directed, Lt. Col. Com' 1" Am" Reg'. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq.", president, & The Honora- ble The Supreme Executive Council, Pennsylvania. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 448.
Page 449
- s: Monthly RETURN of THE PENNSYLVANIA TR00PS IN THE SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATEs, 1785. Monthly Return of the Pennsylvania Troops in the Service of the United States, Commanded by Josiah Harmar, Esquire, Lieut Colonel Commandant. Fort McIntosh, May 1st, 1785. Officers present fit for duty. Want'g to Field. Com'd. Staff. Non Com. Rank & File. complete. ars — ... if 5 ... = F * = | g; I & ? 3 #| |3||||s|| #|...} : ######, ## r- Infantry 33 g|É|, |g|##|g| |### = |### 2.É?” 2 #: Ca Companies. 3 #######|#| |E|3|2 = # ## 3 T 3 g : E → * |º ă ă|####2 ºf $3|z|#|###| || 3 flºº ###| |4 > |#################|s så få ÉÉ;|3 E | 333333333333.53% #5 5 #####|3 3 1 | | | | | |, ... 3 * Capt. W. Finney's, 1 1|3|1| 45' 5 55 1 14 Capt. D'd Zeigler's, 1 1 4|2| 53 3 62 8 <! Capt. W. McCurdy's, 1| 1 || 1 2| 2 50 6 60 2 8 - -1-1-1-1--- —|-|--|-- --- - - : Total, 1 2. 1 3 | 1 1|1|g| 5 || 14814 T TIT 2| 1 || 30 > Com dNon-Comm'd offiºrs > - om'rs...and privates. TE. — ź * | |# É REMARRs. +3 5 || ||= | . 2: Capt. Douglass's Com- . = 3; i.e. # 2 * : 3 Captain Finney, Lieutenant Beatty & Surgeon McDowell, of the Pennsyl- º pany of Artillery, .5 |É ă ă ă |#2 |# tº vania Troops, are on furlough. Lieutenant Herbert is suspended from his P+ #|É .#. É. f E|3: 5 # E command until orders from Congress or the War Office. No Chaplain is as yet º: # #|3 à é Ä # 3. £ appointed. Ensign Denny acts as Adjutant pro tem. The 3 sick absent, who 9. - z - == = - were reported in last return, are now left out, as they are supposed to be de- Present fit for duty, 1|1| 3 2 3|8 |2 35482 serted. l Corporal of Artillery dead since last return. Sick present, - JOS. HARMAR, - ----|--|--|-- Lt. Col. Comd. 1st. Amn. Regt. Total, Artillery, iſ 1828 & 2354s 2.
End of Section 152. Continue to next section or 
Section 153
Page 450
- 450 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Gov. CLINTON of N. Y. To PREs. DICKINSON,-Bound ARY, 1785. - New York, 2nd May, 1785. Sir, Since I had the Honor of receiving your Excellency's last Letter. , Philip Schuyler, James Clinton and Simeon De Witt, Esquires have been appointed on the Part of this State for running and ascertaining the jurisdiction Line between your State and this, so that nothing now remains to be done, but the appointing a Time for the commencement of the Business and making the necessary arrangements for carrying it into execution, I should suppose if these were to be submitted to the Gentlemen respectively appointed to perform the service, matters Might be so concerted by them as not only to facilitate it and save expences but so as best to suit their own Private Conveniency. I shall be happy therefore if this senti- ment should meet with your Excellency's Concurrence. - - I have the Honor to be, Sir, your most Obedient Servant, GEO, CLINTON.” Directed, To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the State of Pennsylvania. Honored by Col’o Wilson. - -- - John Story To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Philadelphia, May 3d, 1785. Sir, I had the honor of addressing your Excellency under the 14th ultimo requesting an advance of Cash to enable me to enter upon the Business of my office. In answer to which Council was pleased to inform me that it was not then convenient to make the advance, but if on application to Congress I could not obtain it, that Council would make the advance upon my Return to this City. Agreeable to which Intimation I have made application to the Treasury Board for an advance, but could not obtain it. They informed me there was no cash in the Treasury. I did not apply to Congress as it would have detained me several days. They being determined not to take up any private application untill the Business before them is compleated. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 457.
Page 451
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 451 My not succeeding at New York obliges me to renew my applica- tion to Council, and I am under the necessity of requesting that Council will be pleased to grant me five hundred Dollars. When I requested Three hundred Dollars, I did not make a calculation of the Expences I should necessarily be at, and upon making an Estimate find that the sum now requested is as little as I can pos- sibly do with. I have received my instructions from Mr. Milligan, and shall be ready to proceed to the place of my destination as soon as I can obtain cash, procure Horses, &c. I have the honor to be with great Respect, your Excellency's most obedient Hum. Servant, JNO. STORY...+ Directed, To his Excellency The President of the State of Pennsylvania, PREs. DICKINsoN To John STORY, 1786. In Council, May 3d, 1785. Sir, To enable you to discharge the Duties of your appointment, we have in Compliance with the Request in your Letter of this Day, agreed to supply you with five hundred Dollars. We wish you to enter upon the Execution of your office as soon as possible in Washington County, & to proceed thereon through the Counties of Westmoreland & Fayette, unless Circumstances shall hereafter require any alteration of this Direction.* Directed, To John Story, Esquire, additional Commissioner of accounts. PREs. DICKINson To JoHN LUKENs, S. GEN., 1785. In Council, May 3d, 1785. Sir, The “Act for directing the Mode of distributing the Donation Lands, promised to the Troops of this Commonwealth,” orders that the surveyor general shall forthwith appoint Deputies for surveying the Lots therein mentioned. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 386, 399, 451, 452, and this Wol., p. 426 # See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 451, 452. -
Page 452
452 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. We find by a Report made to us this Morning by the Comptroller General,” that it will be necessary to have the Lots surveyed & laid off in the following numbers & quantities: that is to say, 177 lots of the first Description, each containing 500 acres; 88 of the - second Description, each containing 300 acres; 186 of the third Description, each containing 250 acres; &2119 of the fourth Descrip- tion, each containing 200 acres. - You will be pleased to order your Deputies to take effectual care, that the Lands remote from the eastern and northern Boundaries of the State shall be first surveyed, & that this may be done in such Manner as may be best. We wish you to avail yourself of all the Information that can be obtained from Wm. Irvine, Esquire, the Agent appointed by us in pursuance of the aforesaid Act. We rely upon your Prudence & Attention for giving all the In- structions to your Deputies when appointed & approved that may be requisite for carrying the act into execution. I am with much Esteem, Sir, yr. most obdt. htle. Servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Surveyor General. AND'w ELLICOTT To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Sir, By a Letter which I received from Mr. Rittenhouse, dated the 28th of April; I understand that the Executive Council, (at the Head of which you preside,) have appointed me one of your Com- missioners to run the Western Boundary of your State over the Ohio.f. As I have been employed in favour of Virginia on this business to that River, I find that I can attend with conveniency afterward in favour of Pennsylvania. I think it would be proper to send the Commission either to Mr Rittenhouse or Capt Hutchins, as it may miscarry by the way of Baltimore. I shall leave this Place and proceed for the Western Country in two or three Days, where I expect to meet the above Gentlemen. I have the honor to be, your Excellencies Humble Servt., AND’W ELLICOTT. Baltimore, May 4th, 1785. Directed, - His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., Philadelphia. * See Col. Rec., XIV., p. 458. # See Ib. 454, 464.
Page 453
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 453 A RETURN OF OFFICERs ELECTED AGREEABLE TO MILITIA LAW of PENNSYLVANIA, 1785. A Return of Officers duly Elected and Nominated agreeable to the Militia Law of the State of Pennsylvania. : 3. When Names. Rank. Battalion's When Elected. Nominated. - dº Henry Rail, Iº. Fifth, 7|Aug. 30, 1784. - John Hawkins, Lieut., Do., 5 Sept. 11, 1784. Andrew McEntire, Ensign., Do., 5 Do. 23, “ John Deniss, Captain, Do., 7 April 12, 1785. Luke Morriss, jr. Captain, First, 8 April 13, “ John Pisant, Major, Third, April 15, 1784, John Woodside, Captain, Artillery | 6 Do. 18, “ John Rusk, Captain, Third, 8 Do. 21, “ George Nelson, Capt. Lt., Artillery 6 Do. 25, “ Joseph Mansfield, Lieutenant Third, 8. Do. 30, “ Thomas Reynolds, Lieutenant First, 8 May 2, 1785. Henry Weaver, Ensign., Do., 8 May 2, “ Lambert Wilmer, 1st Lieut., Artillery | 6 May 2, “ City Philada., Lieutenants office, May 5th, 1785. WM. HENRY, Lt. Directed, *- . . His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President, and the Honor- able the Supreme Executive Council, of the State of Pennsylvania. PREs. DICKINSON TO Col. F. JoHNSTON, 1785. s In Council, May 6th, 1785. Ir - As there are great numbers of Counterfeit Certficates in Circu- lation, we wish that the utmost Care may be used by you to guard against them, in performignthe Duties required of you by the “act for opening the Land office, for granting and disposing of the un- appropriated Lands within this state.” It is therefore much to be desired, that you should immediately procure from the Continental offices such books or Transcripts as may prevent any Imposition, either by nullification of Names or sumns. I am with great Esteem, Sir, your most obed’t serv't, JOHN DICKINSON.” Directed, Francis Johnson, Esquire, IReceiver General of the Land office. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 455. Vol. X. —20 -
Page 454
454 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. PREs. DICKINSON TO CoMMIssionERs on N. Y. Bound ARY, 1785. Gentlemen, I received the inclosed Letter from Gov’r Clinton* late last night; & as his proposal of a Correspondence between you & the Commissioners of the State of New York, appears very proper to be adopted, I think it necessary that the Communication should be made to you, before you set out on your journey to the westward. I shall be obliged, if you will be pleased to return the inclosure to-day. I am, Gentlemen, your very h’ble ser’t May 8th 1785. JOHN DICKINSON.t Directed, David Rittenhouse & Andrew Porter, Esquires. DAVID RITTENHouse To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. May 8th, 1785. Sir, I thank your Excellency for communicating Governor Clinton's Letter. I likewise received one last evening from Mr. DeWitt, one of the Gentlemen appointed by the State of New York for ascer- taining the Boundary Line. He proposes their meeting us at Philadelphia to concert measures for carrying the business into execution, and wishes to receive our propositions by the next Post, as he is going to set off soon for Albany. He says they must depend on us for the necessary Instruments. I believe there is no Instrument fit for the purpose in this part of America excepting the 6 feet Sector belonging to Mr. Penn. But I have been for some time employed in making one which will be much more portable than that of Mr. Penn, and, I doubt not, equally accurate. It might soon be finished if I was not obliged to go to the westward. Whether the Northern Boundary may be deferred to another season Council alone can determine. I wish it might, as it seems scarcely possible to attend to both this Summer; if not I see nothing more eligible than the plan agreed on viz', for me to return some time in 5. But I wish to remind your Excellency how little my Constitution is adapted to so much fatigue. I am, Sir, your Excell’cys, very Humble Servant, Directed, DAV. RITTENHOUSE.t IIis Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire. * See page 450. † See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 457. f Ibid.
Page 455
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 455 PREs. DICKINSON To DAVID RITTENHouse, 1785. Secretary's office, Si Philadelphia, May 9, 1785. 1r, - Governor Clinton's letter of the 2d of May with the letters which passed yesterday between you & the President upon it, were this morning laid before Council—who after reconsidering the subject have thought proper to direct, that you & Coll. Porter should pro- ceed to the westward agreeably to their instructions of the 6th inst. and that you should enter upon an immediate correspondence with the New York Commissioners and with them, determine when you can proceed to ascertain the northern Line. I am, Sir, with great regard º your obed. & very hum. serv't, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, David Rittenhouse & Andrew Porter, Esq’rs. SEC'y ARMSTRONG TO COL. J. HARMAR, 1785. Sec'y Office, Philadel’a, 10th May, 1785. Sir, - Inclosed is a second copy of the late Resolutions of Congress for raising a new Regim'. I have also to repeat the requisition of Council that you would be as early in communicating to them, the names &c., of such of the officers as choose to continue under the present arrangement, as possible. Captain Finney will inform you of another ordinance, providing for the discharge of the Troops now in service. The time and man- ner of carrying this into effect are committed to the Secretary of War—Council are however of opinion, that should no order of this kind reach you before the enlistment of the Troops expire, you will render a very important service to the State in keeping the men to- gether untill the sense of the Legislature can be taken upon the you mode of raising their proportion of the new Corps. The Assembly will begin to sit some time in August. I have also to inform that under the very improper & unaccountable reduction which has been made in the pay of the officers—Council have thought it their duty to bring about if possible a reconsideration” of that part of the Ordi- nance & cannot but flatter themselves that such alteration will yet * See page 440.
End of Section 153. Continue to next section or 
Section 154
Page 456
456 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. take place as must make your continuance in service as agreeable as they could wish it. I have the Honor to be with great esteem, Sir, y: mo, obº & very Hb. Serv,” JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. Directed, To Lt. Col. Josiah Harmar. D. RITTENHOUSE, TREAS., To PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. May 10th, 1785. Sir, You whl please to inform Council that there is at present about 7000, of the new paper money Signed and ready to be issued, most of the Signers are but just entering on the business, but so many of them are now engaged that with very little industry they may fur- nish ºf 10,000 tº week in future. I am Sir, your Humble Serv't, * DAV’D RITTENHOUSE, Treas. Directed, To John Armstrong, Esquire, Secretary. PREs. DICKINson To BoARD OF WARDENs, 1785. In Council, May 11th, 1785. Gentlemen, Inclosed are a Copy of a Contract made this Day with Thomas Davis in pursuance of your Recommendation, & an order on the Treasury for four thousand & one hundred pounds payable to you, for enabling him to erect piers in the River Delaware for sheltering shipping. As we understand, that putting the Business into this train is agreeable to you. We rely on your knowledge & attention in super- intending it, so that the agreement may be strictly observed, and all the public advantages derived from it that are expected. I am Gentlemen, your most obedº Serv", JOHN DICKINSON.f Pirected, To the Board of Wardens. * See pages 440, 457. f See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 458, 468, 474.
End of Section 154. Continue to next section or 
Section 155
Page 457
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, 457 e PREs. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1785. In Council, May 11th, 1785. Gentlemen, We are of opinion, that by the Resolution of Congress of the 12th of last April, the pay of the Lieut's Col., Major & Captains, & particularly of the first is reduced too low. We therefore desire, that you would endeavour to obtain a Reconsideration of that Resolution. I am with much respect, Gen'tny mo, obd” & very h’ble Servt. JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, - To the Hon’ble the Delegates. - º SEc'Y of CoNGRESs To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Secretary's Office, May 12th, 1785. Sir, I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency an Act of the United States in Congress assembled for laying out into distinct States the western Territory ceded to the Union by individual States, and stating the principle on which the temporary and permanent governments of the New States shall be established, also an ordinance for ascertaining the mode of disposing of lands in the western terri- tory and subsequent measures taken for carrying the ordinance into effect. Having received no answer to my letter of the 12th April last, covering the Acts of the 1st, 7th and 12th of that month, relative to the raising a body of troops for the purposes therein mentioned, I must beg the favour of your Excellency to communicate to me the steps taken by your State for raising the quota assigned, that I may be enabled to make report thereof. With the greatest respect I have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Serv't, . CHA. THOMSON.” Directed, To His Excellency the President of Pennsylvania. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 471, and page 440 of this. y
Page 458
458 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. D. RITTENHouse to V. P. JAMEs IRVINE, 1785. May 12th, 1785. Dr. Sir, - When the marking a temporary Line between this State and New York was talked of a small astronomical Quadrant was purchased for that purpose, it is very portable and would be useful on the western Line, not for the purpose of running the Line or fixing the N. W. Corner but for correcting the Geography of the Country, as it is public property and at present in my possession I would not hesitate to take it with me if I was assured that it will not be wanted by the Gentlemen who were going on the temporary Line. I shall be much obliged to you for any information on this matter. your's with great respect, DAVID RITTENEIOUSE. Directed, Hon. James Irvine, Esquire, W. President.* PREs. DICKINson, To Gov. of New JERSEY, 1785. In Council, May 13th, 1785. Sir, We have the Honor to inclose a Resolution of the General Assembly of this Commonwealth of the thirty first of last March, concerning an object of much Importance both to New Jersey & Pennsylvania. I am Sir, with great Respect, &c., Directed, His Excellency, The Gov., of New Jersey. - John LUKENs, S. G., To SECY. ARMSTRONG, 1785. Surv. Generals Office, 14th May, 1784.f Sir Í received yours of yesterday's date concerning the Commissioning ersons whose names were sent to Council on the 5th Inst. wou'd i. you wou'd lay, the following facts before Council,—as soon as Gen. Irvine was appointed agent to explore the Donation lands he came to me and we agreed to divide the same into ten Districts an * He was elected as successor to James Ewing, Nov. 6, 1784.—and re- signed Oct. 10, 1785, and was succeded by Hon. Charles Biddle. See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 249, 552. # Indorsed, May 14th, 1785, which is probably the correct date. See Col. Rec., XIV. p., 454. 1 Ibid.
Page 459
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 459 named the Surveyors, four of whom were officers of the Pennsylva. Line, and were recommended by their Superior officers, and were Practical Surveyors in the back Counties, to which we added Six more as per List, sent to Council ye 5th Inst. at which time Mr. Watts coming in, desired me to enter his son's name which I did, and have also sent in the names of James Hoge & Peter Light since for fear some of the first ten should disappoint us, four of the first ten are Commissioned & the others are sent for—now why the eleventh shou'd be pushed in before we hear something from the others I shou'd be glad to be informed, unless Council have some objection to some of the first, especially as Mr. Watts objects to his Son coming to town to take out his Deputation, & Confesses he has not been in the practice of Surveying, I remain yours to serve, JNO. LUKENS, S. G. Directed, John Armstrong Junr., Esqr., Secy. to Council, present. WAR OFFICE TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. (Circular,) War Office, New York, May 19th, 1785. Sir, As Secretary of the United States for the war department I have to request that your Excellency will have the goodness to inform me of the measures which have been adopted by the State of Pennsyl- vania to raise the proportion of troops required by the act of Congress of the 12 of April last. It is importent to the public interest that these troops should be raised as soon as possible as a great part of them are to attend the commissioners of Indian affairs upon the Wabash or Illinois the dis- tance of which places require that the troops should be put early into motion that the treaty may be held in due season. I have the honor to be, Sir, with the greatest respect, your Excellency's most obedient humble servant, H. KNOX.” Directed His Excellency, the President of the State of Pennsylvania. War Office H. Knox. * See Col. Rec., XIV., p. 465.
Page 460
460 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. PRES. DICKINSON TO THE C. J. AND other JUDGEs, 1785. In Council, May 21st, 1786. Gentlemen, Having on the second Instant* communicated to you Information of Disturbances of the public Peace in the County of Northumberland, we think it proper to transmit to you also a Copy of the Report made to us on the 18th, by the Committee of The General Assembly on the Wyoming Business which you will now receive with several Inclosures. I am with great Esteem, Gentlemen, your most obedt. & hble. Servt, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Honorable The Chief Justice, & the other Judges of the Supreme Court. MAGISTRATES AND SHERIFF of NoFTHUMBERLAND COUNTY, 1785. In Council, May 21st, 1785. Gentlemen, We are informed, that many very outragous Disturbances of the public peace have lately been committed in your County by persons not claiming Lands under this Commonwealth. We expect, that you will properly exercise the authority vested in you by Law for preserving the Peace, and apprehending, com- mitting and punishing those who break the same. We have written to the Judges of the Supreme Courtí who are expected to be soon at Sunbury, desiring them when they shall be there, to make the due Enquiries, & direct legal Measures to be immediately prosecuted. I am, &c., &c. Directed, The Magistrates & Sheriff of Northumberland County. PREs. DICKINsoN To WAR OFFICE, 1785. In Council, May 21st, 1785. Sir This day we have had the Honor of receiving your Letter of the nineteenth.f The act of Congress of the 12th of April has been transmitted by us to Col. Harmar; and as the general assembly is adjourned to * See page 448. # See page 448. 1 See page 459,
End of Section 155. Continue to next section or 
Section 156
Page 461
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 461 the 23d of August, we have given him our opinion, that if no order for the Discharge of the Troops reaches him before the Inlistment expires, he will render an important service to the State, in keeping the Men together, untill the Sense of the Legislature can be taken upon the Mode of raising the proportion of Pennsylvania. If such an order for the Discharge of the Troops should be given, we apprehend, many very considerable Inconveniences will neces- sarily result from the Measure. I am Sir, your most obed’t serv't, JOHN DICKINSON.” Genl. Knox. Directed, The Honorable John Dickinson, Esq're, President of the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. Thos. SMITH, L. O., To PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. Philad'a, May 21st, 1785. r *. money received on your Excellency's order is nearly paid away—please to Issue an order for a further sum. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect, yº Excellency's most obed. h’ble Serv., THOS. SMITH, Cl. L. Office for the State Pennsylvania.f Sec'y of CONGRESS To PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. Office of Secretary of Congress, May 31st, 1785. Sir, I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency two acts of the United States in Congress assembled, one passed the 3d November, 1783, directing the paymaster General to deposit in the hands of regimental agents the Certificates for the arrears of pay due to the officers and soldiers of the respective lines of the late army to be by them delivered to the Individuals or deposited for their benefit as the supreme Executive of their respective States shall direct. The other passed the 27th of the present month requesting the Legis- * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 465. # Ibid p. 466. 20+
Page 462
462 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, lature of the respective States to cause the services of the said agents to be examined, and make them such allowance as they may think them entitled to. Your Excellency will be pleased to lay these before the Legislature of your state and communicate to me their determination, that I may report the same to Congress. With great Respect I have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedient and most humble serv't, CHA. THOMSON.” Directed His Excellency, The President of Pensylvania. MICHAEL HUFFNAGLE TO J. ARMSTRONG, JR., 1785. Dear Sir, Since I wrote you Mr. Thompson has furnished me with copy's of two depositions & a copy of the Bill of Sale for the Ruins of the Garrison at Pittsburgh, and an Inventory of the purchase, a great [part] of which, has since that time been made use of for the Garrison Council will please to direct us how to proceed; if Council should be of opinion to have them sold; I could wish Mr. Trimble to have the Necessary advertisement inserted in the papers & furnish me with one of the papers. I would just mention, that I think it would be necessary for Council to apply to Congress, to order the Secretary of War, to order the Commanding officer at the time of his removal to give the possession to such person or persons as Council shall direct to receive the same; it may perhaps be a means of preventing a great deal of trouble. your very humble Servant, MICH. HUFFNAGLE:f Mr. Thompson is perfectly agreed with any proceedings of Council. Hanna's Town, May 6th, 1785. - Directed,—(On Public Service.) Gen'l John Armstrong, jr. Secretary, Philadelphia. No. 1. DEPOSITION OF DoRSEY PENTICOST. Fred'k County, ss. This day came Dorsey Penticost of lawful age before the Com- missioners appointed by the Honble Assembly and Convention for settling the accts. of the late Expedition under Lord Dunmore, & being sworn upon the holy Evangelists deposeth & Sayeth that he * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 471, 472. # See Ibid., 472, 498.
Page 463
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, 463 saw a Letter from Gen'i Gage, dated in the winter 1772, which seemed to be an answer to a Remonstrance from the Inhabitants of Fort Pitt, desiring to Purchase the Ruins of Fort Pitt; wherein he informs them he had recd. a return from Major Edmonstone inform- ing him he had sold the Premises to Alex'r Ross & William Thompson, which sale was good and by his orders. DORSEY PENTICOST. Sworn before me, this 23d of Oct., 1775. (Copy.) No. 2. DEPOSITION OF GEORGE ROOTs. ISAAC KITE. Fred'k County, ss. This day came George Roots of Lawful age before the Commis- sioners appointed by the Honble the Assembly & Convention for settling the Militia accts. of the late Expedition under Lord Dun- more, & being sworn upon the holy evangelists, deposeth and sayeth that Alex'r Ross of Fort Pitt shew’d him a Bill of sale from Major Edmonstone, (who this deponant understood, Commanded at Fort Pitt at the time the sale was made) to Alex'r Ross & William Thompson for all the Ruins of Fort Pitt, & its appendages for a valuable Consideration after the said Fort was dismantled & evacuated by the Kings Troops; and the said Alex'r Ross shew’d this deponant a Letter from Col. Robinson, who this deponant was informed was the Barrack Master Gen'l in America, which Letter seemed to be in answer to one written by the said Ross to the said Col. Robinson, where he informs him, 'twas always customary to sell the Ruins of Forts whenever they were evacuated by the Kings Troops. That the King was never adjudged a vicious intruder but had a right to sell the Ruins of Forts, whenever left by his Troops, & therefore his Purchase was good. GEO. ROOTS. Sworn before me, this 23d day of Oct., 1775. ISAAC KITE. (Copy.) No. 3. BILL OF SALE, &c. Know all Men by these presents that I Charles Edmonstone, Esq., Capt. in his Majesty's 18th or Royal Regiment of Foot of Ireland, and Commanding at Fort Pitt, for and in consideration of the sum of Fifty Pounds, N." York Currency to me, in hand paid
Page 464
464 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. by William Thompson, Gent. in the County of Cumberland, and Province of Pennsylvania, and Alexander Ross, Agent, Victualler at Fort Pitt; the Receipt whereof I do hereby acknowledge, Have Bargained and sold on behalf of the Crown & by these presents do Bargain, sell and deliver unto the said William Thompson & Alexander Ross; All the Pickitts, Bricks, Stone; Timber, and Iron, which now is in the Building or Walls of the Fort, and in the Redoubts to be demolished by order of his Excellency the Honble Lieut. General Thomas Gage, Commander in Chief of his Majisty's Forces in North America. To have and to hold the said Bargained Pickitts, Bricks, Stones, Timber and Iron, unto the said William Thompson & Alex'r Ross, their Executors, admrs. & assigns forever. And I the said Charles Edmonstone, in behalf of the crown, shall and will Warrant & forever defend against all Persons, by these presents the said Bargained Premises unto the said William Thomp- son & Alex'r Ross, their Executors and Assigns. In Witness whereof, I have hereunto, set my hand & seal the tenth day of October, one thouaand seven hundred & seventy-two. (Signed.) CHA'S EDMONSTONE, [seAL.] Signed, Sealed & delivered Commanding. In Presence of, Edm’d Prideaux, Edw'd Hand 1,244,160 Bricks, Sundry Bricks, &c., remg. in the Gov" House, Sundry Square & cut Stones in the Walls of the Fort, 2,026 Pickitts, 4,250 Feet of Walnut Scantling, 499 Feet of Plank, 16 Double Frames of Barrack Rooms, 2,380 Feet of Square Timber, A Square Log House, 50 Feet long, 2 Redoubts, 8 Stacks of Chimneys. M. HUFFNAGLE TO GEN. J. ARMSTRONG, 1785. Dr Sr y I take the first oppertunity of informing you to mention to Council that on the eleventh instant about eight o'clock of the Evening a Delaware Indian Named Mamaughtaquie on the other side of Alle- ghany River opposite Pittsburgh, Kill'd one John Smith, & wounded three Men at the same time—we had him taken, & he is now secured in the Garrison at this place—we have also had an Inquisition held & it is found by them Wilfull Murder. You'll please to mention this to Council for them to appoint some Mode for his trial—as the Inhabitants request that it might be done as soon as possible for fear of an escape or force, as there are but six Men now to guard the
End of Section 156. Continue to next section or 
Section 157
Page 465
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 465 Fortt, and if Council should think it Necessary to send for some of the Chiefs of his Nation to be present at the time of tryal. I have the honor to be - your most ob't H’ble Serv't, MICH. HUFFNAGLE.” Pittsburgh, May 13th, 1785. - Directed, - (On Public Service,) To Gen' John Armstrong, Jr., Secretary, to the Supream Executive Councll, Philadelphia. CoL. J. HARMAR TO PREs. DICKINsoN, 1785. Si Fort McIntosh, May 24th, 1785. ir, I was honoured last evening with your Letter of the 26th ult", inclosing me the late resolution of Congress respecting a new arrangement of the Corps. Inclosed be pleased to receive a list of the Officers who are wil- ling to continue upon the present establishment. If two Captains only are to be appointed, I would beg leave to recommend seniority. Lieut Herbert has been suspended in his command the chief part of the time since the Corps was raised, and in my opinion is unworthy of command. The reduction of the Pay of the Officers appears to be rather par- simonious. What the views of Congress may be, in abridging the pay, the Officers know not. If his Excellency the President & the Honorable the Council should think proper to continue me, I am willing to remain upon the present arrangement. Pay & Subsistence (any further than to support the rank & Dignity of an Officer,) I despise. I have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient & very h’ble Serv't, JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Com.f Directed, To the Honorable John Armstrong, Esqr., Secretary to Council, Philadelphia. Hon'd tº Lt. Doyle. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 471. f Ibid. 473, 480.
Page 466
466 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Names and Rank of the Officers of the Pennsylvania Line, who are at present in the service of the United States and are willing to remain upon the Establishment agreeable to the Act of Congress, of the 7th of April, 1785.

Names. | Rank. |Dates of appointments. Josiah Harmar, Lieutenant Colonel, 12th August, 1784. Walter Finney, Captain, 12th August, 1784. David Zeigler, Captain, 12th August, 1784. William McCurdy, Captain, 12th August, 1784. Thomas Douglass, Captain, ! 12th August, 1784. Joseph Ashton, Lieutenant. 12th August, 1784. Stewart Herbert, Lieutenant, 12th August, 1784. Erkuries Beatty, Lieutenant, 12th August, 1784. Thomas Doyle, Lieutenant, 12th August, 1784. John Armstrong, Ensign, 12th August, 1784. Ebenezer Denny, Ensign, 12th August, 1784. Nathan McDowell, Ensign, 21st October, 1784. John McDowell, Surgeon, 12th August, 1784. Richard Allison, Mate. | 12th August, 1784. JOS. HARMAR, L' Col, Com’t. Fort McIntosh, May 24th, 1785. ROB. GALBRAITH TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. Pittsburg May 25th, 1785. His Excellency John Dickinson Esquire., May it please your Excellency the Indian, who is now confined in the Garrison at this place is anxious to be tried as speedily as may be, and receive the doom he so justly deserves. The Militia of Washington County, have made two attempts to break the Dungeon where he is confined, and Tommihawk him. Captn. Lucket who Commands the Garrison at this place, has but four Men, who are not sufficient to keep Centry over him, even supposing no attempts were made to rescue him. The Inhabitants therefore have been obliged to mount Guard for some nights past untill a few Men were sent by Colonel Harmar from McIntosh to our relief. Last Saturday night the first attempt was made by near fifty men armed with Rifles and axes, who had about eleven o'clock at night forced their way into the Garrison, but through the vigilance of Capt, Lucket and his few men, the Justices and other Citizens, they were dispersed without any Damage being done. Next Monday mor- ning between Daybreak and sunrise, another party, consisting of
This page contains an image.
Page 467
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 467 thirty or thereabouts, were discovered by Captn, Lucket and Colonel Butler within a few yards of the Garrison Gate, they had got be- tween them and the Gate before they were discovered, and upon Captn. Luckets ordering the Gate to be shut a number of them pre- sented their Rifles cock'd to his Breast, when one of the Justices of the peace began to Read the Riot act, they presented their Guns at him in the like manner, in this situation the Inhabitants exerted themselves and disarmed them without any lives being lost. A number of them ran off immediately, others were taken and disarmed, but refusing to give Bail, the Justices wrote their Com- mitment, but some how they made their escape from the under sheriff leaving behind them a number of Guns. * In this situation I earnestly request your Excellency to Com- missonate two more Gentlemen of this place, to try the Indian with- out delay, and if your Excellency and the Honourable Council would think proper, to send his Death warrant at the same time by way of Dispatch, it would sooner ease the minds of the people. There can be no doubt of his conviction. I was one of the Inquest held upon the Body of John Smith, and heard all the evidence. Since Smith Died, another of the Men wounded, named Benjamin Jones has also Died the eight or ninth Day after he was stabbed, the other two it is thought will recover. The Indian's name is Mamachtagwin, in English the Hurrican, the most violent and Bloody Catiff of the Delaware Tribe. I have the honor to be, with due respect and esteem, your Excellency's most obed. humb. servt. ROBERT GALBRAITH. MICHAEL HUFFNAGLE TO JAMES IRWINE, 1785. Dr. Sir - º since I wrote you last concerning the Murder committed by the Indians, we have had several disturbances here by the Militia of Washington County. Last Saturday about eleven o'clock, at Night a party of thirty Nine entered the Garrison & took possession of the Ordinance & demanded the Commanding officer Captain Luckett to deliver up the Prisoner to them. After some dispute & reasoning about the matter they went off in this party, whom that we Knew, Philp Ross, John Bill, Linett, Sellers, George Red- man. A second party appeared again on Monday morning a little after sun rise & took the Commanding officer prisoner & were marching him off, when through the exertion of the Inhabitants & five or six Soldiers he was relieved & Seven of the party taken prisoners & dis- armed three of whom to wit, Joseph McDermett, William Waughan, & Isaac Justice entered into Recognizance for their appearance to
Page 468
468 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. answer when called on—one Kennedy, Williams, & two Longs, were committed to Custody of the Deputy Sheriff Mr. Sample, while he was preparing to take them off they made their escapes. Col. Harmar on my application has sent to this place Captain McCurdy with a party of Men as a Guard untill we shall hear from Council (if it can be) I would wish a special Commission to be sent for the trial of the prisoner at this place & a Blank Death Warrant. The above named Williams is an officer of Militia, in Washington County and it appears by Testimony that he in a regular manner warned out the last party on a tower of duty. I also wish to mention for you to "inform Council that since I wrote you last, Craig & Bayard have brought an Ejectment by Mr. Brackenridge against Captain Luckett for the garrison at this place he requested me to mention this that the Honble Council may take order thereon & if necessary to give instructions to the agents con- cerning the same, he says that he has no orders from Congress for leaving the post & untill he receives such order, he is determined to remain in possession, the Indians lately have committed several Murders & Robberies down the Ohio River, one of the Men that the º wounded on the Reserv'd tract opposite this place is since eaol. I have the Honor to be, your very Hble. Servt. MICH. HUFFNAGLE. Pittsburg, May 27th, 1785, Genl. Armstrong, jr. MANAGERS OF STATE LOTTERY To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. State Lottery Office, May 31st, 1785. May it please the Council, We beg leave to inform your Honorable Board that on the 12th Instant we compleated the drawing of the Lottery. That 6369 Tickets being unsold were drawn at the risque of the Lottery. That 12 Tickets were given as gratuities, & that the remaining 3619 were disposed of at 4 Dollars each making the Sum of 14476 That the Prizes drawn by those 3619 Tickets amounted to 12170 The deduction from which being 1845 45 there remain to be paid in Prizes 10344 45 The Produce of the first Class is therefore Dolls. 4131 º . The strictest compliance with the Orders of Council as to the time of drawing this Class & the punctuality with which the Prizes
End of Section 157. Continue to next section or 
Section 158
Page 469
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 469 have been paid seem to have given general satisfaction and we are of opinion * short day being fixed for the drawing of the second Class will very much contribute to its success. We shall be ready to proceed by the 2d Day of August next if Council approve thereof. We have the Honor to be with the greatest respect your most obed. humb. Servants, M. HILLEGAS, . B. FULLER, - MATTH. CLARKSON. Directed, The Honorable Supreme Executive Council. CoL. Jos. HARMAR TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Fort McIntosh, June 1st, 1785. Sir i have the honor to inclose to your Excellency & the honorable Council a monthly return of this date of the Pennsylvania troops in the service of the United States. In consequence of the resolution of Congress of the 7th April last, I am daily expecting instructions from your Excellency & the honorable Council to discharge the men, and to reenlist for three years, such as are willing to serve—The reduction of the officers pay, in our humble opinion, is very parsimonious—The pay of the soldiers (provided regular monthly or weekly payments take place) is quite sufficient. I have the honor to be with the highest esteem & respect - your Excellency's & the Honorable Council's most h’ble & obed’t serv't, JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Com'd 1st A. Regt.* Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq.", president & The Honorable The Supreme Executive Council, Pennsylvania. Honored tº Gen'l St. Clair. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 473.
Page 470
# ;

Monthly RETURN of THE PENNSYLVANIA TRoops IN THE SERVICE of THE UNITED STATEs, 1785. Monthly Return of the Pennsylvania Troops in the Service of the United States, commanded by Josiah Harmar, Esqr., Lieutenant Colonel commandant, Fort McIntosh, June 1st, 1785. - - – - ="ºº" – Ranks file wº - Field. Commºd. Staff. Non com: complete. TT.T.T.T.TT|f||f|5 Tºlºlºg ºn 1 - - à l'É ||#5 #1.5; ######2 |## Infantry *#|##|g|5|3|#|s||3: ; #####, 3|E|. Companies. is a # ##!º:|3|2|+|3||5.15.313;|23 =3 |3|2|- ########################## ##3;|###################### 1 | 1 --- Capt. W. Finney's : 1 1| 3 || 1 48 2 55 114 Capt. D. Zeigler's, 1 1 4|2 55 1 62 Capt. W. McCurdy's, 1 1 2| 2 53 2. 2 59 2 9 Total Infantry. TT2"| 8 1| 1 || 9 : 1561 5. 2 176. Tº Tºl ºd Non Commissioned officers and offiºrs. * - Remarks. - £ ſº a H = E = - - = . . .3|-|3|2 #3 * - 3 Captain Finney, Lieutenant Doyle, (the Quarter Master.) and sur- Cap, Douglass's com-gl: ; ##|##|# # ſº [3] gº McDowell, are on furlough. Lieutenant Beatty, (the Pay Mºster) pany of Artillery, # 3 |z||5||= = 3.13 =2#.ále on. Command. - #1: H.E.E. 51: 5 3 Tºº : Lieut. Herbert is suspended from his command untill orders from * : * 33|E|E|33 ºf El- Congress or the war office,—no Chaplain is as yet a ointed.—Ensign º º dº º 1--> --> = .5 - E - - p 5 as yet app ---------------- – Penny acts as Adjutant pro tem. One private dead since last return. Present fit for duty. 1|1| 3 2 2 3 2/34 46-12 Sick present, 1 1 2 JOS. HARMAR, ------------ Lt. Col. Com'd 1st Am'rn Regt. Total Artillery 1| 1 || 8 || 2 || 3 || 3 || 2:35 48 -2
This page contains an image.
Page 471
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 471 SEc'Y ARMSTRONG To JAMES WILsoN, 1785. Si Philad'a, Secretary's Office, 2 June, 1785. lr i have the honor to inclose a copy of the Report of a Committee of the Gen. Assembly appointed by a resolution of the 8th of April last * to enquire into the state of the Inhabitants of Wyoming re- * specting the disputes & disorders subsisting there, with a number of papers to which it refers. I am, with the greatest respect your most obedient servant, JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. *. Directed, Hon. James Wilson, Esq. MoNs. DE MARBoIs To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1786. - A New York, le 4 Juin, 1785. Monsieur, J'ai l'honneur d'informer Votre Excellence qu'en conséquence de la nécessité où j'ai été de suivre le Congrès à New York, j'ai nommé mon frère pour remplir à Philadelphie les fonctions de Vice-Consul auprès de l'Etat de Pensylvanie : les résolutions du Congrès du 14. 7br° 1781 prescrivent la forme dans laquelle cette nomination doit être rendue publique, et en conformité à ces résolutions j'ai l'honneur de vous prier d'accorder au S. Pierre François Barbé de Marbois son Ecequatur en qualité de Vice-Consul auprès de l'Etat de Pensylvanie, et de vouloir bien en faire faire la publication dans les gazettes suivant la forme usitée. Je suis avec respect et une considération distinguée, Monsieur, De Votre Excellence Le très humble et très obéissant serviteur - DE MARBOIS. PRoPosALs FoR BUILDING PIERs AT MARcUs HooK, 1785. Proposals for Building & compleating Peers at Marcus hook of the following Dimentions, viz., The first Pear to be sunk opposite to Robert Moulder's wharf sixty feet by 26 feet at top, the space between it & Moulder's wharf 40 ft. sleepers to be laid over the space & plancked with 23 In. Oak plank. -
Page 472
472 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. The Second peer to be sunk 30 feet distant & opposite the first, 70 by 30 feet at top, sleepers to be laid over the space & plancked with 23 Oak planck. Third & fourth pears of the above dimentions spaces, & distances the same, also the sleepers & platforms alike. Fifth, Moulders wharf to be made 10 ft. wider on the south side. The whole of the work to be compleated in a workman like manner, with the three upper rounds of heart pine or white Oak Logs; Including, timber, Iron work, filling & every other expence attending the sº work; for the sum of Five thousand seven hundred pounds to be paid in specia, & in the following manner, That is to say, the sum of One thousand pounds, down, fifteen hundred pound, when the two Inside pears are sunk, fifteen hundred pounds when the two outside pears are sunk, five hundred pounds when the inside pears are raised to high water mark & filed accordingly, five hundred pounds when the outside pears are raised to high water mark and filed accordingly, & the Sum of Seven hundred pounds when the whole of the work shall be compleatly finished. The two inside pears, platforms & Moulder's wharf widened to be compleated on or before 25 day of December next ensuing. The two outside pears & platforms to be compleated on or before the 25 day of December, 1786. JOSHUA HUMPHREY, Jun.” June 8, 1785. Directed, The Board of Wardens for the port of Philadelphia. SEC'Y OF CONGRESS TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Office of Secretary of Congress, June 9th, 1785. Sir, I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency an act of the United States in Congress assembled for the relief of the officers, Soldiers and Seamen who have been disabled in the service of the United States during the late war. As the condition of many of these unfortunate men who have a claim not merely on the humanity, but on the gratitude and justice of their Country, demands immediate attention, I have the firmes: confidence that the state of Pennsylvania will take the earlies: opportunity of making the provision recommended in the inclosed act. Having received no answer to my letter of the 12th April last covering the acts of Congress of the 1st, 7th & 12th of that month * See Col. Rec., XIV. p. 474,
Page 473
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 473 relative to the raising a body of Troops for the purposes therein mentioned, I must continue my request that your Excellency would be pleased to communicate to me the steps taken by the state of Pennsylvania for raising the quota assigned, that I may be enabled to make report to Congress. With the greatest respect * I have the honor to be - - your Excellency's most obedient and most humble servant, CHA. THOMSON.” Directed, His Excellency, the President of the Commonwealth of Penn- sylvania. Journal of Congress missing, viz.: From January 1st, 1779, to Janury 1st, 1780. November 3d, 1782, to November 3d, 1783. June 1784, from page 314 to the Adjournment of Congress, Trenton. From the meeting of Congress at Trenton, on to the 2d day of February, 1785. OPINION OF HON. GEO. BRYAN, 1785. Philadelphia, 10th June, 1785. Sir, You were pleased to ask my opinion concerning the tryal of the Indian named Mamachtagwin, who is prisoner at Pittsburgh, charged with the murder of one, if not two, white men, whose names are not fully given; that is to say, how, where, & by what authority the Homicide should be inquired of and adjudged. The letter you put in my hands from Robert Galbraith, Esquire,t is so very bare of circumstances, that it will be difficult to consider the case with the precision it ought. Even the County where the fact was perpetrated, is not given: But if it be supposed that it happened within Westmoreland, another question arises, was it remote from inhabitants? For if it were, then the tryal should be in the County of Philadelphia; otherwise it must be in the proper County. By what you dropt about this matter, I surmise that it passed on the north or northwest of the Ohio, not far from Pittsburgh; conse- quently not remote from inhabitants, as the Act of 1744, (see page * See Col., Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 478. f See page 466.
Page 474
474 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 200 of Ross & Galloway's compilement of the Acts of Assembly of the late Province,) loosely has it. And I am clear, that if there be any doubt on this head, the doubt should be decided in favour of tryal by the Vicinage, which is according to common law. I am of opinion, that the Indian, if he demands it, has a right to a party Jury, half foreigners. W* Penn, the founder, in 1683, established something of this nature, in respect to damages done by Indians; - and I have in my memory some traces of a tryal formerly at Chester, of an Indian for rape, where six Indians were called in. The law, however, concerning mediatatem linguae, does not require that the aliens be of the nation to which the accused belongs. Your difficulty does not, however, arise upon the point stated & discussed already. It is rather upon the authority of the President & Council to issue a special Commission to persons who are not judges of the Supreme Court to hear & determine concerning this or other similar cases. The Justices of the Supreme Court, above two years ago, were questioned by the President & Council on this head, & I then gave my opinion in the affirmative, with reasons for it.* To this I beg leave to refer. There need little be added now, unless that it appears by the Act of 1744, above recited, that the judges of the Supreme Court were not, at the passing of it, supposed to be the only justices of Oyer, Terminer & goal delivery, competent to try capital offences. The practice was not unknown before the Revo- lution, & a capital punishment was inflicted at Bedford, since the revolution, by virtue of a Commission of this nature. M" Galbraith's Idea of sending up the death warrant before trial, is extravagant. But by the common law, the Court which tries should pronounce judgment & award Execution thereof also ; & the Aet for the advancement of justice, section 6*, enables the judges to award & order Execution to be done. The Reference to Council, & the Warrant from the honourable board for the actual execution, is but an usage introduced by a spirit of Clemency, & more suitable to the State of Pennsylvania formerly, when the Province consisted of three small Counties, than it is at present. It may be easily dispensed with by Council; nay the judges ought, upon proper cause, to disregard it. In England, a similar usage is confined to Middlesex, for in the other Counties, the judges direct the Executions, but on special occasions, respite till the Supreme Executive shall interpose, if it see proper. The Act for setting off the County of Westmoreland, directs that the courts for said County be holden in the House of Rob Hanna, which I suppose is at Hanna's Town. This should be the place of judgment, if it be not altered by some later law. - . It would be prudent to make the Commission (if Council see fit to issue one,) special to the very case, & to limit the power to the the tryal of the Indian now in custody, by name, & the homicides * See pages 17–20.
Page 475
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 475 already committed. The names, indeed, of the person or persons slain, should also be specifyed; but perhaps those are not transmitted. The above is my present view of this Subject. What I have said is rather hurried, as you wished for an early answer. Perhaps the County Courts of pleas & sessions, are more expressly fixed to Han- na's house, than the Supreme & Oyer & Terminer, for capital matters. I am, Sir, Your most obed. servº, GEO. BRYAN. To the honorable John Whitehill, Esquire. MANAGERS OF STATE LOTTERY TO CouncIL, 1785. May it please the Council : We have sold two hundred Tickets in the second Class of the State Lottery; the fortunate in the first, have generally reeeived their Prize Money, & want to know the Day when the drawing of the second Class will commence, before they will renew their Tickets. We beg leave to offer it as our opinion, that if Council should think proper to fix upon the seventh Day of September next, that a very large proportion of the Tickets would by that Time be dis- posed of. We have the Honor to be, with the greatest respect, May it please the Council, their most obedient, humb. Serv", M HILLEGAS, - B. FULLER, Managers. MATTH. CLARKSON. State Lottery Office, June 10, 1785. Directed, The Honorable The Supreme Executive Council. BIRTH OF DUKE OF NorMANDY, 1785. (Circular.) . Office for foreign affairs, 14th June, 1785. Sir i have the Honor of informing your Excellency that Congress have received a Letter from his most Christian Majesty, dated the 27th March last, announcing the Birth on that Day of a Prince whom he had named Duke of Normandy.
Page 476
476 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. As this Event adds to the Happiness of a King & a People who have given many important Proofs of Friendship for our nation, it must naturally excite that Pleasure, which generous minds always derive from the Prosperity of their Friends and Benefactors. I have the Honor to be, with great Respect, your Excellency's Most obdt. & very humble Servant, JOHN JAY.” Directed, His Excellency, the President of the State of Pennsylvania. PREs. DICKINSON TO FRANCIS MORALES, 1785. In Council, June 24th, 1785. Sir Ön receiving your Letter of the 22nd Instant, we immediately made inquiry concerning the Case of the Sailor, whose Discharge you have been pleased to request. We find that he has been convicted of an heinous offence, and sentenced to pay a heavy fine, but upon your sollicitation, we have unanimously agreed to pardon him, on Condition that he instantly depart from this State to some place beyond the sea, and that he shall not return into this State or any of the United States of America.f I am, Sir, your most obdt. hble Servt. Directed, The Honorable Francis Morales, Esquire. PREs. DICKINSON TO FRANCIs MoRALEs, 1785. Si Philadelphia, June 26, 1785. 1T, Mr. Thomas Shields a respectable Citizen of this State complains to me, that his Servant Alexander Wilson has lately gone from his House without his consent, and is now on board the Frigate under your command. This Lad has near three years to serve by virtue of a solemn Contract before a Magistrate, for which service Mr. Shield has paid a considerable sum of Money, as the Instrument of writing testifies * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 480. f Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 484.
End of Section 158. Continue to next section or 
Section 159
Page 477
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 477 and having been seen on board the Frigate by Mr Wield's, as appears from his Oath regularly administered. I trust that upon this Representation of Facts, you will give effectual Orders for the im- mediate Delivery of the servant to this Master. I have the Honor to be, with great Respect, Sir, your most obdt. Servi., JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Honorable Francis Morales, Esquire. PREs. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1785. In Council, June 27th, 1785. Gentlemen, Mr. Shields a Citizen of this State complains that the Spanish Frigate that sailed yesterday from this Port for New York has carried away his servant. Inclosed are a Letter to the Captain on the subject, his answer, Mr. Shields' Deposition, a Copy of the In- denture, & a Description of the servant. We are the more surprized at this Conduct, as at the sollicitation of Mr. Morales a few days ago, we released and gave up to him one of his sailors, who had been convicted of a heinous offence & sentenced to pay a large fine. We request that you will be pleased to make instant & earnest application to the Minister of Spain, for redress of this injury; and we confide in his Character, that he will take Care that Justice be rendered. I am with great Regard, - Gentlemen, your most obedient Hble. Servt., JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Honorable The Delegates of Pennsylvania. PREs. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES, 1785. In Council, June 28th, 1785. Gentlemen, We desire you will procure Directions to be given by Congress to the Commanding Officer at Pittsburg, that on his Removal from that Place he deliver up the Possession thereof to John Ormsby, Michael Wol. X. —21
End of Section 159. Continue to next section or 
Section 160
Page 478
478 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Huffnagle, John Proctor, Thomas Galbraith & Robert Galbraith, or some of the Citizens of this State. I am, with great Respect, Gentlemen, your most obedt. hble. Servt. JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Honorable, The Delegates of Pennsylvania. CoNFIRMATION OF FRENCH. W. Consul, 1785. Pennsylvania, ss. The Supreme Executive Council of the Common- wealth of Pennsylvania. - To all to whom these presents shall come, Greeting. Whereas, The United States in Congress assembled, on the 14th of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty one, did “Resolve, That untill the ratification of some Covention between “His most Christian majesty and The United States, concerning “vice Consular Power, every Vice Consul of His most Christian “majesty, shall upon the application of the Consul appointing him, “to the Supreme Executive Power of the State to which he may be “sent, receive the Exeguatur, in like form with the Exeguatur de- “livered to a Consul, mutatis mutandis, and thereupon the same “proceedings shall be had with respect to publication.” And the Honble. Monsieur Francis de Marbois, Consul of France for the State of Pennsylvania and Consul General for the United States of America having appointed the Sieur Pierre Francis Barbe de Mar- bois to be Vice Consul for the State of Pennsylvania and in Con- formity to the foregoing act of Congres, requested that the said Pierre Francis Barbe de Marbois may receive an Exequatur” accordingly. It is hereby declared that the priviledges, preeminence and authority belonging to the Character and quality of Vice Con- sul are due to him the said Pierre Francis Barbe de Marbois. * Given in Council under the hand of His Excellency John Dickin- son Esquire, President, and the seal of the State at Philadelphia this thirtieth day of June in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty five. Attest. Indorsed, June 30th, 1785.
Page 479
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 479 SEc'Y ARMSTRONG TO SEc'y of WAR, 1785. * * Sec'ys Office, Phila. June 30, 1785. Sir, In answer to your Letter of the 23d Instant, I have the orders of Council to inform you that it is with great Concern, they under- stand, that the Troops of this State under the Command of Col. Harmar are to be discharged by order of Congress, after the Communications made to the Secretary at War by their Letter of the 21st, of last Month, and that the Circumstances will not permit The General Assembly to be convened before the Time to which " they stand adjourned. I am with great regard, Sir, your obdt. servt. JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Directed, Joseph Carleton Esq., Dep. Secy., at War. CoL. Jos. HARMAR To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Si Fort McIntosh, July 1st, 1785. 1r, I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency & the Honorable Council a monthly return of this date of the Pennsylvania Troops in the Service of the United States. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem & respect, - your Excellency's & The Honorable Council's most hble. & obed. Servt. JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Comd. 1st. A. Reg. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson Esqr, president, & The Honor- able The Supreme Executive Council, Pennsylvania. Honr'd tº Capt. Douglass.
Page 480
# MonTELY RETURN of THE PENNSYLVANIA TRoops IN THE SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATEs, 1785. Monthly Return of the Penna. Troops in the Service of the United States, commanded by Josiah Harmar, Esq., Lieut. Col. Comd. Fort McIntosh, July 1st, 1785. Officers present fit for duty. - - Want'g to Field. Comm'd. Staff. Non com. Rank and File. Complete —. - : H - - - —: E - - +: 2 : o < | . Tº |.. Tº 5 5 * | . 33|_|#| |z|f|#| || |É|2|## ####### .## .#|##|z|###|3| |###: |É|#####. |3; ; Infantry Companies, # = |3|É ### > š. 3 : 3 |#### § 3 7% $.3 ă º º ########################## & |3|- a 5 ſo - |z|2|->|7|a = |Z Z ~ |5|F = 5 a 3: 5 1 1 1| 1 Captain Walter Finney's, 1| 1 1| 8 || 1 || 44|| 6 55 1|14 Captain David Zeigler, 1 1 4|| 2 | 54|| 1 61 9 Captain William McCurdy, 1| 1 || 1 2| 2 || 53| 2 59 || 2 | 9 Total Infantry. 1 || 3 || 2 | 2 1 1| 1 || 1 || 9 || 5 || 151 || 9 | 175 21 1182 |Qom'd Non Commissioned officers and 3 9" | ***** —l: - * | |#| |* 573 ||3: |#|. .# #|. #3°, É Remarks. #|##|É E|. º: # 5 ##| ||3: Lieutenant Beatty (the pay master) on Command. Ensign Arm- Capt. Douglass company of;|g|: ##|: |; à la 3 ##|E| strong on Furlough, -no Chaplain is as yet appointed. Ensign Artillery. 3. £ F|5|5|5 § 3 # 35 : |: Denny acts as Adjutant pro. tem. One waiter sent to Philadelphia § 3 |}|† : |3|5|2 = .5 ºz., 5 |P and discharged since last return, At the request of the Secretary T.T.T.T.T.I.I.I.I.I.I.T.T.T. at War, Lieut. Herbert who was suspended, is now restored, and Present fit for duty, 1 || 1 || 8 2. # 8, 2% 42 has resumed his command. 2 Sick present, 1 o 6 JOS. HARMAR, Total. TT : 2| 8] 3 2/35| 48 || 2 Lt. Col. Comd. 1st, Amr. Regt.
Page 481
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 481 JoHN NICHOLson To PRES DICKINson, 1785. Comptroller Generals Office, July 7th, 1785. Sir, According to the directions of the Hon’ble The Council, I here- with inclose the Copies of all The Accounts of Robert Morris, Esquire, which are in controversy, and that the supreme Court may have the fullest Information, I have also inclosed copies of the several papers herewith connected. - I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect, Sir, your most Obed’t & very Humble Servant - JOHN NICHOLSON.” Directed, To His Excellency the President in Council. TRUSTEES OF LOAN OFFICE TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Sir the Trustees of the Loan Office appointed by an act of Assembly, April 4th, 1845, are almost certain that unless further Measures are taken, no Money will be in the Treasury for Loaning the Fifty Thousand Pounds directed by the said act for that purpose, owing entirely to the neglect of many of the Signers of the said Bills of Credit. The Trustees therefore wish that the Hon’ble Supreme Executive Council would be pleased to order the persons appointed to sign the said Bills, to proceed therein as directed by Law. We have the Honor to be with great Respect your Excellency most Humbº Servº, GEORGE SCHLOSSER, ROBERT SMITH, * JOS. DEAN.f Directed, To His Excellency The Presid’t in Council. Indorsed, July 8th, 1785. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 495, 496. f Ibid. p. 496.
Page 482
482 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. PREs, DickINson To HENRY ANTES, SHERIFF, 1785. In Council, July 12th, 1785. Sir, At a Conference yesterday with the Honorable the Judges of the Supreme Court, they produced several Depositions representing your Conduct as very extraordinary & detrimental to the Peace of your County. We therefore think it our duty immediately, & in the strongest manner to enjoin your instant & effectual Execution of any process against offenders at or near Wyoming that has or shall come to your hands; & that for this purpose, and also to enforce due Obedience to the Laws of the State, you forthwith repair to that Place, where We understand, many persons are collected in a riotous manner, having injured several peaceable Citizens & threaten further to injure them. Your own prudence will dictate to you, how interesting your Behaviour on this occasion must necessarily be to yourself as well as to the State. I am Sir, y’r very H’ble Serv't, - JOHN DICKINSON.” Directed, To Henry Antes, Esqr., Sheriff of the Co. Northumberland. PREs. DICKINson To DAVID MEAD, 1785. In Council, July 12th, 1785. Sir, We have received your Letters of the fifth & seventh Instant, & i. examined William Wilson the person by whom you sent the ast. Yesterday a Conference was held with the Judges of the Supreme Court; and thereupon every Measure has been adopted, that was thought most proper for enforcing a due Obedience to the Laws. I am Sir, your most obed’t Serv't, JOHN DICKINSON,+ Directed, To David Meade, Esquire. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 499. f Ibid. p. 499.
End of Section 160. Continue to next section or 
Section 161
Page 483
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 483 HoN. ARTHUR ST. CLAIR To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Si Philad’, July 16th, 1785. lf, YHaving heard that the Agents for forfeited Estates for the County of Westmoreland are about to sell the Buildings in Fort Pitt as the property of Alexander Ross, an attainted Traitor, permit me to in- form you that no part of the Buildings which were left standing in that Fort at its evacuation by the British ever were Mr. Ross's Pro- perty. A Part of them belongs to me by Grant from General Gage and part to other People, and some buildings have been erected therein since it has been occupied by the United States. The Ruins, which consisted of the Materials of a very good House that was pulled down; the Revetment of Rampart and Parapet—a squared log Redoubt and a number of Piquets or Pallisades were purchased by Mr. Ross and the late Genl. Thomson, for I think the Sum of fifteen or eighteen Pounds, but during the Residence of the One and the Life of the Other, no Claim was set up to the Buildings that were on foot. The dispossing of the Houses by the Agents may embarrass the Owners as well as the purchasers, and for my Part I am not inclined to sell mine at all. Should Council desire it I will wait upon them to give fuller Information, and in the mean time have to request that the Sale may be ordered to be postponed. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obedient humble servant, * At St CLAIR.” Indorsed.—Copy to the Agents—acknowledge the receipt of their letter—they to postpone the sale of the ruins at Fort Pitt. Directed, - His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the State of Pennsylvania. CoL. Josiah HARMAR To SEC'Y ARMSTRONG, 1785. Fort McIntosh, July 17th, 1785. Sir, I have been honor'd with your favor of the 10th May, enclosing me a duplicate copy of the Resolutions of Congress for raising a new Regiment—Likewise with another letter of the 10th June, inform- ing me of the Requisition from the War Office respecting the num; ber of Officers to be furnished from our State. I have also received a Letter from Mr. Trimble, enclosing me, by direction of Council, a copy of a Letter from the Assistant Secretary at War, of the 23d ult., & copy of the Answer of Council thereto, for my information: By a Letter of the 23d June, from Major North, Inspector, ho * Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 498.
Page 484
484 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. requests me to order the troops under my command to be mustered by such officer as I shall see fit to appoint, as the time has so elaps'd that it has been thought necessary by the present head of the War Department for him to postpone his Journey here. In consequence of which I have ordered the troops to prepare for muster on the 19th inst. - Council may rest assured that I shall use every exertion in my power to keep the men together until the sense of the legislature can be taken upon the mode of raising their proportion of the new corps. The mens times begin to expire on the 19th next month— nevertheless I hope to be able to retain them in service until the pleasure of the legislature is known, and until I receive instructions from Council for re-enlisting them. Major North also writes me, “That the pay-master upon appearing at New York with the ab- “stracts for pay will receive in notes the amount due to each man “to the time they are mustered, and upon a Certificate sign'd by “me of the time in which each man's enlistment will expire, he “supposes that a Sum on account sufficient to pay them to the time “of their discharge would be granted.” - The name of Notes, conveys to the Officers an Idea of discounts- Twenty or five & twenty tº C perhaps. If Council can consistently interfere, they flatter themselves that they will take their own Off- cers and troops under their immediate protection, and either secure to them the promised pay, or order these Notes to be negociated in such manner as they in their wisdom shall see fit, to guard against depreciation. We learn with pleasure that Council are endeavoring to bring about a re-consideration of that part of the Ordinance of Congress respecting the reduction of the pay of the Officers. The dispropor- tion is so great that the Stroke seems to be particularly Levelled at me... Fifty dollars tº month will not support the Station. We would fain hope that an Alteration may yet take place. I have the honor to be, with much respect, Sir, Your most obedt. Servt., JOS. HARMAR*, Lt. Col. Comº 1* Am" Reg'. Directed,—(Public Service.) The Hon” John Armstrong, Junº, Esq., Secretary to Council, Philadelphia. Honor'd tº Win Duncan. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 516.
End of Section 161. Continue to next section or 
Section 162
Page 485
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 485 CLAIMS OF MESSRS. PENN, AND OPINION OF JUDGES, 1785. In compliance with the request of the President and Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, John Penn, (eldest son of Thomas Penn,) and John Penn, (eldest son of Richard Penn,) late Proprietors of Pennsylvania, have made, and now submit to their consideration, the following state of their respective claims and title to the Province of Pennsylvania, of which they were seis'd on the 27th day of November, 1779, when the Act of Assembly was passed, entituled an Act for vesting the Estate of the late proprietaries in the Commonwealth. First. John Penn (son of Thomas Penn,) states, that he, at the time of passing the above Act, had a right to, and was seised of, Three fourth parts of the Territory of Pennsylvania, as bounded and described in the Royal Grant, or Letters Patent, from King Charles the second to his grandfather, William Penn, the Founder and first Proprietor of Pennsylvania, to which he deduces his Title in the following manner: William Penn, by his Will, devised one moiety thereof to his Son John Penn, in fee; one other quarter, or fourth part, to his Son Thomas Penn, in fee; and the remaining fourth part to his Son Richard Penn, in Fee. John Penn, by his Will, devised his Moiety to his Brother Thomas Penn for life, Remainder to Trustees to preserve contingent remain- ders, &c.; remainder to the first, second, third, fourth, and every other Son and Sons of the said Thomas Penn successively, according to their seniority & priority of Birth, and the Heirs male of the Body of each and every such Son and Sons, with divers remainders over particularly specified in his will, remainder, ultimately, to his own right Heirs. Note.—John Penn, by his Will, makes his moiety chargeable with the raising and paying the sum of £6,000 sterling to the per- sons, and for the uses therein mentioned, which sum of £6,000 sterling has accordingly been long since raised and paid, and his moiety, of consequence, exonerated therefrom. After the Death of Thomas Penn, his eldest Son John Penn, under the Will of his uncle, John Penn, had a Title to and was seised of one moiety of the Territory of Pennsylvania, as Tenant in Tail Male. Thomas Penn being seised as aforesaid, under the Will of his Father, William Penn, of one quarter part of Pennsylvania, in Fee, in the the year 1751, married The right Hon’ble Lady Juliana Far- mer; but, before his marriage, he, by Deed dated the 15th of August, 1751, made between him, the said Thomas Penn, of the first part, The right hon’ble Thomas Earl, of Pomfret, of the second part, the said Lady Juliana Farmer, of the third part, and David Barclay & Thomas Hyam, of the fourth part, settles and conveys his said quarter ſ | | ! ſ 21+
Page 486
486 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. part in manner following, to wit: To the said David Barclay and Thomas Hyam, with all quit rents and other rents thereof. In Trust to the use of the said Thomas Penn, his heirs and assigns, till the said intended marriage should be solemnized, and immediately after- wards to the use of the said Thomas Penn during his natural life, Remainder to the said Trustees to the use, intent and purpose, that the said Lady Juliana should, after the death of the said Thomas Penn, take, receive and enjoy out of the annual Rents of the said Province, the yearly sum of £300–400—or 500 sterling, (but not less than £300 sterling, at all events,) upon the Events and contin- gencies therein mentioned, according as they might happen, during her natural life, in Lieu of her Dower, by four even and quarterly pay-ments; remainder to the use of the first Son of the Body of the said Thomas Penn on the Body of the said Lady Juliana, to be begotten in Tail male; remainder to the use of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and every other Son & Sons of that marriage successively, according to seniority and priority of Birth in Tail male, with divers other remainders over in Tail, remainder, ultimately, to the right Heirs of the said Thomas Penn. By a proviso in this Deed, a power is given to the Issue male, and male Descendants of the said Thomas Penn (the entail notwithstand- ing) to make and charge any provision, or encreased provision, for his and their respective widows, after his or their respective deceases, out of his fourth part in manner as there mentioned. And b another proviso in the said Deed, Thomas Penn reserves to himself a power to charge his said quarter part by will, with the sum of £3,000 sterling as a provision for his younger children. Thomas Penn accordingly by his will charges his fourth part with the sum of £3,000 sterling, payable to his two younger Children, as a provision for them, and charges it with the payment of the further annual sum of £200 sterling to his wife Lady Juliana, who thereby became entitled to receive £500 sterling a year during her life. Since the death of Thomas Penn, his son John has discharged all the above incumbrances, out of an Estate and Legacies given him in England by his Father. Thus John Penn, under the will of his uncle John Penn, became- seized in Fee Tail male of one moiety of Pennsylvania, and, under the marriage Deed of settlement of his Father, Thomas Penn, to one other quarter part in Fee Tail male. It may not be improper to remark and state here, once for all, That by Provisions for that express purpose made by John Penn, Thomas Penn & Richard Penn respectively in their wills, the person who shall be in possession of their several shares, under the said wills, though such person may be only Tenant for Life, or in Tail, shall have during such his possession a right to call in, collect, receive, and apply to his own use and Benefit, all arrears of quit rents, purchase money, &c., whatsoever, though they actually might
Page 487
PENNSYLVANIA ARCIIIVES 1785. 487 nave become due in the time of any of his ancestors, or other former possessor. - JOHN PENN, Jr. John Penn, son of Richard Penn, states and deduces his Title to one fourth of Pennsylvania, as follows, to wit. - Richard Penn being seised in Fee of the said quarter part, under the will. of his Father William Penn, by his will, dated the 21st of March 1750, charges the same with the sum of £300 sterling a year to be paid to his widow during her Life, by four equal quarterly payments, if she so long shall remain his widow, but if she marries, then, only with £100 a year to be paid her in lieu of Dower. He also charges his quarter part with £3,000 sterling, by way of pro- vision for his younger children. His quarter part he by his will devised to his son John Penn for Life, remainder to Trustees to preserve contingent remainders, and after the Death of his son John, remainder to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and every other Son & sons of the said John Penn, according to their seniority & priority of Birth, and the Heirs male of the Body of each and every such son and sons; remainder to Richard Penn for Life, remainder to the first and every other son & sons of his Body (as in the case of his Brother John) and the Heirs male of the Body of each and every such son & sons, with divers other remainders over, remainder to the right heirs of him the Testator in Fee. The said Richard Penn the Father, by a codicil to his said will, dated the 13th of July 1768, gives the whole £3,000 sterling, charged by the will on his fourth part, and intended as a provision for all his younger Children, to his son Richard Penn. John Penn the son, after the Death of his Father, accordingly paid to his Brother the said sum of £3,000 sterling with the Interest due upon it. - The said John Penn paid likewise to his mother the £300 sterling a year, out of the Rents and profits of the fourth part of the Province, until the Time of passing the Act for vesting the Estate of the Pro- prietaries in the Commonwealth, and since that period, and the loss of his Estate, he has continued to pay his said mother the same .# sum, out of the shattered remains of his private Fortune, it eing the principal part of her subsistence. JOHN PENN. In compliance with an act of his Excellency the President and Supreme Executive Council, dated the 10th day of July last, the subscribers have read & considered the respective claims of John Penn, jun’r, and John Penn, Esquires, late Proprietaries of the former province of Pennsylvania, also the last Wills and Testaments, & codicils thereto, of the Honorable John, Thomas, and Richard Penn, Esquires, late deceased, together with an Indenture of four parts executed by the aforesaid Thomas Penn, on his marriage with the Right Hono” Lady Juliana Farmor, authenticated duplicates
Page 488
488 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. whereof were delivered to us on Friday last; and thereupon we beg leave to report, (Judges Atlee & Rush being out of town) that the vouchers support the said Claims as stated. But we have made no Inquiry respecting the payments of the several sums charged upon the late province, to the Widows and younger children of the afore- said Thomas & Richard Penn, and can therefore certify nothing on that head. THO. M. KEAN, GEO. BRYAN.” Philadelphia, August 3d, 1785. REsoLUTION OF CONGRESS, 1785. By the United States in Congress assembled. July 27, 1785. Resolved, that the Secretary of Congress apply to the executives of the several states, for thirteen copies of the legislative acts thereof, since the first of September, 1774, inclusive: that one sett of the said acts be retained for the use of Congress, and that he deliver to the delegates of each state one sett (exclusive of its own acts) for the use of the legislature thereof. And the secretary is further directed to adopt a similar mode for procuring the acts which may hereafter be passed as aforesaid, to the end that every state being thus informed, may have the fullest confidence in the other states, and derive the advantages which may result from the joint wisdom of the whole. - CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. SEC'Y OF CONGRESS TO PRES. DICKINSoN, 1785. Circular. Office of the Secretary of Congress, July 28th, 1785. Sir, I have it in charge, as your Excellency will see by the enclosed resolve, to apply to the Executives of the several States for thirteen copies of the legislative Acts thereof, since the first of September, 1774, inclusive. The purpose for which these copies are desired, and the end to be answered, are fully explained in the resolution: And as the object is, not merely to procure information to the federal Council, but to establish a mutual confidence and good understanding among the States, and that each may derive assistance in the great work of legislation, from the joint wisdom of the whole, I rely with confi- dence, that your Excellency will be pleased to order the thirteen * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 502. † See Ibid. 507.
End of Section 162. Continue to next section or 
Section 163
Page 489
PENNSYLVANLA ARCHIVES 1785. 489 copies of the Acts of your legislature from the time above mentioned, to be forwarded as speedily as possible: And that you will make the necessary arrangements, that I may be furnished from time to time with the Acts which shall hereafter be passed. I have the honor to be, With great respect, . Your Excellency's most Obedient & most humble Serv", - CHA. THOMSON.” His Excellency the President of Pennsylvania. PREs. DICKINSON TO CoMMIssionERs on Bound ARY, 1785. In Council, July 29*, 1785. Gentlemen : - Several Considerations of great Moment, induce Us very earnestly to wish for the Accomplishment of the important Business entrusted to your Attention. We therefore embrace this Opportunity, by Captain Hutchins, of urging the prosecution of it with the utmost Diligence, & with all the Dispatch that is compatible with Accuracy in your Proceedings. We desire to be fully informed, & as fre- quently as possible, of your progress. I am, with great Regard, Gentlemen, your hble. serv", JOHN DICKINSON.” David Rittenhouse & Andrew Porter, Esquires. CoMMISSIONERS FoR TREATING WITH INDIANS, 1785. Sir, - I take the liberty of informing your Excellency and the Honb" Council, that agreeable to the Treaty held at Fort Stanwix between the Six Nation Indians and your Commisioners, on the 23rd Oct. last It was agreed that in addition to the Goods then delivered to the said Nations, an Obligation should be given to them for the Amount of One thousand Dollars, in such Goods as would bºst suit them, to be delivered at or near Tioga, on the Susquehannah, on the first Day of October next. A strict and punctual observance of every promise made to the Savage Nations being of great moment, and the Season approaching very fast when your Commissioners' Obligation will be due, induce * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 507. # Ibid.
Page 490
490 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. me to give this early hint to Council, that such steps may be taken in the premises as you shall deem expedient. I am your Excellency's most - Obº & very hbº. Servº, July 29th, 1785. FRAe JOHNSTON.” Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, in Council. LT. Col. Jos. HARMAR To PREs. DICKINSON 1785. Fort McIntosh, August 1st, 1785. Sir, I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency & the honorable Council a monthly return of this date of the Pennsylvania Troops in the Service of the United States. The troops have been mustered up to the 19th ult. and the rolls transmitted to Major North, Inspector. Enclosed, be pleased to receive an abstract of the muster. Altho' I can receive no instructions for recruiting untill the honorable Legislature convenes, your Excellency & the honorable Council may rest assured that I shall use every exertion in my power to retain the troops in Service. Their time begins to expire on the 19th instant. I shall take upon me to form an Enlistment for securing such as are willing to serve for three years, until your Excellency's further pleasure is known. The Ohio river at this Season is remarkably low, and usually continues so during this & the next month. It is now fordeable opposite the garrison—The Treaty to the Wabash therefore cannot possibly be carried on before the month of October or November next. I would not wish to be in too great a hurry in recruiting.—There are at least fifty men in the present Corps, who are not fit to be re- enlisted,—a little time would procure a Corps that will reflect honor to the State. If about five & twenty rifles could be obtained, to occasionally arm that number of Infantry, I should think it adviseable. I have ordered Ensign Armstrong to receive your Excellency's instructions, and when he has recruited thirty stout, able-bodied men to rejoin the Corps. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem & respect, your Excellency's & the honorable Council's most hble. & obed. Servt. JOS. HARMAR,+ Directed, Lt. Col. Comd. 1st Amr. Regt. His Excellency, John Dickinson Esqr., President, & The Honor. able The Supreme Executive Council, Pennsylvania. Honored tº Doctor Allison. * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 507. # See Ibid. p. 516.
Page 491
- PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 491 ABSTRACT of MUSTER Roll, 1785. Abstract of the Muster of a Detachment of the first American Regiment Commanded by Jos. Harmar Esq., Lt. Col. Comd. Fort McIntosh, July 19th, 1785.

- }|... i. - Expiration of the men's time. #####|s A. s !-- * | 5 |+ Aug. Sept. Oct. Dec”. Infantry Comp’ys. T. E. É. £1.5 || 3 | - - |->| 3 || 3 ||25 ||25 || 3 |1785. 1785, 1785. 1785. 24----. l - ar. Walt. Finney's 1, 2] 1 1. 41' 46 46 Cap. Walt. Finney’s 1 4|- 5 5 3| 8 3 1| 1 1 Total. 18|1|1|49. 55 -T-I-T-TTF 5 Cap. David Zeigler's 1. 4|- 5 a g 3| 3 2 45 53 53 3| 3 3 Total. |4 & 2 × 61 Cºv. Wm. McCurdy's 2 3 2 24, 31 31 1| || 25, 26 26 2, 2 2 Total. 24, 251 50 Total Infantry. 1, 9 s 5152175, 82 84 & 1 ###|##| # ă g|3|5|| 3 || Aug. Sept. Oct. Dec”. Artillery, ###|5||5||3 #335 sl: 3 1785. 1785 1785. 1785. Cºv. T. Douglass. 1|1|3|1|2| 22 30 30 1| || 2 || 12, 17 17 1| 1 1 Total. 3|2| 3 & 2, 35 4s 30, 17| 1 The above muster was made by me in the presence of Col Harmar. E DENNY, Ensign, & Adj. JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Comd.* * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 512.
This page contains an image.
Page 492
MONTHLY RETURN OF THE PENNSYLVANIA TR00Ps IN THE SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES, 1785. Monthly Return of the Pennsylvania Troops in the Service of the United States. Commanded by Josiah Harmar, Esqr., Lieut. Colonel commandant, Fort McIntosh August 1st, 1785. officers present fit for duty. -- Want'gto - - - Rank and File. complete. Comºd. Staff. Non Com. - – - -- ºf 5 ...; : I - - - gill. al; Tºsº || || |||}}#2 Lää Infantry &##|3|2|=|###|s||3|#5 |##|Égº |3: ; Companies. sºlº 3 § 3 ||3: ºf ####|s|| 33-##3 5 * * - = |* =#| || |*|3|*|†, #13; sº. 3 #2 * 3:33, #4 #########|#########| ||= 3 ºf #### H3555 5-3.5% -2355.57%|35 H =5 ##5 = 1 1, 1] 1 1 Capt. Walter Finney's, 1| 1 1|3| 1 || 48 2 55 114 Capt. David Zeigler's, 1 1 1 4|| 2 || 4912 8 60 10. Capt. Wm. McCurdys, 1| 1 2|2| 502 || 8 50 |2|| º Total, 1 |2| 3|2| 1|1|1|1|19||5||1471.4 s 174 21 133 ºãNon-cºmmºdºrs Twº on's and privates. * Remarks. - → - # 3. - - Captain McCurdy, Capt. Douglass & Ensign Armstrong are on fur- Capt. Douglass's com-141313|Hºlº 3 # lough. Lieut. Ashton, one Serjeant, one Corporal, one Bombardier, pany of Artillery’ 5||5|: g 3. 5 & # _: 3 two Gunners, seven Matrosses & eight privates are on Command at fort #. ####|= # É 3 = Pitt—no Chaplain is as yet apointed.—Ensign Denny acts as adjutant 5 * #335 sº-3 pro.tem.—One private Deserted since last return. HHH JOS. HARMAR, Present fit for duty, 3 2 1 1/22736-2 Lt. Col. Comd. 1st. Amn. Regt. Sick present, 1 1, 2 On Command. 1|2|| || 710 Total. ſº a 3.235 as Tº - - - -



This page contains an image.
End of Section 163. Continue to next section or 
Section 164
Page 493
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 493 ESTIMATE OF THE STEPS IN THE STATE House YARD, 1785. Estimate of the Steps in the State House Yard. To 3 Stone Steps, 33 Feet Long, One foot in the clear broad & 7 inches high, - - 4:31 16s 13 d To plug holes & Lead, . - - - 2 15 00 To Iron plugs, - - - - - 2 4 00 To portage, . - - - - - - 2 500 To fixing, - - - ... • 4 12 3 43 12 4} 12 13 13 56 5 6 N. B.-If the Foundation be sunk 3 feet deep & 33 feet long, Workmanship and all materials will amount to £16 17 6; If it be sunk 2 feet, the amount will be £12 13 1? ; If only sunk 1 F. 6 In. ; the amount will be £8 8 9. Indorsed, 1785, August 2d. SECRETARY OF CONGRESS TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Office of the Secretary of Congress, - August 4th, 1785. Sir, I have received the letter you did me the honor to write on the 1st. In compliance with your desire, I now send you the Journals of Congress, for the years 1779, and from the 3d November, 1782, to Nov'r 1783. The Journal of the Committee of the States, which fills up the vacancy from the adjournment of Congress, June the 3", 1784, to its meeting in Nov'r following; and the Journal of Congress from that period up to the 29th of last month inclusive, With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency's and the Honble Council's most obedient and must humble Servt., CHA. THOMSON. *> Directed, His Excellency, The President of Pennsylvania. .
Page 494
494 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. PREs. DICKINson. To WM. BRADFord, JR., ATToRNEY GENERAL, 1785. Si In Council, August 8th, 1785. 1T, - Upon the Receipt of your Letter of the 20th of Last Month, directed to the Secretary to make out as accurate a list as he could : form of the Commissioners in the several counties, ascertaining the Times at which they severally came into office. The list is now inclosed.* - You will perceive by the proceedings of General Assembly on the 16th of last December, that Negligence in collecting of Taxes has been general. - The particular charges against Commissioners for Breaches of duty, that most probably can be supported, are, for not proceeding against Collectors according to the several Laws; among other acts on this subject, we refer to those for supplies, passed on the 21st of June, 1781, the 27th of March, 1782, & the 21st March, 1783. Sufficient testimony it is presumed will arise from public Docu- ments & from the examination of those who have been or now are Treasurers of the respective counties. You will be pleased to issue process from either Court, as you may judge most proper, and to give such Directions for Bail as will not be distressing. I am, with great Respect, Sir, your most obedient Servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Attorney General. SECRETARY OF CONGRESS To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Office of Secretary of Congress, August 9th, 1785. Sir, The design of the letter, I have now the honor to write to your Excellency, is to re-call your attention to an Act of the 23d of March, 1784, which you will find enclosed, together with two other Acts on the subject of keeping up a representation in Congress. By those Acts your Excellency will perceive it is the earnest desire of the United States, in Congress assembled, that the several States, should not only keep up a constant representation by three members at least, but that there should be a uniformity throughout the union, in the commencement of the year, for which the Delegates arº appointed. Both the letter and spirit of the confederation, point * Not found.
Page 495
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 495 out the first Monday in November, as the commencement of the foederal year; Nine of the States in the union view it in the same point of light, and have made their appointments conformable thereto. I trust therefore that your Excellency will recommend this matter to the consideration of your Legislature and that they will adopt measures to comply with the wishes of Congress in this respect. I have the honor to be, Your Excellency's most obedient and most hble. Servt., CHA. THOMSON.” Directed, His Excellency, The President of the State of Pennsylvania. WAR OFFICE To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. War Office, August 9th, 1785. Sir, - I have the honour to transmit to your Excellency a resolution of Congress respecting the Corps under Lieutenant Colonel Harmar. The Legislatures of Connecticut and New York only have assembled since the requisition of Congress for Troops in April, and therefore there is a total deficiency of those to be furnished by Pennsylvania and Jersey. The whole number voted by Congress will be neces- sary to prevent incroachments on the public Lands and for the pro- tection of the Commissioners of Indian Affairs. I am persuaded your Excellency and the Legislature of Pennsylvania will be impressed with the importance of taking the earliest measures to retain as many of the best Soldiers under Colonel Harmar as possible. I have the honor to be, with great respect your Excellency's most obed’t servant, H. KNOX.f Directed, On Public Service, To His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. War Office. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., pp. 513, 516. f See Ibid. p. 517.
Page 496
496 PENNSYLVANLA ARCHIVES 1785. By the United States in Congress Assembled. July 20th, 1785. On the Report of a Committee to whom was referred a Letter of the 18th, from the Secretary at war. Resolved, That!Lieutenant Colonel Harmar, Commander of the Militia in the service of the United States, use his best endeavors to retain in Service the Militia of Pennsylvania under his command whose times of service are nearly expiring, until the Legislature of that State shall be in session and determine on furnishing its quota of Troops under the resolutions of the 1st, 7th and 12th of April last. (Signed,) CHARLES THOMSON, Secy. War Office, a true Copy, Jos. Carleton, Secy. 2. CoMMIssionERs on INDIAN TREATY, 1785. Sir, In pursuance of the Order of Council of 30th July last, I have made out a List of the Goods necessary to be furnish the Indians in October next w” I do my myself the honor to inclose. I am your Excellency's most Obedient Serv't, Directed, F. JOHNSTON.” To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr. A list of the goods to be furnished the six nations of Indians on the First day of October next. 8 pieces Blue Stroud. 20 pair 3 point Match Coats. 60 pair 23 point ditto. 25 yards Scarlet Flannel. 1 Piece Scarlet Broad Cloth. 100 White Ruffled Shirts. 50 Callico ditto. 18 French Castors. 6 Dozen coarse Combs. . 2 Dozen Ivory ditto. - 25 lb Vermillion. 50 Gallons Barbadoes rum. 56 lb Gun powder. 400 lb Barr Lead. 300 lb Tobaco. 1 Kegg pipes. 8 Pieces Gartering. Aug’t 10th, 1785. * See Col. Rec., Vol XIV., p. 515.
End of Section 164. Continue to next section or 
Section 165
Page 497
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 497 CHARLEs PETTIT TO PREs. DICKINson, 1785 New York, 12* August, 1785. Sir, Mess” Turnbull, Marmie & Co., having, by Memorial stated to Congress their Claims to the Land on which the Fortifications at Pittsburgh were erected, and prayed that the Possession thereof may be delivered to them, the Delegates from Pennsylvania took an early Occasion to mention the Desire of Council, communicated to them by your Excellency, that the Possession should be delivered to cer- tain Commissioners of the State whenever Congress should think proper to remove the Garrison & Continental Stores from thence. Such Removal will probably take Place shortly, tho’ no formal Resolution for that Purpose has yet been passed;—and as it is understood that Possession of that Post was taken on Behalf of the United States without any Treaty or Contract, it seems to be the Intention of Congress to relinquish it in the same Manner, in order to avoid meddling with the Claims of the State or of Individuals as to the Right of Possession; more especially as some have supposed that as it was formerly the Seat of a british Garrison, it became the Property of the U. S. by Conquest. To avoid Embarrassment on any of these Accounts, it will probably be abandoned, rather than delivered up as a Possession to any Claimant: I have therefore ad- vised Mess" Turnbull, Marmie & Co., to make their, Application to your Excellency & the Council on the Subject, presuming that the State Commissioners will be directed to take the Possession, on its being relinquished by the United States. I have the Honor to be, very respectfully, Your Excellency's most obedient & most humble Servant, CHAS. PETTIT.” His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania. PREs. DICKINSON TO SEC'Y AT WAR, 1785. In Council, August 13", 1785. Sir, We have this Day received your Letter of the ninthf instant, with the Resolution of Congress of the 20" of last Month. That Resolution, transmitted to us by the Secretary of Congress, We forwarded several Days ago to Coll. Harmer. By a Letter from him this moment come to our Hands, We are “assured that every * See pages 462, 464. # See page 495. -
Page 498
498 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Exertion shall be used to keep the Men together, untill the sense of the Legislature can be taken.” By your Letter of the 25* of April, We perceive that one Cap- tain & two Lieutenants of Artillery, & two Captains, two Lieutenants, & two Ensigns of Infantry, are assigned to this State. This is the same arrangement that was for it meditated last year; but upon our Representations was amended, & three Captains, three Lieutenants, & three Ensigns of Infantry were appointed by this Commonwealth, besides a Captain & two Lieutenants of Artillery. The whole Regiment, consisting of ten Companies & 700 Men, & therefore each Company of 70 Men, three Companies and fifty men are required from Pennsylvania, & only Officers for three Com- panies are allotted to her. As the Officers now Commissioned would chuse to continue in the service, We cannot think of dismissing them, & therefore hope, that on further Consideration, as the Resolutions of Congress this year are similar to those of the last, the same Arrangements will now be made, that finally took Place last Year. I have the Honor to be, with the greatest Esteem, Sir, - Your most obedient servant, (JOHN DICKINSON." The Secretary at War. PREs. DICKINSON TO CoMMISSIONERs, 1785. In Council, August 15", 1785. Gentlemen : From some Information We have received this Day, it appears probable, that the United States will barely relinquish the Posses- sion of Pittsburg. We therefore think proper to direct, that on such Relinquishment, you immediately take Possession of the Place in the Name and be- half of this Commonwealth, & that you be prepared for that purpose. It is our Meaning, that the Possession to be then taken by you, shall be without prejudice to the private Rights of property. I am, with great Regard, Gentlemen, your most obedt. servt., JOHN DICKINSON,+ John Ormsby, Michael Huffnagle, John Proctor, & Thomas Galbraith, Esquires, Commissioners for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 517. f Ibid.
Page 499
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 499 SEC'Y OF FoREIGN AFFAIRs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. (Copy.) Office for Foreign Affairs, 15* August, 1785. The Secretary of the United States for the department of Foreign Affairs, to whom was referred the Application of the Delegates of Pennsylvania relative to the conduct of Captain Morales in receiving on Board and carrying away in his Frigate, a Servant of a Citizen of Philadelphia, Reports" That he immediately laid the said Application, and the papers which accompanied it, before the Encargado de Negocias of his Catholic Majesty; and that he gave your Secretary full and express assurances that he would, without delay, take every proper measure in his power for obtaining justice and redress. (Sign'd) JOHN JAY. SEc'y of CoNGRESS TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. (Circular.) * Secretary's Office of Congress, August 22", 1785. Sir, I have the Honor to transmit to your Excellency an Act of Con- gress touching the disrespectful and indecent conduct of Captain Stanhope, as stated in a Letter of the 8”, from His Excellency the Governor of Massachusetts, and manifested in a correspondence be- tween His Excellency and the said Stanhope. - Although Congress have not thought it expedient to make this a public Act, they have nevertheless ordered a Copy thereof, with the Letters, to be transmitted to the Executives of the several States, for their particular information. - With great respect, I have the Honor to be your Excellency's most Obedient and most Humble Servant, CHA. THOMSON.f His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania. * See page 476. # See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., page 525.
Page 500
500 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. No. 1. By the United in Congress assembled, August 18th, 1785. The Delegates for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts having laid before Congress a Letter of the 8th, from His Excellency the Governor of that State together with a Copy of Letters from Capt. Stanhope, Commander of the British Frigate Mercury, to His Ex- cellency, James Bowdoin, Esq., Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and of His Excellency's answer to the two first of those Letters; the same were referred to the Secretary for foreign affairs, who reported thereon; The Letters and report are as follows. No. 2. Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Boston, August 8th, 1785. Gentlemen, Whatever concerns the Honor of one of the United States does in effect, in certain cases concern the Honor of all them. This general observation applies to the conduct of Capt. Stanhope, Commander of His Britannic Majesty's Frigate, Mercury, who ap- prehending himself insulted applied to me by his Letter for redress; in which letter, he “recommends” to me to adopt such measures as may discover the Ringleaders of the party that “assassinated him.” See Letter, No. 1. On receiving it, the Council being adjourned to a distant Day, I sent for the only Gentleman of that Board in town, the Hon’ble Mr. Adams, with whom I consulted on the affair. In consequence of the consultation, I sent Capt. Stanhope an answer the same day. The answer points out to him the only way of redress, which our Laws and Constitution admit; and which I myself in a like case, if I took any, must have taken. See Letter, No. 2. This answer, however, did not comport with Capt. Stanhope's high idea of himself, who seems to have thought that some special mode of process was due to a person of his importance. In consequence of that idea, and after two days consideration of the matter he sent me a Letter, which you may probably think, may be justly called a very insolent one : in which, (but in his own mode of expression,) he declares I gave him a positive assurance of affording him and his officers protection, that my conduct contra- dicted that assurance and his expectations; that it does not satisfy him, nor does credit to myself; and that he never received a Letter so insulting to his senses; and that it was an evasion of his requisi- tion; with a great deal more abuse both expressed and implied. See Letter, No. 3. The only part of this declaration it concerns me to notice, is that, in which my conduct is said to have contradicted the assurance I had given him of protection. This occasions a recurrence to two con-
Page 501
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 501. versations I had with him within a few days after his arrival here, from which time until the first instant, I had been, as I presumed, in the good graces of Mr. Stanhope. In one of those conversations, which were principally relative to the recovery of a favorite servant, who he said had deserted from him about a year before; he mentioned that he had been informed he should probably meet with some insult before his departure; and said he should rely on my protection. I told him he might depend on every protection in my power to afford him ; but that in this Country as in England, the Law is every man's protection, and that he would be as much entitled to it during his stay here, as any man in the Commonwealth; and in conformity to this idea, my Letter to him was written. - I have mentioned no more of the conversation than was needful to afford you some idea of the assurance he says I gave him of my protection. But in the course of it, I told him further, that he must know from his own observation, that in large sea port Towns, where there is a resort of all kinds of people and Characters, quarrels and disturbances freqently happened; and that the sea port Towns in England were remarkable for them: That he must be sensible the new regulations of Trade in England, which would finally operate to her own detriment, had disgusted the Americans in general and had induced them to take measures to counteract those regulations; and therefore it was natural to expect he would hear sentiments thrown out, which might not be agreeable to him. But that I had no apprehension any insult would be offered either to him or his officers. These observations and many more I thought proper to make, which a man of any discernment, and of the least goodness of dis- position might have applied to his own benefit; and to the exerting and promoting of good humour in the people, among whom he hap- pened to be. As he says my conduct contradicted his expectations, it is proba- ble he expected a Proclamation should have been issued. This measure was thought of; but I did not think the occasion required it. His conduct for three days after the affront, to the time of his going with his ship down to Nantasket on the evening of the 3d instant, manifested that he was under no apprehension of any attack upon him, for during that time he and his officers went about the Town, and in the Country as usual, and with as much freedom as any person whatever. Knowing that the whole of my conduct both public and private, had been such as merited at least a decency of Behaviour on his part, and sentiments very different from those expressed in his said Letter; I wrote him a short answer to it, which you will see in No. 4, to which he sent the reply contained in No. 5, justifying and repeating his insolence, and this finished the correspondence. I have only to observe, that it is conceived, the honor and dignity Vol. X. —22
Page 502
\ 502 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. of this Commonwealth, and through it the honor and dignity of the United States in general, are essentially wounded by the insolence of Capt. Stanhope towards the Chief Majistrate of the former; that, unless it be properly resented every British officer of every British vessel however insignificant will when ever an opportunity shall offer, insult the government of every State in the Union, and that a tameness under insult must, in the estimation of all foreigners effectually destroy the natural Character, and importance of the United States. If after reading the annexed Copy of Letters which passed be- tween the said Stanhope and me, you should be of that opinion you will please to lay the same before the United States in Congress as- sembled, that they may take such measures concerning it, as their wisdom and a sense of their own honor shall dictate. With the most perfect respect, I have the Honor to be, Gentlemen, your most Obedient servant, JAMES IBOWDOIN. The Honorable Elbridge Gerry, Samuel Holten, Rufus King, Esqr", Delegates in Congress for the Commonwealth ot Massa- chusetts. Copy of Letters from Capt. Stanhope, commander of the British Frigate Mercury, to His Excellency, James Bowdoin, Esq.", governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, with a Copy of His Excel- lency's answer to the two first of those Letters. N. B. The Letters from Captain Stanhope were on the cover of each of them superscribed On His Britannic Majesty's Service. To His Excellency, Governor Bowdoin, &c. &c., Boston. - No. 1. Mercury, Boston Harbour, August 1, 1785. Sir, I am sorry to be obliged to represent to your Excellency the con- tinued insults and disgraceful indignities offered by hundreds in this Town to me and my Officers, which hitherto we have winked at, as well as the most illiberal and indecent language, with which the newspapers have been filled, nor should I have troubled you now had Î not have been persued, and my life as well as that of one of my Officers been endangered by the violent rage of a mob yesteday evening, without provocation of any sort, I trust it needless to recom- mend to your Excellency to adopt such measures as may discover
Page 503
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 503 the ringleaders of the party that assassinated me, and bring them to public justice, as well as protect us from further insult. I have the Honor to be your Excellency's most Obed Humble servº, (Signed) HY. STANHOPE. Directed, To His Excellency, Governor Bowdoin, &c., &c., &c., No. 2: Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Boston, Aug. 1st, 1785. Sir, Your Letter of this date is now before me. It is a great misfor- tune that the subjects or Citizens of different Countries which have been at enmity, cannot easily recover that degree of good humour which should induce them to treat each other with proper decorum, when the governments to which they respectively belong have en- tered into a treaty of amity and sheathed the Sword. But you must have observed that disturbances arising from this source too frequently happen, especially in populous sea port Towns. If you have been insulted and your life has been endangered in manner as you have represented to me, I must inform you that our Laws afford - you ample Satisfaction. Foreigners are entitled to the protection of the Law, as well as amenable to it, equally with any Citizen of the United States, while they continue within the jurisdiction of this Commonwealth. Any learned practitioner in the Law, if applied to, will direct you the mode of legal process in the obtaining a re- dress of injury if you have been injured; and the Judiciary Courts will cause due enquiry to be made touching riotous and unlawful assemblies and their misdemeanors; and inflict legal punishment on such as by Verdict of a Jury may be found guilty. I have the Honor to be, Sir, your most Obdº hum Servant, (Signed) JAMES BOWDOIN. No. 3. (N. B. This was sent August 3d, P. M.) Mercury, Boston Harbour, Ag 2d, 1785. Sir When I had the Honor of applying to your Excellency to dis- countenance the disgraceful attacks made upon me and the Officers
Page 504
504 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. of his Britannic Majesty's Ship Mercury under my Command, and to afford us your protection, it was upon your positive assurance to that effect in their presence, I rested my hope. How much your Conduct contradicts both that, and my expectation is too obvious either to satisfy me, or even to do credit to yourself. For your Excellency must excuse me when I remark that I never received a letter so insulting to my senses, as your answer to my requisition of yesterday. I am, however, pleased in finding a much better disposi- tion in the first Class of inhabitants, whose assistance I am happy to acknowledge, as the more acceptable after your apparent evasion from the substance of my Letter; and however well informed your Excellency may believe yourself, upon the laws and customs of Nations in similar cases, allow me to assure you there is not one, no not even the ally of these States that would not most severely repro- bate either the want of energy in government or disinclination of the governor to correct such notorious insults to public Characters, in which light only we can desire to be received. I have the Honor to be, Sir your most Obed Humble Serv", (Signed) HY. STANHOPE. His Excellency, Governor Bowdoin, &c., &c. No. 4. Captain Stanhope your Letter bearing date the second instant was delivered to me by your Lieutenant Mr. Nash at four o'clock this afternoon. I hereby let you know, that as the Letter is conceived in terms of insolence and abuse, altogether unprovoked, I shall take such meas-- ures concerning it, as the dignity of my station, and a just regard to the honor of the United States in general shall require. JAMES BOWDOIN. Boston, August 3d, 1785, 6 o'clock, P.M. No. 5. Mercury, Nantasket Road August 3d. (It should have been August 4,) 1785, 3 past 12, A. M. Sir, . I am to acknowledge the honor of your Excellency's Letter this moment received, and have to assure you I shall most chearfully submit to the worst consequences that can arise from our correspon- dence, which I do not conceive on my part to have been couched in terms of either insolence or abuse, which is more than I could venture to say of yours. And however exalted your Excellency's station is, I know not of any more respectable than that I have the honor to fill. I have the honor to be, Sir, Your very humble Serv't. - HY STANHOPE. His Excellency, Governor Bowdoin, &c. &c.
Page 505
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 505 The Secretary to the United States for the department of foreign affairs to whom was referred a Letter of the 8th instant from his Excellency the Governor of Massachusetts to the Delegates of that Commonwealth in Congress report. That in his opinion the answer of the Governor to Capt. Stanhope's first Letter was perfectly proper, that the Captains reply was highly disrespectful, and being so, that such measures might have been adopted as the laws prescribe for asserting the dignity of government in such cases. He is further of opinion that two things are essential to the res- pectability of government. (1) That it should be always in the right, and (2) That it should never be opposed or ill treated with impunity. To these ends its own internal power, (in such cases as the present) is, or ought to be adequate, and therefore a recurrence to a foreign sovereign to resent and punish affronts to such govern- ment, committed under its eye, and within its jurisdiction, appears to your Secretary a departure from that self respect, which on such occasions should invariably be observed; except indeed where such indignities are offered by Ambassadors. If these principles are well founded, then it will follow as a necessary consequence, that no complaint or application for redress should be made by Congress to his Britannic Majesty on the subject in question. But as America and Britain are at peace, and in that sense friends, it is to be presumed that disrespect to the one from officers of the other, must be offensive to the sovereign of such officers; in as much as such conduct tends to irritate and alienate the good will of the other. Under this view of the matter your Secretary thinks it would be proper to transmit these papers to the minister of the United States at the Court of London, and to instruct him to commu- nicate them to the British Minister and to assure him, (1) That nothing but a desire to avoid encreasing the irritation which the late war may have produced in the two nations could have restrained the governor from resenting the indecent conduct of Capt. Stanhope in a severe and exemplary manner. (2) To assure him that Congress are persuaded that such Behaviour must give no less displeasure to his Majesty than it does to them– and that as all Sovereigns must in a certain degree be affected by the conduct of their servants, Congress think that the justice due to His Majesty calls upon them to lay this information before him. (3) That Congress flatter themselves that this instance of delicacy and moderation will be ascribed to its proper motives, and considered as evincive of a desire to prevent animosity and promote mutual good will. Your Secretary also thinks it would be proper to transmit a copy of this report to the Governor of Massachusetts and to assure him that Congress consider the dignity of each of the States as insepa- rably connected with that of the Union; and therefore that it shall on every occasion experience their care and attention.
Page 506
506 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, Resolved, That Congress agree to the said report. - Ordered, That a Copy of this report together with the foregoing Letters be transmitted to the Executives of the several states. Extract from the Secret Journal. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. REPORT OF COMMISSIONERS ON BOUNDARY, 1785. We the Subscribers Commissioners appointed by the States of Pennsylvania and Virginia to ascertain the Boundary between the said States. Do Certify that we have carried on a Meridian Line from the South-West Corner of Pennsylvania Northward to the River Ohio, and marked it by cutting a wide Vista over all the principal Hills intersected by the said Line, and by falling or deadening a Line of Trees, generally thro' all the lower grounds; and we have likewise placed Stones marked on the East side P. and on the West side W., on most of the principal Hills, and where the Line strikes the Ohio, which Stones are accurately placed in the True Meridian, bounding the States as aforesaid. Witness our Hands and Seals this 23d day of August, 1785. DAV. RITTENBIOUSE, TL.S. ---> ANDREW poRTÉit.” #: Penns'a. ANDREW ELICOTT, ſus.]] virgini Joseph NEVILL it.sjj "9" -- SURVEYOR GENERAL To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Surv. General's Office, Philad'a, 29th August, 1785. To His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President, and the Honble the Supreme Executive Council. Pursuant to an Act of Assembly passed the 12th day of March, 1783, for the sale of certain lands therein mentioned, for the pur- pose of Redeeming the Certificates of Depreciation given to the officers and soldiers of the Pennsylvania Line, or their Representa- tives, &c., and an order of Council of the 10th day of June, 1783.” I beg leave to report : That I have received upwards of One hundred and forty Returns of survey of the land appropriated as above, and daily expect more. I am, with respect, Your Hble. Servt., JNO. LUKENS, S. G.f Directed, - His Excellency, the President of Council. * See page 53, f Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 527.
Page 507
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 507 SEC'Y OF CONGRESS TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. Office of Secretary of Congress, August 29th, 1785. Sir, - On examining the files in this office I find that only five States namely Newhampshire, Massachusetts, New York, Maryland and Virginia have transmitted their Laws passed in pursuance of the recommendation of Congress of the 30th April, 1784. It is sug- gested that other States have complied with the recommendation, though their Laws have not been forwarded, I therefore take the liberty of enclosing the act and request the favour of your Excel- lency to inform me what your Legislature have done, and if they have complied, that you will be pleased to transmit me a Copy of their act that I may report the same to Congress. With great respect I have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedient & most humble Serv't, CHA. THOMSON.” Directed, To His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania. RESOLUTION OF CONGRESS, By the United States in Congress assembled. April 30th, 1784. The trust reposed in Congress, renders it their duty to be attentive to the conduct of foreign nations, and to prevent or restrain as far may be, all such proceedings as might prove injurious to the United States. The situation of commerce at this time claims the attention of the several states, and few objects of greater importance can pre- sent themselves to their notice. The fortune of every citizen is interested in the success thereof; for it is the constant source of wealth and incentive to industry; and the value of our produce and our land must ever rise or fall in proportion to the prosperous or adverse state of trade. Already has Great Britain adopted regulations destructive of our commerce with her West-India Islands. There was reason to expect that measures so unequal and so little calculated to promote mercan- tile intercourse, would not be persevered in by an enlightened nation. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 529.
Page 508
508 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. But these measures are growing into system. It would be the duty of Congress, as it is their wish, to meet the attempts of Great-Britain with similar restrictions on her commerce; but their powers on this head are not explicit, and the propositions made by the legislatures of the several states, render it necessary to take the general sense of the Union on this subject. Unless the United States in Congress assembled shall be vested with powers competent to the protection of commerce, they can never command reciprocal advantages in trade; and without these, our foreign commerce must decline and eventually be annihilated. Hence it is necessary that the states should be explicit, and fix on some effectual mode by which foreign commerce not founded on principles of equality may be restrained. That the United States may be enabled to secure such terms they have Resolved, That it be and hereby is recommended to the legisla- latures of the several states, to vest the United States in Congress, assembled, for the term of fifteen years, with power to prohibit any goods, wares or merchandize from being imported into or exported from any of the states, in vessels belonging to or navigated by the snbjects of any power with whom these states shall not have formed treaties of commerce. Resolved, That it be and hereby is recommended to the legislatures of the several states, to vest the United States in Congress assembled, for the term of fifteen years, with the power of prohibiting the subjects of any foreign state, kingdom or empire, unless authorized by treaty, from importing into the United States, any goods, wares or merchandize, which are not the produce or manufacture of the dominions of the sovereign whose subjects they are. Provided, That to all acts of the United States in Congress assem- bled, in pursuance of the above powers, the assent of nine states shall be necessary. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. CoL. JosLAH HARMAR TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. Si Fort McIntosh, September 1st, 1785. 1T, I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency & the honorable Council, a monthly return of this date, of the Pennsylvania Troops in the service of the United States. The time of one-half the men has expired, and notwithstanding, I have used every exertion in my power to retain them in service, until the honorable Legislature convened, such is their want of confidence in the public, respecting their pay, and their wish to go down the country, that I find it impossible to re-engage them here, according to my former expectations.
End of Section 165. Continue to next section or 
Section 166
Page 509
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 509 As Congress have been pleased to revise their resolutions, and to order that only one full company of Infantry shall attend the treaty, which is to be held at the mouth of the great Miami—I think it may be reduced to a certainty that I shall be able to re-enlist that number. Forty-Four are already engaged, and two Officers are at Fort Pitt on the recruiting service, who, when the men have had out their frolic, I trust will be successful. Enclosed is the form of an Enlistment, which is copied from the old one, excepting the alteration of the resolve of Congress, and the substituting three years instead of one. No justice of the peace being at hand, I judged it would advance the public service by administering the Oath myself. The bearer, Captain Ziegler, (a very deserving officer.) has orders to wait upon your Excellency & the honorable Council for recruiting instructions. After having re-engaged about Ninety or One hundred men in this quarter, I propose going to Philadelphia to complete the business. The men who have been discharged and are gone down- wards, will soon be tired of work; and I am well convinced, there will be little difficulty in speedily recruiting the quota of troops re- quired from our State. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem & respect, your Excellency's & The honorable Council's "most hble. & obdt. Servi, JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Com. 1st A. R. Directed,—(Public Service.) His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President, & the Honor- ble the Supreme Executive Council, Pennsylvania. GEN. W.M. IRVINE To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Si Carlisle, September 2d, 1785. 1T, Mr. Power, one of the deputy Surveyors of the donation land, called on me yesterday to inform me that he has compleated . the number of Surveys allotted to him within his district, which lies above the mouth of French Creek, and takes in Oil Creek. He says that he could not find land fit for cultivation near the Alegheny River, and adds, notwithstanding that he found a sufficient quantity of good land within his district; and that there is still a considerable overpluss left. His surveys are made on the Eastern branches of French Creek & west of Sugar Creek, (which you will be pleased to observe has been noticed in a particular manner in my 22*
Page 510
510 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. description of that Country.) Mr. Power also adds that Mr. Hender. son and Mr. Watt, are yet employed in surveying their districts, and that he believes they have proceeded in the same manner he did, respecting the distance of beginning from the River. I presume this information may be useful particularly if any alteration should be thought necessary in the present plan, which has induced me to trouble your Excellency with it. I have the Honor to be, with great respect, Sir, your Excellency's most obedient humble Servt., WM. IRWINE.” Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq. PREs. DICKINson. To WM. MACLAY, 1785. In Council, September 3d, 1785. Sir Relying upon your Integrity & Prudence we request you to take the charge of delivering the goods to the Indian Chiefs appointed at the late Treaty for receiving them at Tioga on the first Day of next month. Colonel Johnson now sends them to you with an invoice, and we are exceedingly desirous that they may be at Tioga in time. As you were a Commissioner on the part of this State, we wish you to avail yourself of the opportunity that will be afforded on this occasion, of reading the Treaty to the Indians as it is entered on the public Journals of the General Assembly, of explaining the Ex: pressions relating to the Priviledge of hunting on the Lands untill they are improved, of demonstrating the absurdity of construeing those Expressions so as to overthrow the strong words of Conveyance in their Deeds, and all Ideas of Faith & Justice in respect to a pur. chase for which they have received a valuable Consideration declared by them in the most solemn manner to be fully satisfactory and even generous—and of removing the Impressions made upon their Minds by false suggestions concerning the intentions of this Commonwealth & the United States, or respecting the late Treaty with Great Britain, by which the whole Country, up to the Lakes is ceded to these States. I am Sir, your most obed’t Serv't JOHN DICKINSON.f Directed, To Wm. Maclay, Esquire. " * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 529. # See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 531.
Page 511
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 511 PREs. DICKINSON TO DELEGATES IN CONGREss, 1785. In Council, September 7th, 1785. Gentlemen, We inclose Copies of two Letters from the War Office & of one from us, respecting the proportion of officers & privates in the federal regiment to be furnished by this State and of the late act of assembly on that subject. To the Confederation & to that Law we shall hold ourselves bound to adhere; & therefore we desire that you will immediately apply to Congress, & obtain their assent to the arrangement adopted, & execu- ted last year, upon which Pennsylvania supplied 1 Lieutenant Colonel Commandant, 3 Captains, 3 Lieutenants, and 3 Ensigns of Infantry, and 1 Captain and 1 Lieutenant of Artillery. I am with great Consideration Gentlemen, your most obedº Servº, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, To The Honorable The Delegates. JoHN BAYNTON, C. T., To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. S Warden's Office, Sep 8th, 1785. Ir, The Collector of Tonnage, with the approbation of the Wardens of the Port, is impelled by a Sense of Duty to represent to your Excellency & the Honble Council that for the more effectual & speedy Collection of the Duties of Tonnage to be levied on all Ships & Wessels coming into or going out of this Port, he conceives it absolutely necessary that such Instructions should be given to the Naval Officer as will prevent all Clearances of Wessels untill the Demands for additional Tonnage are secured. He begs leave to ob- serve, that the Demand for additional Tonnage arises from the fol- lowing Cause. That few Registers of Ships or other Wessels exactly specify their Tonnage; indeed, so great has been the Deficiency in some Instances, that on Experiment it has been found that the true Tonnage exceeds by One Half or Two Thirds what is declared in the Register; thus, unless properly attended to, greatly lessening the public Revenue. On Application to the Naval Officer for his Support & Assistance in the Premises, he pleads Want of Authority from the Laws of the State, at the same Time expressing his earnest Desire that such Directions may issue from your Honble Body as will be a sufficient Sanction for his Conduct in promoting the Collection of Revenue that may be justly due to the State. JNo BAYNTON. Directed, Collector of Tonnage” His Excellency, the President, & the Honble the Supreme Execu tive Council. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV, p. 534.
End of Section 166. Continue to next section or 
Section 167
Page 512
512 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. CENsus of BEDFORD County, 1785. A Return of the Male white Inhabitants between the Ages of eighteen and fifty three, in the several districts of the County of Bedford, as the same is now Divided. - Men. Bedford Township 230 Colerain Township, 85 Cumberland Valley Township, 66 London Derry Township, 101 Providence Township. 103 585 Brothers Valley Township, 230 Milford Township, - 109 Quemahoning Township, 93 Turkey Foot Township, , 90 522 Bethel Township, 180 Air Township, 130 Dublin Township, 90 Sherley Township, 145 545 Barree Township, * 75 Frankstown Township, 219 Hopewell Township, 113 Huntingdon Township. 96 *504 GEORGE WOODS, L. B. C. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, President of the Supreme Ex- ecutive Council of Pennsylvania. * Should be 503, according to the figures here, which correspond with document.
End of Section 167. Continue to next section or 
Section 168
Page 513
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 513 MANAGERs of STATE LOTTERY TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. May it please the Council, The Managers of the State Lottery beg leave to inform your Honorable Board that they have made the necessary preparations, and are ready to proceed to the drawing of the second Class on Monday next, the 19th Instant, agreeably to the appointment of Council. - That having found from Experience while drawing the first Class that a considerable number of Tickets were sold in the intervals of the drawing, altho' manifestly to the prejudice of the purchasers, & considering that by mixing Blanks among the Prizes, to be drawn with them a greater equality of Chance would be kept up & more encouragement given to adventurers, the Managers have made a rep- resentation thereof to the Honorable the House of Assembly which is now before a Committee but not reported upon. That but Seven hundred & ninety Tickets of the Second class have been sold in the city & the returns of a great number sent abroad are not yet made. The Managers therefore think it their duty to lay those Circum- stances of the Lottery before your Excellency & Honors & beg leave to submit to your Consideration the propriety of delaying the drawing for a few days untill the determination of the Assembly shall be known. A sufficient number of Blanks are rolled up & ready to be put into the wheels, the drawing will not therefore be delayed for them. M. HILLEGAS, B. FULLER, - MATTH. CLARKSON,” State Lottery Office, Sept. 17th, 1785. Directed, The Honorable The Supreme Executive Council. Gov. CLINTON, of N. Y., To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. New York, 19th Sept, 1785. Sir, A certain Francis Read lately charged with having committed a Roberry in this City escaped from the Officer who had him in Cus- tody and fled to the City of Philadelphia whither he was pursued, retaken and committed on the above Charge to the Goal of that City. I have therefore to request that yonr Excellency will (agreeable to the Articles of Confederation) be pleased to direct * Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 539. The drawing was postponed.
End of Section 168. Continue to next section or 
Section 169
Page 514
514 PENNSYLVANA ARCHIVES 1785. that the offender may be delivered to the Officer who will have the Honor of presenting this Letter, and who is possessed with the original warrant against Read, in order that he may be brought to Justice in the State where the offence was Committed. I have the Honor to be, with the highest Respect and Esteem, your Excellency's most obedt. Servant, GEO. CLINTON.” Directed Public Service. His Excellency, Governor Dickinson, Philadelphia. TRUSTEES OF THE GENERAL LOAN OFFICE TO PRES. DICKINSON, 1785. - The Trustees of the General Loan office of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania applies to his Excellency the President and the Supreme Executive Council for such a Sum of the new Paper Money to emit on Loan agreeable to Law as you shall see proper to rant them at this time, Philada. Septr. 26th, 1785. GEORGE SCHOLSSER, ROWD. EVANS, ROBERT SMITH+ : ... ºr REPORT TO CONGRESS—NATIONAL DEBT, 1785. By the United States in Congress assembled, September 27, 1785. The report of the grand committee being amended to read as follows: Resolved, That for the services of the present year, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, for the payment of one year's interest on the foreign and domestic debt, and as a provision to discharge the balance of the estimate of April twenty-seventh, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four, above the sum called for by the resolve of Congress of that Date, it will be necessary that Three Millions of Dollars, in addition to 649,880 dollars, hereafter pro- * See Col. Rec. Vol., XIV. p. 540. i See Ibid. 543.
Page 515
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 515 vided for, be paid into the common treasury, on or before the first day of May next, to be appropriated to the following purposes : Dollars. Civil department, - - - 122,331 00 Military department, - - 187,224 32 Purchases of Indian rights of soil, and the incidental ex- pences, 5,000 00 Contingencies, the expences un- der which head shall, on the 1st of Jan., annually, be transmitted by the board of treasury, to the legislature of each state, - - - 90,000 00 — 404,555 32 FoREIGN DEBT. 10,000,000 livres loaned in Hol- land and guaranteed by France, one year's interest thereon, - 74,074 00 24,000,000 ditto public French loan, one year's interest thereon, 222,222.20 174,000 doll's Spanish loan, one year's interest thereon, - - 8,700 00 5,000,000 florins first Dutch loan, one year's interest thereon, - 96,527.5 2,000,000 ditto second Dutch loan, one year's interest thereon at 4 per cent. - - - - 30,888 88 846,710 livres to the farmers general of France one year's in- terest thereon, - - - - 7,840 00 440,252 58 DOMESTIC DEBT. - Liquidated. 10,517,38.6 dollars—one year's interest thereon, - - - - - - 631,042.6 Loan office debt. 3,778,900 00 dollars issued to the 1st Sept., 1777, equal to specie—one year's interest thereon, - - - - - 226,734
Page 516
516 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 3,459,200 dollars issued be- tween 1st Sept., 1777, and 1st March, 1778, which sum is subject to liquidation, by the scale, but the interest is payable on the nominal sum, —one year's interest thereon, 207,540 5,146,330.8 dollars specie value of uncancelled loan office cer- tificates issued after the first of March, 1778, one year's inter- est thereon, - - - 308,780.6 ——— 743,054.6 4,823,724 dollars estimated am’t of certificates issued and to be issued to the lines of Mary- land, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia, —one year's interest thereon, - - -- 289,423.4 1,141,551.5 dollars, balance of the estimate of the 27th of April, 1784, above the sum called for by the resolution of Congress of that date, - - - - 1,141,551.5 Total estimate, - - 3,649,880. Deduction, - - 649,880. Balance to be called for, 3,000,000. Deduct for part of the Dutch loan applied towards a discharge of the last year's estimate, and which the sums required from the states last year will replace; and for loans now in the hands of the Dutch Commissioners, and hereby appropriated for the purposes of this estimate, 649,880 dollars, and there remains the balance of three millions of dollars, to be paid into the common treasury. The committee find that, for reasons stated in the resolve of Con- gress, of the 27th of April, 1784, there yet remains a moiety of the requisition for eight millions of dollars, and the whole of the requi- sition for two millions of dollars, to be applied to the use of the United States, before any new requisition ought to be made—They are therefore of opinion, that the states be called upon to make actual payment of three quarters of the remaining moiety aforesaid, on or before the first day of May aforesaid. The committee have not been able to obtain information how many States have complied with the resolution of February 17th, or that of April 18th, 1783, relative to a rule, for adjusting the quotas of
Page 517
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 517 the several states in federal requisitions.—They are therefore of opinion, that the several states which have not decided on that sub- ject, be again solicited to come to a decision thereon, and to send forward the same, as a measure necessary to enable Congress to effect a settlement of accounts with the several states, and to appor- tion to each a just quota of the public expences; but in the mean time, as the public faith renders it the duty of Congress to continue their annual demand for money, the committee are of opinion, that in the apportionment thereof, the quotas of the several states should be adjusted agreeably to the best information which Congress may from time to time have obtained on the subject. Upon this principle they recommend to Congress, that in the present requisition for three millions of dol-ars, the quotas of the several states be as follows, viz.: Dollars. New-Hampshire, - - - - - - 105,416 Massachusetts, - - - - - - 448,854 Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, - - 64,636 Connecticut, - - - - - - - 264,182 New-York, - - - - - - - 256,486 New-Jersey, - - - - - - - 166,716 Pennsylvania, - - - - - - - 410,378 Delaware, - - - - - - - 41,886 Maryland, - - - - - - - 283,034 Virginia, - - - - - - - 512,974 North-Carolina, - - - - - - 218,012 South-Carolina, - - - - - - 192,366 Georgia, - - - - - - - 32,060 3,000,000. Which sums, when paid, shall be passed to the credit of the states respectively, on the terms prescribed by the resolution of Congress of the sixth day of October, 1779, and together with the monies relied on to dischage the aforesaid deduction of 649,880 dollars, be applied in conformity with the several appropriations in the pre- ceding part of this report, giving preference according to the order in which they are stated in the estimate. As more than two-thirds of the sum called for is to be applied to the payment of interest on the domestic debt, the committee are of opinion, that the several legislatures may so model the collection of the sums called for, that one third of any sum being paid in actual money, the other two-thirds may be discharged by the interest due upon loan-office certificates and upon other certificates of the liquidated debts of the United States. And to ascertain the evidences of interest due upon loan office certificates, the holders thereof respectively, shall be at liberty to carry them to the office from which they issued, and the holders of other certificates of liquidated debts of the United
Page 518
518 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. States, to carry the same to the loan-office of that state wherein they are inhabitants, or if foreigners, to any loan-office within the United States, and to have the interest due thereon, settled and certified to the last day of the year 1784. Provided that the commissioner of the continental loan-office in any state, shall not on any pretence whatever, settle, or issue any certificate or certificates, for the interest due on any continental loan- office-certificate or other certificate of liquidated debts aforesaid, unless as hereafter provided, until the state for which he is conti- nental loan-officer shall have passed a legislative act, complying with this requisition; nor shall he issue any certificate, or take any other measure whereby the interest may be paid by the state in any mode not pointed out by this requisition; nor shall the commissioner of the continental loan-office in any state that shall have complied with this requisition, issue any certificate or take any other measure whereby a discrimination may be made by such state between the holders of loan-office certificates issued from his office, who are citi- zens of that state, and foreigners, or the citizens of any other state that shall have complied with this requisition: Excepting from this proviso, such state or states, as, by the books of the treasury shall appear to have paid their full quota of the requisition of the 30th October, 1781, for eight millions of dollars upon the former and present apportionment of the same, so far as to admit the commis- sioner of the continental loan-office in such state or states, to issue certificates for interest in the same manner as the commissioners in the states passing legislative acts, as aforesaid: Provided always, that any continental loan-officer shall issue certificates for interest as aforesaid, due on continental loan-office certificates issued from his office and belonging to foreigners, and also, to the citizens of such state as shall have passed a legislative act, complying with this requisition as aforesaid. Provided nevertheless, that where any state hath made provision by law, for paying any part of the interest of the domestic debt of the United States contained in the estimate on which this requisition is founded, the continental loan-officer in such state, shall, without delay, ascertain the sum which shall have been so paid pursuant to such law, on or before the first day of January next, and shall make report thereof to the board of treasury, and also to the legislature of such state, who may deduct from their quota of this requisition, and be credited in part payment thereof, the sum so paid not exceeding two-thirds of such quota, every state being held to pay in specie one-third part of the said quota, previously to the admission of such credit. And if any state shall have so paid in discharge of interest as aforesaid, a sum exceeding two-thirds of its quota of this requisi- tion such surplus shall be admitted as a charge against the United States in the settlement of the general account of such state; but if any interest after the first day of January, shall be paid by any state contrary to the true intent of this requisition, such payment shall
Page 519
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 519 not be admitted as a charge against the United States. And if any commissioner of a continental loan-office shall disobey, or neglect to carry into execution any resolution or order of Congress, or other- wise neglect his duty in the said office, the board of treasury shall suspend him from his office, and the emoluments thereof, and imme- diately report the reasons thereof to Congress; and the board of treasury are hereby empowered to appoint in the room of the commissioner of the continental loan-office so suspended, a citizen of the state in which the office is kept, who shall have all the powers and emoluments of a commissioner of the continental loan-office, until Congress shall finally determine respecting the suspension. And every commissioner of the continental loan-office, previously to settling and issuing certificates as aforesaid, for the interest due on certificates of liquidated debts, other than loan-office certificates, shall administer an oath or affirmation, or require a certificate signed by one of the persons whom the state in which the commissioner resides shall, in the legislative act complying with this requisition appoint, that he has administered to the owner or possessor of every such certificate, an oath, or affirmation, that the same is bona fide the property of the particular state in which the said commissioner resides, or of a citizen or citizens of the said state, or of some corporate body or charitable institution within the same, or of some person who is not a citizen of any of the United States; describing the certificate or certificates alluded to in every such oath or affirmation, in such manner as shall be necessary to identify the same, or as may be pre- scribed by the legislature of the said state. And for preventing the depreciation of certificates to be issued as aforesaid, the legislature of each state is required to provide in the act complying with this requisition that if on the first day of Jan- uary, 1787, the said state's quota of the said certificates so to be issued shall not be in the hands of the state treasurer or other proper officer, the deficiency shall be collected and paid into the continental treasury in specie, which, when so paid, is hereby appropriated to the redemption of such surplus certificates. Provided nevertheless, that any State which shall have obtained a credit in the books of the treasury for the full compliance with the requisition of the 4th September, 1782, for one million two hundred thousand dollars, with the requisition of 27th April, 1784, for com- pleting the payment of one-half of the requisition of 30th October, 1781, for eight million dollars, and also with this requisition, shall at any time after such compliances, be admitted to pay into the trea- sury of the United Staees any sum, or sums in the said certificates to be issued for interest as aforesaid, and have credit for the same, to be deducted out of the quota of such state in the next succeeding requisition ; provided that such sum or sums do not exceed one-half the said quota. That the board of treasury cause to be made a bank-paper, and thereon to be struck the form of certificates, to evidence the interest
Page 520
520 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. due as aforesaid, and transmit to the several loan-officers, a sufficient number of the same. That the said board furnish the several loan- officers, with such checks and instructions, as they, from time to time, shall judge necessary, to prevent counterfeited certificates of debts from obtaining a settlement of interest, and to detect counter- feit evidences of interest, and thereby to avoid receiving them in discharge of taxes; which certificates of interest being parted with by the holders of the principal, shall be deemed evidence that he has received satisfaction for the same, and therefore shall be re- ceivable from the bearer in lieu of money in the proportion aforesaid, in any other State in the Union, as well as in the State in which they were issued. That the State receiving such certificates and paying the same into the public treasury, with a proportion of specie as aforesaid, shall have credit therefor; which payment shall be con- sidered as a discharge of the interest due on the domestic debt, in the proportion that each State avails itself of the said certificates of interest. And where loan-office certificates issued after the first day of March, 1778, shall be presented to the loan-officer, they shall be reduced to their specie value, conformable to the resolutions of Con- gress of June 28th, 1780, and that specie value expressed on some part of the certificate, and the interest thereon settled and certified as in other cases. As a motive for the chearful payment of the sum now called for, as well as of the arrearages on that of April 27, 1784, the com- mittee are of opinion that the States be reminded, that Congress have passed an ordinance for the survey and sale of the western territory of the United States, and that the proceeds thereof will be applied as a sinking fund to extinguish the domestic debt. Future requisitions for interst on the domestic debt, will therefore be re- duced in proportion as this fund may be rendered productive. RESOLVED, That Congress agree to the said report. RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS—LOAN OFFICE, 1785. By the United States in Congress assembled, September 30, 1785. Resolved, that it shall be the duty of the commissioners of the continental loan-offices in the respective states, to receive and keep the monies arising from continental taxes in the different states, and to pay the interest due from the United States in the said states respectively; and that they hold all monies collected within the several states on account of the requisitions of Congress, subject only to the orders of Congress, or of the board of treasury. That they shall, agreeable to such mode as may be prescribed by the comptroller, make weekly returns to the board of treasury of the money they may receive on account of the United States, and also of
Page 521
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 521 the certificates which they may issue for the payment of the interest on the public debt, in pursuance of the acts of Congress. That they form accurate estimates as often as called upon by the board of treasury, of the interest falling due monthly within their respective states on loan office certificates and other liquidated secu- rities of the United States; and that they keep accurate and distinct registers of the principal sums due as well on the liquidated as loan- office debt. That in all their official transactions, they govern themselves by the acts and resolves of Congress, or the orders of the board of treasury, not repugnant thereto. That they make no appropriation of monies by them received on account of the United States, except for the purpose of the payment of interest agreeably to the resolves of Congress, without the express order of the board of treasury, and that they submit to the comp- troller, a state of their accounts quarterly, for examination and allowance. That the said officers shall not directly or indirectly be concerned in trade; and that previously to entering on the duties of their office, they shall severally enter into bonds to the United States of America, with two or more sureties; the principals in a sum not exceeding fifty thousand dollars, nor less than ten thousand dollars, and one or more sureties in a like sum, as may from time to time be directed by the board of treasury, having regard to the magnitude of the trust reposed in the several offices.—Further, they shall severally take and subscribe the oath of fidelity to the United States, and also an oath for the due execution of their offices respectively; certificates of which, together with their several bonds, shall be trans- mitted to the board of treasury, who shall cause the same to be recorded in the comptroller's office. That they shall henceforth be respectively allowed for all services and duties which are or may be annexed to their offices, by any acts or resolutions of Congress, or direction of the board of treasury, a sum not exceeding fiteen hundred, nor less than six hundred dollars per annum, exclusive of office rent, stationery, and other necessary charges, and the wages of such clerks as may be previously authorized by the board of treasury, who shall judge of the services aforesaid. That in the payment of all monies, they shall take printed duplicate receipts, agreeable to such form as shall be transmitted to them by the comptroller; one of which shall be forwarded to the board of treasury, with their accounts, in support of the payments made by them respectively. That they shall also give duplicate receipts for all monies received by them, in order that the several states may direct one of them to be forwarded to the board of treasury, who, upon the receipt thereof, shall credit the state for the amount specified therein, and charge the same to the officer receiving it. That it be recommended to the legislatures of the respective states, to direct their treasurers to transmit to the board of treasury, a
Page 522
522 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. monthly abstract of all monies paid on account of the several states to the commissioners of the continental loan-offices, distinguishing the dates and amounts of the respective payments, and the sums paid in actual honey, from those in interest certificates. That all the acts and resolves of Congress respecting the duties of the commissioners of the loan-office in the respective states, made previously to this date, be, and they are hereby repealed and declared to be void from and after the first day of January next, excepting the requisition of the 27th and 28th of April, 1784, the ordinance of the 20th of May, and the requisition of the 27th September, 1785. That all appointments of commissioners of the continental loan- offices in future, shall be made by the United States in Congress assembled, any act or resolution to the contrary notwithstanding; provided that such commissioners as are now in office, where the number does not exceed one in each state, be and hereby are con- tinued in office, subject to the acts and resolutions of Congress. Resolved, that the resolution of the 3d day of October, 1776, so far as it relates to the responsibility of the states for the faithful discharge of the duty of the commissioners of the continental loan- office, be repealed and made void from and after the first day of January, 1786. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. -- HoN. DAVID JACKSON TO PREs. DICKINson, 1785. New York, Oct. 3d, 1785. - Sir Í do myself the honor to enclose to your Excellency & the Honble Council three copies of the requisition for the present year which passed in Congress a few days ago. I dare say it will soon come officially thro’ the Board of Treasury, but as it contains matters of much importance. I thought you would wish as early an inspection as possible. I have the honor to be, your Excellency's obed. Servt. DAVID JACKSON.” Indorsed, 5th October, 1785. From the Hon. D. Jackson, enclosing copies of the Requisition ordinance of Congress. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr., President of the Supreme Executive Council, Philadelphia. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 549.
End of Section 169. Continue to next section or 
Section 170
Page 523
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 523 PLUNRET FLEEson To Council, 1785. May it please your Honors. Being unable to wait on your Honors by reason of an Inflamation in my Leg. I hope to be excused, in thus addressing you. Understanding that Mr. Edward Shippen" a Gentleman of superior Qualifications is Elected a Justice of the peace, conceiving the presidency of Court will be most proper in him, & that I may not stand in the way of anything conducive to the more Essential Service of the public, beg leave to resign that Commission which honours me with the Presidency of the Courts of Quarter Sessions of City & county of Philada. & Orphans court. I cannot just now lay my hands on the Commission but when I do shall chearfully return it. I am with the utmost Respect, your Honors most humble Servt. PLUNK. FIEESON. October 4th, 1785. - Directed, - His Excellency the President, & Supreme Executive Council. PRES. DICKINSON TO CHIEF JUSTICE AND OTHER JUDGEs, 1785. - In Council, October 8th, 1785. Gentlemen, Regarding the offices we hold, as bestowed merely for the purpose of enabling us to contribute to the Happiness of the People and persuaded that you view those held by you in the same Light, we do not doubt, but you will cheerefully afford your Aid, in carrying into Execution any Measures that have a tendency to promote so desireable an End. In going the Circuits you will frequently visit different parts of the State. While the Judicial Authority is employed in this solemn º Progress for the Punishment of Evil doers, We should be glad, that besides the Terror of legal Penalties, all the Influence to be derived from your Characters, and the Dignity of your Stations, might be applied in disseminating the best Principles & setting for- ward the most effectual Regulations for the prevention of offences. You Gentlemen, well know how vain are Laws without Manners. These cannot be expected, unless the strictest attention be paid to the Education of youth, and the Inculcation of a true Love and Fear of the Supreme Being. Under other Forms of Government, the administration may be * He was appointed. Col. Rec., Wol. XIV, pp, 548, 549.
Page 524
524 PENNSYLVANLA ARCHIVES 1785. well conducted, if the Chief Magistrates only are good, But, in Republics where the People themselves are to govern their Virtue is essential to their Prosperity. When the Individuals of a society are impressed with a just Re- gard for Industry, Frugality, Temperance, Morality and Piety, and of course with a proper Contempt for Habits & Dispositions opposed to these Qualities, they will rise to that simple, manly, dignified Character that amidst the Changes in human affairs most directly tends to ensure their own Felicity and the Honor of their Country. May infinite Mercy grant this to be the Choice and Condition of Pennsylvanians. -- It is our next Wish that you would be pleased strongly to recom- mend in the several Counties, the Establishment of Schools, Attendance at places of public worship, Provisions for Ministers of the Gospel, and Observance of the Sabbath. There are other Considerations of much Moment, which, as your sentiments will undoubtedly be received with great Respect, We desire also to have enforced. These are the Improvements of agriculture Roads and Streams, and proper Motives for exciting Attention to every Thing, that by producing local Benefits at first, may at Length operate in advancing the general Wellfare. I have the Honor to be, : Gentlemen, your most obedient Servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Directed, The Honorable, The Chief Justice, and the other Judges of the Supreme Court. RESOLUTIONs of CoNGREss, 1785. Tuesday, October 11, 1785. Congress assembled—Present as yesterday. On a report from the board of treasury to whom was referred a petition of Lewis Nicola and Richard Loyd, agents to the invalid corps and Hazens Regiment in behalf of themselves and the agents of Armands corps, the Regiment of artificers and the corps of Sap- pers and Miners. Resolved, That when the agents appointed to issue Certificates for the ballance due to the corps of the late Continental army (not appertaining to any State) shall have finally adjusted the accounts of their respective corps, with the Commissioner of army accounts, the board of treasury be, and it is hereby authorized to ascertain and report to Congress, such compensation as from the report of the said Commissioner, they shall judge proportionate to the Service of the respective agents. *
End of Section 170. Continue to next section or 
Section 171
Page 525
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 525 Resolved, That the certificates which remain undelivered by the respective agents above mentioned, to the individuals to whom they belong, be returned to the Commissioner of army accounts, with whom the said agents are to settle the accounts of their agency, relative to the deliveries made to the individuals aforesaid, and the Commissioner for army accounts shall transmit such remaining cer- tificates to the Supreme executive authority of the State in which the parties having a right to claim the same were enlisted, in the same manner as is provided for by the resolves of Congress of the 3d, of November 1783, and May 27 1785, in the case of Regiments appertaining to the several States. .. SECRETARY ARMSTRONG TO SECRETARY OF WAR, 1785. Sir, i have the honor to inform you that from the Resolutions of Coun- cil of the 8th of September & 20th of October, 1785, it appears that the following gentlemen were appointed to command the quota of Troops required from this State in forming the Regiment of federal Militia, agreeably to an Ordinance of Congress & a Law of this Commonwealth. Wiz, Josiah Harmar, Esq., Lt. Col. Commd. Walter Fenny, David Zeigler, Captains. Wm. McCurdy. Ercurius Beatty, Thomas Doyle, Lieutenants of Infantry. John Armstrong. Nathaniel McDowell, Ebenezer Denny, Ensigns. Edward Spear. Ferguson, Captain - - Joseph Ashton, fieutenant. }of Artillery. John McDowell, Surgeon. Richard Allison, Surgeon's Mate. I am, Sir, with much respect, your most Obedient Humble servt., JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y.* Philadelphia, Secretary's Office, 20th October, 1785. Directed, The Honorable Major General Knox, Secretary at War. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 550. Vol. X.-23
End of Section 171. Continue to next section or 
Section 172
Page 526
526 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES : 1785. SEC'Y ARMSTRONG TO HON. Joseph GARDNER, 1785. Secretary’s Office, - Phila., Oct. 21, 1785. Sir, Your late letter to Council, accompanied by a Report of the board of Treasury, was received on the 5th Instant, and referred to the Comptroller Gen. of Accounts. He has this morning rendered a statement of charges against the U. States, agreeably [to] your wishes, which I have the honor to enclose. I am, Sir, with much respect, &c., JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y.* Directed, Hon. Joseph Gardner, Esq., Member of Congress. GEORGE MoRGAN TO CouncIL, 1785. Prospect, October 23, 1785. Gentlemen, The Bearers, John & Thomas Killbuck, having resided in New Jersey & Pennsylvania during all the late Indian War, as Hostages for the Conduct of their Friends, Congress have been pleased to direct me to return them to their Parents on the Waters of Ohio. They will have the Honour to present this to you on their Rout through Philadelphia, & to request the favour of your Pass to Pitts- burgh, for themselves & Mr. Jonathen Brooks, a prudent & capable Person, I have hired as their Conductor. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Gentlemen your most Obt Serv", GEO. MORGAN. . Directed, To His Excellency, The President of the State of Pennsylvania. By John & Thomas Killbuck. W. P. CHARLES BIDDLE TO Gov. OF MARYLAND, 1785. Philad., Oct. 24, 1785. Sir - i have the honor to inclose a copy of a memorial presented to this board by Seck Keiser, in behalf of himself and thirty four otherh * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 560. See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 562—a pass was granted. See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 561, 569.
End of Section 172. Continue to next section or 
Section 173
Page 527
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 527. natives of China & Bengal, & part of the crew of the Pallas, India- man, commanded by Captain John O'Donnell. As the subject will require an enquiry into facts which from the seperation of the par- ties & other circumstances it is impossible for this board to make, we have thought proper to recommend it to the notice of your Ex- cellency, and to request these people may not be permitted to carry back to India with them’any well grounded objection against either the justice or humanity of these U. S. - I am, with great respect, Sir your obedient and most humble servi., CHARLES BIDDLE,” Directed, Vice President. Governor of Maryland. BOARD OF TREASURY TO PREs. B. FRANKLIN, 1785. (Circular.) Board of Treasury, Oct. 29th, 1785. Sir, Congress having by their Resolve of the 30th Sept.f last directed that the Commissioners of the Continental Loan Offices in the res- pective States should enter into Bonds with two or more sureties for the faithful Execution of the trust reposed in them, We have taken: the Liberty of transmitting to your Excellency the Bonds and oath of office which are required from the Loan officers in your State, in order that they may be Executed in your presence by Mr. Thomas Smith (who is appointed Commissioner) and his Sureties. We are induced to request the favor of your Excellency to judge of the sufficiency of the security from a Consideration of the deep interest. which the State as well as the Uuion have in the faithful Execution of this office. Should Mr. — Smith decline accepting you will, oblige us in keeping the enclosed papers in your custody till you hear from this board. We are, Sirs, your obed. Humble Serv'ts, SAMUEL OSGOOD, Directed, WALTER LIVINGSTON. His Excellency, Benjamin Franklin, Esq.,i President of the State of Pensilvania. - * Charles Biddle was elected Vice President on the resignation of James Irvine, Oct. 10th, 1785, see Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 552–3. This appears to have been the last meeting at which President Dickinson was present or presided. Benjamin Franklin was elected a “Councillor” on the 17th, and on the 18th elected President of it, and on the 29th formally elected Presi- dent and Charles Biddle, Vice President, and both proclaimed as such. Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 556, 557, 565. - See page 520. - 2 Benjamin Franklin was elected President unanimously, Oct. 18, 1785. Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 557.
End of Section 173. Continue to next section or 
Section 174
Page 528
528 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Resolution of CoNGRESS, 1785. By the United States in Congress assembled, November 2, 1783. On a report of the board of treasury, to whom was referred a letter of the 24th October, from J. Pierce, commissioner of army accounts : Resolved, That all persons having claims for services performed in the military department, be directed to exhibit the same for liquida- tion, to the commissioner of army accounts, on or before the first day of August ensuing the date hereof; and that all claims under the description above mentioned, which may be exhibited after that period, shall forever thereafter be precluded from adjustment or allowance; and that the commissioner of army accounts, give public notice of this resolve, in all the states, for the space of six months. CHA THOMSON, Sec'y. Gov. OF MARYLAND TO W. P. BIDDLE, 1785. Annapolis, 2d November, 1785. Sir i have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's letter of the 25th” of October last enclosing a Memorial of a number of Mariners of the Ship Pallas. I should be happy to give the redress those unfortunate men seem justly entitled to, but the executive of the state are not invested with any judicial authority to administer justice, nor indeed with any ministerial powers to facilitate the means of redress. Our Courts of Justice and the Magisterial Department are the only Tribunals which our Government authorizes to redress the complaints of Foreigners or Natives. If the representation of the Mariners be true actions will lie against Capt. O'Donnell on which they may obtain compleat justice. With regard to the lad suggested to be stole by one Hamilton the proper step for immediate redress would be to apply for a Habeas Corpus to one of our Judges or Justices, and this I would have done on behalf of the Father but neither your Letter nor the memorial mentioned the name of the one or the other. This affair shall be im- mediately redressed when the names of the parties are communicated. I have the Honor to be, Your Excellency's most obed. h’ble serv't. WM. PACA. Directed, - His Excellency, Charles Biddle, Esq., Vice Presid’t of the State of Pennsylvania. * See page 526.
Page 529
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 529 SEC'Y OF WAR TO PRES, FRANKLIN, 1785. - War Office, November 4th, 1785. Sir, I have the honour to inform your Excellency that Congress, con- sidering the difficulty of marching troops to the frontiers during the winter months, have thought proper to suspend the further recruiting of the men required by the acts of April, last, until the 1st of March, 1786. - The raising and subsisting the recruits within the States until that time would have been expensive, without any adequate good con- sequences resulting from the measure. I have written to Lieutenant Colonel Harmar and have requested him to convey this information to his officers. I have the honour to be, with much respect, Your Excellency's Most obedient Servant, y H. KNOX. His Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esqr., President of Pennsyl- vania. John NICHOLson. To PREs. FRANKLIN, 1785. Si Comptroller General's Office, November 5th, 1785. Ir, I do myself the pleasure of laying before your Excellency and the , Honorable the Council, a State of the Quotas of this Commonwealth in the Existing Requisitions of Congress, the payments that have been made on account thereof, and the balance yet due and to be discharged by the first of May, next. I am, with the greatest respect, Sir, your Excellency's Most obedient servant, JNO. NICHOLSON. His Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esqr., President in Council,
End of Section 174. Continue to next section or 
Section 175
Page 530
630 PEN (NSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. STATE OF THE QUOTA of PENNSYLVANIA, 1785. State of the Quota of Pennsylvania in the several Existing Requi- sitions of Congress, the Payments that have been made on account thereof, and the balance due Nov. 5th, 1785. Dollars Dollars payable in in Specie, Facilities, &c. Quota of the 1,200,000 Dollars, called for by Act of September, 180,000 1782. Ditto of the 4,000,000 Ditto, called for by Act of Apii, its+. ; 140,099 420,298 Ditto of the 3,000,000 Ditto called for by Act of September, 1785. } 273,585 136,793 - Amount required, 593,684 557,091 CONTRA Cr. By the following Payments made on account of the foregoing Requisitions, Viz. To John Swanwick, Receiver of Contin' taxes from the 4th June i;... . . . fij : 131,778% 4:161,914, 18, 5., equal to Paid for taking up and securing British Deserters agreeable to di- 2,3718 rection of Congress of March 1782, £889 32, equal to Paid Pensions to wounded Sol- diers, agreeable to Act of Congress 4,2854% of April 1782, £1606 184, equal to Ditto, do., £3,866 16, equal to 10,30948 Paid to Michael Hillegas, Contin' Treasurer, March 1785, 30,000, & May 1,400, } 31,400 Paid to Thomas Smith, Esq., *} ceiver of Contin' Taxes, Oct. 22d, 7128 s 1785. - 480,851*0
Page 531
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 581 * * Brought over, 480,85120 Paid Pensions to wounded Offi- cers and Soldiers between 1st Jany 6,68544 & 22d Sept., 1785, agreeable to Act of Congress of April, 1782, Ditto, do. 27.672 Ditto paid agreeable to Act of June, 1785, to the 5th Novem., 2,834 1785. 490,64745 Interest paid upon debts of the - United States by Thomas Smith, 166,5715 0 agreeable to Act of Assmebly, 21st 9 March, 1783 (in Interest Notes.) Ditto paid to the 5th Novem., 1785, agreeable to Act of 16 March, ; 248,44685 1785, (in paper Money.) Balance to be paid by the 1st May, - 1786, 178,6654s 66,4434.5 Amount required, 598,684 557,091 - Note.—The arrears of Pensions now due and to be paid before the 1st May next, agreeable to Resolution of Congress of 7th June, and Act of Assembly of 22d Sept. last, will reduce the above balance of our quota due in Money, very considerably. And we have already the means of discharging the greater part if not the whole of the balance due in facilities. - JN NICHOLSON, Compt, General’s Office, Nov. 5th, 1785. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1785. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Monday, November 7, 1785, A. M. A letter from his Excellency the President of the Supreme Execu- tive Council respecting certain natives of India, now here,” which was read November 5th, was read the second time, whereupon On motion of Mr. Fitzsimmons, seconded by Mr. Atlee, the House adopted the following, viz— ... Whereas it appears by a letter from the President and the Su- preme Executive Council, that there is now in this city a number of distressed persons, natives of China and India, who from their habits * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 569, 574,
End of Section 175. Continue to next section or 
Section 176
Page 532
532 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. and want of knowledge of our language are incapable of acquiring a livelihood or the means of returning to their native country, therefore Resolved, that the President or Vice President and Supreme Ex- ecutive Council be authorised and requested to administer such relief and support to the distressed persons aforesaid as their present situa- tion may require. . - - Extract from the Minutes, J. SHALLUS, Ass Clerk. TRUSTEES OF GENERAL LOAN OFFICE To CouncIL, 1785. The Trustees of the General Loan Office of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, applies to his Excellency the President and the Su- preme Executive Council, for such a Sum of the New Paper Money to emit on Loan agreeable to Law, as your Honors shall see proper to grant them at this Time. Philada, November 7th, 1785. GEORGE SCHLOSSER. G. ROW4 EVANS. ROBERT SMITH. *. SEC'Y OF CONGRESs To CouncIL, 1785. - (Circular.) * : Office of Secretary of Congress, Nov. 7, 1785. Sir, I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith en- closed two copies of the Continuation of the Journal of Congress from the 29th September to the close of the session. One copy for the legislative and the other for the Executive branch of Govern- ment. In conformity to the act of the 17th August, I enclose also a state of the representation in Congress from the beginning of Oct' to the first Monday in Nov',” and have to request the favour of your Excellency to lay it before your Legislature. - With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedient & most humble servº, t - CHA. THOMSON. Directed, His Excellency, The President of the Ex. Council of Pennsyl- sylvania. * Not found,
End of Section 176. Continue to next section or 
Section 177
Page 533
PENNSYLVANIA. ARCHIVES 1785. 583. * . PREs. OF CouncIL TO ROAD. CoMMISSIONERs, 1785. Gentlemen, * Philadelphia, Nov. 9th, 1785. Under the enclosed law & appointment of council you or any two of you will meet on the 1st day of December next at Miller's spring in the county of Cumberland, & thence proceed, “to survey & “lay out (or mark) a State highway in as direct & straight a manner “as the circumstances of the country and situation of the ground “will admit, to Pittsburg in the county of Westmoreland which “Highway shall throughout the whole length of the same (except in “the town of Bedford) be of the breadth of 60 feet,” & from time to time transmit a report of your proceedings with a draft of your road as far as you have carried it, to this Board, particularly noting “tho more rugged & least habitable parts of the Country” thro' which you proceed, by announcing the name of the Township or such other distinction, as will best enable Council to comply with the wishes of the House in directing the future labor & expence of Government upon it. In executing this trust, it will be necessary to employ a Surveyor Chain carrier & other assistants. Council rely upon your getting these on the best possible terms for the State, & that more will not be engaged than will be necessary to the accuracy & dispatch with which it is expected you will perform this business. Directed, - James Smith, John Boggs, & Francis Selvers, Esquires. Com- missioners for laying out a road from Millersburg to Pittsburg. LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH TO SEC'Y ARMSTRONG, 1785. Si Philadelphia, Nov. 9th, 1785. Ir, In obedience to the request of Council communicated to me in your note of yesterday, I have examined the state of the East India seamen now with me. There are thirty-one of them in Philadelphia greatest part of them lodged in a house of mine where I placed them from motives of humanity, and have advanced to their necessities to the amount of forty shillings in cash and provisions. One of them being sick is removed to the Pennsylvania Hospital. They report themselves destitute of money and not clothed for the present and approaching season wanting shoes, stockings, Jackets and Trowsers; some of them have outside coats or Frocks of woolen- cloth, but their under cloths are only of Cotton and many without any other covering but a Calico kind of frock, they have no beding or covering of that kind, nor wood to dress their victuals with, the rooms they are in at present are inconvenient to them haveing but 23+
Page 534
534 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. one fire-place and no outlet or yard, and of too much value to me to be long occupied by so large a family and without the prospect of a compensation equal to the rent they were set for at the time I took these unhappy people in. Since I was with Council on their behalf I waited on Capt. Truxton to satisfy myself as to the terms he would carry them to India for, he says Forty Guineas tº man is his lowest price. As Capt. Green in Robert Morris's employ is soon to sail for that Country, I think it probable he might be prevailed upon to take them for a lower freight. Hoping the Honourable Council will take their unhappy situation into immediate consideration. I am with great regard, Your most obedient servant, LEWI HOLLINGSWORTH." Directed, John Armstrong, Esquire, Present. ELECTION OF DELEGATES TO CONGRESS BY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1785. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Friday, November 11, 1785, A. M. Agreeably to the order of the day the House proceeded to the election of Delegates to represent this State in the Congress of the United States, and the ballots being taken it appeared that the Honorable Charles Pettit, John Bayard, Arthur St. Clair, William Henry of Lancaster, and James Wilson, Esquires, were duly elected. Extract from the Minutes. J. SHALLUS,i Ass’t Clerk. ELECTION OF TREASURER BY GENERAL Assembly, 1785. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, 1785 Saturday, November 12, 1785, A. M. Agreeably to the order of the day the House proceeded to the election of a Treasurer of this State for the present year, and the ballots being taken it appeared that David Rittenhouse, Esquire, was unanimously Elected, Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk. * See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV. p. 574. t See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 577.
End of Section 177. Continue to next section or 
Section 178
Page 535
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVEs 1185. 535 JAMES PEARson. To CouncIL,-STATE HOUSE, 1785. To the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council of the Com- monwealth of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, Those repairs of the State house, that are already done with the preparations for finishing other parts of the work amount to near Twelve hundred pounds. In these accounts are included the Cost of the screen, Venetian Blinds, and sundry other work done in the Council Chamber, also the alterations and improvements in the Office of the Comptroller General and Master of the Rolls, which are not included in the Estimates (amounting to £1250) reported to the Honble. House of Assembly. The money I have received by order of your Honble. Board on acct, for repairing the State house is nine hundred and ninety pounds. Therefore request of the Honble Council, that they will order me the additional sum of Two hundred pounds to pay the debts already contracted and make such repairs as remain unfinished. and oblige, your hble. Servant, JAMES PEARSON.” Indorsed, Philada. November 12th, 1785. SEC'y of CONGRESs To PREs. FRANKLIN, 1785. Si Office of Sec'y of Congress, Nov. 14th, 1785. Ir, It appearing necessary that a period should be fixed to the final adjustment of all claims against the United States for service per- formed by the Army and that from the nature of such claims they cannot be so properly investigated by any other officer as by the present Commissioner, who has nearly closed the lineal settlement, The United States in Congress assembled on the 2d Instant have been pleased to pass the inclosed resolution limiting the time for exhibiting such claims, to the first of August next, and have directed the Commissioner of Army accounts to give public notice thereof in all the States for the space of six months. With great respect, I have the honor to be, your Excellency's most obedient, & most Humbl. Servl. CHA. THOMSON. Directed, His Excellency, The President of Pennsylvania. * Col. Rec, Vol. XIV, p. 580.
End of Section 178. Continue to next section or 
Section 179
Page 536
536 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. John PIERCE TO PREs. FRANKLIN, 1785. New York, November 15th, 1785 Sir, I do myself the honor to enclose you a resolution of Congress directing me to deliver to the order of the Supreme executive of each State such Certificates as shall remain unissued belonging to the Corps not appertaining to any Line and as several of the agents of these Corps have made a settlement with me and deposited Cer- tificates belonging to Inhabitants of the State of Pennsylvania, I am to request that some person may be empowered to receive the same from my hands. I am, with great respect, your Excellency's most obedient Servt. JNO PIERCE, P. M. G.” Directed, His Excellency, Benjamin Franklin, Esquire. LAND OFFICE TO PREs. FRANKLIN, 1785. His Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq’r, President in Council. Sir, The instructions which we have heretofore received from Council respecting the Sale of the Depreciation Lands, are silent with regard to the most eligible mode to be adopted—we therefore beg leave to submit to Council whether we should sell these Lands by the acre or by the Tract; in all probability the Commonwealth wou'd derive advantages from selling them by the acre, this however we submit to our direction. The City Auctioneer has suggested to us, that it appears to him his province to sell these Lands, agreeably to the laws under which he acts, whether this shall be the case or we must employ Cryers and other necessary persons to negociate this business we also beg leave to submit to your Hon’ble Body—In case we shou'd be authorized to employ proper persons,’tis likely the expences incurred will not be less than if conducted thro’ the channel of the auctioneer. With regard to the mode of compleating the purchasers Titles, the Law is likewise silent, we therefore submit to the consideration of Council whether it wou'd be proper to issue a warrant directing a return of Survey to be made of each particular Tract previous to the granting of a Patent. We shall be extremely happy either to receive the instructions of * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 582.
End of Section 179. Continue to next section or 
Section 180
Page 537
PENNSYLVANIA. ARCHIVES 1785. 537 your Excellency and Council, or confer with a few members of your Hon’ble Body upon these points. We have the honor &c., DAVID KENNEDY, FRAS. JOHNSTON. Philad'a, 15th Novº, 1785. Directed, His Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq., in Council. Present. SEC'Y ARMSTRONG TO LAND OFFICE, 1785. Secretary's Office, 18th Nov., 1785. Gentlemen, - In reply to your letter of the 15th Instant I am directed to in- form you 1st, that it is the desire of Council that the depreciation land should be sold by the acre. 2d, that the City Auctioneer be employed to sell them. & 3d, that no warrant directing a Return of Survey should issue. I am with much regard, Gent., your ob. & very h’ble Serv't, JOHN ARMSTRONG. Sec'y of CoNGRESS To PREs. OF COUNCIL, 1785. *" Office of Secretary of Congress, November 18th, 1785. Sir, ... I am sorry to inform your Excellency that, nothwithstanding it seems to be the intention of the Confederation that all the States should punctually assemble in Congress on the first Monday in November, there are yet but five states represented namely, Massa- chusetts, New York, New Jersey, Maryland and South Carolina, and one member attending from Georgia. The late packets from Europe have, I understand, brought dis- patches which demand the immediate and attentive consideration of Congress, I beg leave to transmit to your Excellency a Copy of a letter which I have just received from the Secretary for foreign affairs and hope you will be pleased to urge the delegates for your state to come forward as speedily as possible. With the greatest respect I have the Honor to be your Excellency's most obed’t and most humble serv't, Directed, CHA. THOMSON. His Excellency the President of Pensylvania.
Page 538
538. PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. SEC'Y OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS TO PREs. OF CouncIL, 1785. Copy. Office for foreign affairs, 18th Nov’r, 1785. Dear Sir, The season when the Legislatures usually meet to do business is at hand. It is highly probable that Congress will find it expedient to call their attention to certain objects of general concern, and particularly to some which the present state of our foreign affairs present. The late advices I have received from Europe demand the attentive consideration of Congress, and in my opinion will give occasion to recommendations to the States, and other measures which should not be delayed. Considering the time unavoidably consumed by deliberative bodies in maturing their acts, it is to be regretted that a sufficient number of States to proceed to every kind of business within the powers of Congress are not now represented. Communications to the States for the purpose of accelerating their representation in Congress fall more properly within your depart- ment than mine. I therefore think it my duty to give you these hints, that your letters to the States on that subject may impress them more strongly with the necessity of their providing for their being speedily, fully, and constantly represented in Congress. I am &c., (signed,) JOHN JAY. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1785. State of Pennsylvania in General Assembly, Friday, November 18, 1785, A. M. - - The report of the committee read yesterday, respecting the Inland Navigation of this State, was read the second time and adopted as follows, viz: The committee upon the Inland Navigation report: That in their opinion a revision of any of the Acts for Improving the navigation of the river Susquehanna as a measure to influence the concurrence of the State of Maryland with the States of Dela- ware and Pennsylvania, in opening a navigable communication between the two bays of Chesapeak and Delaware will be premature until that State shall discover itself indisposed thereto, which as far as they stand informed will not probably be the case, the committee rather propose that a negociation be entered into with the States of Maryland and Delaware upon the ground of reciprocal advantages to be derived, to all the States concerned, from a communication between the said two Bays as well as from an effectual improvement of the navigation of the river Susquehanna and its streams.
Page 539
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 539 - The Committee, in consequence submit the following resolution: Resolved, That the Supreme Executive Council be authorised and requested, and they are hereby authorised and requested to enter into a negociation with the States of Maryland and Delaware upon the ground and for the purposes above mentioned. Extract from the minutes, - J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk. SEC'Y ARMSTRONG. To JoHN PIERCE, 1785. Secretary's office, Philadelphia, Nov. 23, 1785. Sir, Your letter of the 15th instant* enclosing two resolutions of Con- gress of the 11th of October last, has been received. Mr. John Nicholson, the Comptroller General of the accounts of this Com- monwealth is appointed to receive the certificates belonging to In- habitants of this State; you will therefore be pleased to deliver them to him, or such person as he may appoint to receive them. I am, Sir, yours, &c., Directed, J. ARMSTRONG, jr. John Pierce, Esq. Sec'y or Congress To PREs. OF CouncIL, 1785. (Circular.) Office of Secretary of Congress, Nov. 23d, 1785. Sir, I have the honor to inform your Excellency that seven States this day assembled in Congress, and have unanimously elected his Excellency, John Hancock, President. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency's most obedient & most hble. Servit, CHA. THOMSON.f Directed, Ilis Excellency, the President of Pennsylvania. * See page 536. f See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 587.
Page 540
540. PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. PREs. FRANKLIN To Gov. of MARYLAND, 1785. In Council, 25th November, 1785. Sir, I have the honor to inform your Excellency that the Legislature of this Commonwealth has in its present session discovered every disposition to adhere to the same generous policy, which in March last, dictated the Law entitled “An Act to execute the Act of “Assembly, declaring the river Susquehanna and other streams “therein, named public highways, and for improving the navigation “ of the same, within the limits of this State.” Commissioners under this law have been appointed and though the work be not actually entered upon, yet no other causes of delay now present themselves excepting such as arise from a disposition in Pennsylvania to promote the purposes by extending the utility of every practicable scheme of inland navigation. It is under this in- fluence that the General Assembly has authorized us to enter into a negociation with the State, over which your Excellency presides, for the purpose of opening “a navigable communication between the “Bays of Chesepeak and Delaware, and for an effectual improve- “ment of the river Susquehanna, and its streams.” Your Excellency will observe that this proposition as far as it applies to Maryland & Pennsylvania is made to rest in all its parts upon the fair and equal ground of reciprocal advantage. Of the three States concern'd that of Delaware will perhaps derive the most immediate advantage from the first part of the plan; but we cannot but flatter ourselves y your Legislature like ours, will see that in promoting the immediate interest of an intervening State, she does not ultimately forego her own. Your Excellency will be pleased to bring this subject before your Gen. Assembly as early as possible, and in such manner, as will be most likely to recommend it to their serious attention. I am, Sir, with the utmost respect, your Excellency's most obedient hble. Serve., BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.” Directed, His Excellency, the Governor of Maryland. PREs. FRANKLIN TO THE Gover NOR OF DELAwarE, 1785. To the Governor of Delaware. Sir, I have the honor to inform your Excellency that under a late act of the Legislature of this Commonwealth, we are authorized to enter * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 585.
Page 541
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. , 541 into a negociation with the States of Delaware and Maryland, for the purpose of “opening a navigable communication between the Bays “of Chesepeak & Delaware,” and for “effectually improving the “navigation of the river Susquehanna and its streams.” The State over which your Excellency presides is so immediately interested in this measure, that we cannot but hope that this proposi- tion will meet your most ready and warm approbation & support, & from the wise & liberal policy which yº State of Maryland has lately discovered on a similar occasion, we have every reason to believe that she will not be backward in adopting a measure so directly cal- culated to promote the interest of all the States concerned in it. The ground upon which it is proposed to conduct this negociation is that of equal and Reciprocal advantages. Assured as we are that it is the only permanent basis of political Contract. Your Ex'y will be pleased to lay this proposition before your Legislature as early as possible, and in such manner as may be most likely to procure a favourable reception. I have the honor to be, with the highest regard, your Excellency's most obedient humble Servt., Indorsed, CHARLES BIDDLE.* Nov. 26, 1785. CoMMISSIONERS OF LANDs To PREs. FRANKLIN, 1785. Philadelphia, November 26th, 1785. Sir, - In obedience to the Instructions of Council of the 12th September last, and the 11th instant we have proceeded to the sale of the Hundred Lots contained in Daniel Leets District, and also the 43 Lots remaining to be sold in said District. The quantity of Land sold amounts to 33,202 Acres, and the amt of Cash to be received £13,985 14—which makes the average price a little better than 8 5 tº Acre. We have the Honor to be, your Excellency's Humble Serv'ts, JNO. LUKENS, S. G. DAVID KENEDY, S'y I'd Off. FRA'S JOHNSTON, R. G. Directed, To his Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq’r, President in Council, Present. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 585.
End of Section 180. Continue to next section or 
Section 181
Page 542
f 542 , PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Gov. SMALLwood of MARYLAND, TO PRES, FRANKLIN, - 1785. Annapolis, 27th Novem", 1785. Sir, I do myself the Honor to transmit to your Excellency certain Resolutions of the Legislature of this State,” the third, fourth, fifth and sixth of which seem to point out the Object to which they wish to call the attention of the Legislature of your state, that Commis- sioners may be nominated for the purpose expressed in the sixth Resolution. I have the Honor to be, with the highest Consideration and respect, your Excellency's mo. Obed’t humble Serv't, W. SMALLWOOD.f To His Excellency The President of the State of Pennsylvania. - RESOLUTION OF ASSEMBLY-STATE House, 1785. State of Pennsylvania ln General Assembly. Monday, November 29th, 1785. A. M. The committee to whom was recommitted November 25, the re- port of the committee appointed to inspect the State House and report the necessary repairs, made report which was read, and on motion, and by special order the same was read the second time, whereupon, Resolved, that the Supreme Executive Council be requested to order the following repairs, (viz.) - 1st. That part of the State house roof between the Steeple and the turret of the clock bell to be covered with Copper. 2d. To new shingle three courses on both sides of the ridge of the roof, and repair several places that are decayed, and if they think proper to order the painting the uper pitches with clarified turpentine and spanish brown, and to draw upon the Treasurer of the State for the payment of such repairs. Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS, Ass Clerk. * Not found. * * f Col. Rec., XIV. p. 589.
Page 543
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, , 543 SEC'Y OF CONGRESS TO PREs. OF CouncIL, 1785. Office of Sec'y of Congress. Sir, Although I have regularly forwarded two copies of the Journal as printed, one for the legislative and another for the Executive branch of Government, yet least some of the sheets may have been mislaid, and thereby the Volumes rendered incomplete, I now forward to your Excellency two complete copies of the Journal of last year bound, one of which you will be pleased to transmit to the Legislature, reserving the other for the use of the Executive. On the 28th, July last” I had the honor of transmitting a copy of the enclosed resolution of the 27th, by which I am directed to apply to the Executives of the several States for 13 copies of the Legislative acts thereof since the 1st of Sept, 1784, and to adopt a similar mode for procuring the acts which may thereafter be passed as aforesaid. The purposes for which these copies are de- sired and the end to be answered are fully explained in the reso- lution. In consequence of this resolution, I have received 13 copies of sundry acts from the States of Massachusetts and South Carolina, one of which I delivered to the Delegates of your State for the use of the Legislature thereof, and I am informed by his Excellency the Governor of Connecticut that previous to the passing of this act, that State had sent a copy of its acts to the Legislatures of the several States. I beg leave to request your attention to this matter. with great respect, I have the honor to be, your Excellency's most obedent, and most Humble. Servt. - CEIA. THOMSON. Directed, His Excellency, The President of Pennsylvania. PREs. FRANKLIN To Gov. SMALLwood of MARYLAND, 1785. In Council, Philadelphia, 1st December, 1785. Sir i have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's letter of the 27th of Novembert with its enclosures, & to assure you * See page, 448. f See page 541, also Col. Rec., XIV. p., 589.
End of Section 181. Continue to next section or 
Section 182
Page 544
544 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. that the subject of them shall be immediately laid before the Legisla- ture for their consideration. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect your Excellency's most obedient humble Servi. - BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, Pres, Directed. His Excellency, Governor Smallwood. SECRETARY OF CONGRESS TO PREs. FRANKLIN, 1785. (Circular.) Office of Secretary of Congress, December, 3d, 1785. Sir, I have the Honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith en- closed an act of Congress passed yesterday, recognizing John Temple Esquire, as Consul General of His Brittannic Majesty throughout the United States. with great respect, I have the honor to be, your Excellency's most obedient, & most hum. servt. CHA. THOMSON. Directed, His Excellency The President, of Pennsylvania. RESOLUTIONs of CoNGRESS.–CoNSUL GEN'L of G. B., 1785. The United States in Congress Assembled. December 2d, 1785, The Secretary of the United States for the Department of Foreign Affairs, to whom was referred the Letter of 24th November, to His Excellency the President, with Mr. J. Temple's Commission having reported “That John Temple, Esquire, has presented to the United States in Congress assembled, a Commission in due form, bearing date the fifth day of February, last, from His Britannic Majesty, constituting and appointing him the Cosnul General of his said Majesty in these States. That there is as yet no Commercial Treaty or convention sub- sisting between his Britannic Majesty and the United States, whereby
Page 545
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 545 either have a perfect right to establish Consuls in the dominions of the other, but that amicable negociations for that and other recip- rocal privileges are now depending. That although the issue of those negociations is, as yet, uncertain, it will nevertheless be proper for the United States on this and every other occasion to observe as great a degree of liberality as may consist with a due regard to their National Honor and Welfare.” therefore Resolved that the said John Temple, Esquire, be and he hereby is received and recognised, as Consul General of His Britanic Majesty throughout the United States, and that his Commission be registered in the Secretary's Office, Resolved, That all the privileges preeminences & authority which the Laws of Nations and of the Land give to a Consul General received by the United States from any nation with whom they have no Commercial Treaty or Convention are due to the said John Temple and shall be enjoyed by him. Ordered That certified copies of the above resolutions be trans- mitted to the Executives of the different States for their infor- mation. CHA. THOMSON. TRUSTEEs of GENERAL LOAN OFFICE To PREs. CouncIL, 1785. The Trustees of the General Loan Office of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania applies to his Excellency the President and the Su- preme Executive Council for such a sum of the new Paper Money to emit on Loan agreeable to Law as your Honors shall see proper to rant them at this time. Philadelphia, December 6th, 1785. GEORGE SCHLOSSER, ROWA EVANS, ROBERT SMITH. N.B. 4:35,000 is already emitted on Loan. - CoMMISSIONERs of LAND OFFICE TO PREs. FRANKLIN, 1785. Sir Pursuant to the Instructions of your Honble Board we have pro- ceeded to the sale of Nathaniel Braden's District which contained 31,883 acres, the amount of Sales whereof is £4042 17.3, the average price of which is about 2s 63d tº acre, so that, when the amount of Sales of this District is added to that of Leet's the whole will average only 5s 6d. § acre, being a less sum than is now received in the Land office for Lands in the new purchase. Perhaps, your Honors will esteem it eligible to postpone the
End of Section 182. Continue to next section or 
Section 183
Page 546
546 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. further sale of these Lands till towards the beginning of the next Session of the Assembly, and then to begin with a District above Fort Pitt either Cunningham's or Elders, being both very good Districts. Dec 6", 1785. We have the honor to be, Your Excell” Humble Serv". JNO. LUKENS, S. G. DAVID KENNEDY, S, L' Off. FRAS. JOHNSTON. Directed, His Excellency, Benjamin Franklin, Esq. LEVI Hollingsworth To PREs. AND CouncIL, 1785. To His Excellency, Benjamin Franklin, Esquire, and the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, From the continued application of the East India seamen for every necessary of life, which I have so far administered to them much to the inconvenience of my private business, I am obliged to pray the Honourable Council to appoint some person to the Guardian- ship or care of them, as well to provide Houses or rooms, as to supply them with their further wants, the house they now occupy of mine being too small for the accommodation of so many persons having but one fire-place, and also too valuable to me to be occupied without a gratuity, and from the situation by no means suited for the purpose of barracks to persons, unacquainted with wood-fires and the risk resulting from inattention to them, which is the case of these people. I am therefore to hope and beg the Honourable Council either to have them Lodged in the Publick alms-house or Elsewhere, or to Clothe me with authority to remove them back to New Castle county, where they unfortunately came on board a vessell of mine which brought them to Philadelphia thro’ motives of Charity. They, poor creatures, are now in great want of other rooms to shelter them, which is not in my power to provide, and I humbly conceive the overseers of the Poor might provide for them at less expence an they be better accomodated under their patronage, than that of mine. In conformity to the directions of your board I have cloathed them with new westcoats, outside coats, trowsers, shoes and stockings & provided them with Beef, Flour & Firewood. And tho' my own feelings are much affected by their situation, yet my private business
End of Section 183. Continue to next section or 
Section 184
Page 547
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 547 is too extensive to devote that time to them that their necessities require. I am with great regard, Your most obedient & Very Humble Servant, LEWI HOLLINGSWORTH. Philade, December 10th, 1785. * Directed, His Excellency, Benjamin Franklin, Esquire, Present. RECEIVER GEN'L OF LAND OFFICE TO PREs. FRANKLIN, 1785. Sir, The time being now elapsed which was specified in the Instruct- ions of Council for payment of the purchase money and fees which have accrued on the lands sold in Daniel Leets District, and sundry purchasers not having complied with the terms therein mentioned, I beg leave therefore to submit to Council the steps necessary to be pursued on this occasion. Indeed I have reason to believe that some of the purchasers do not mean to comply at all, with the terms of sale, if so, perhaps it would not be amiss for your Hon’ble Body to use compulsory mea- sures; as any future Sale (if purchasers should be indulged in relinquishing their purchases) wou'd be productive of Expence alone without any emolument to the State. I have the honor to be, your Excellency's * most Obed’t Serv't, FRAN'S JOHNSTON, R. G. Dec. 12th, 1785. Directed, To. His Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq’r. JAMES PEARSON.—STATE HOUSE, 1785. To the honorable the Supream Executive Council of the Common- wealth of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, Having considered your advertisement in the Pennsylvania packet and revised the estimate laid before the Committee of the Hon’ble
End of Section 184. Continue to next section or 
Section 185
Page 548
548 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. Assembly, do now offer to perform all the repairs mentioned in the said advertisments for Eighty three pounds, and am assured no person can afford to do said work for a less price or more expediti- ously, especially as I have the shingles ready for the very purpose, (having procured and drest them a considerable time since by the advice of some gentlemen of the Committee of the late Assembly, and a part of the old roof cleared off (by mistake) ready to go to work. I am with respect, Gentlemen, y' h’ble Serv", JAMES PEARSON. Philad'a, Decem; 12th, 1785. Directed, To The Honorable Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. LEVI Hollingsworth To PRESIDENT AND CouncIL, 1785. To the President and Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, In conformity to your directions, I have supplied the Lascars and Chinese with the Sundry articles necessary to their subsistance, amounting in the whole to £ as tº Bill and shop notes inclosed which I must beg the Council to grant an order for the payment of I left the House-rent to the discretion of Council, the sum I had let it for at the time they were put in, was Thirty pounds #3 annum. I am also to observe that their great consumption of provisions must arise from want of oeconomy, they having consumed near two pounds tº day. The Lascars being removed to the Alliance Frigate, a distance from my business, it will no longer be convenient to me to provide for them, at the same time, must beg to suggest to Coun- cil the necessity of some person having a care to their future man- agement. Mr. Randle (a gentleman going to India from New York) giving me assurance that he would in a few days take the three Chinees with him, I have permitted them to remain with me, they having latterly differed with the Lascars, and their quarrels ariseing to considerable heights, I thought it best to seperate them. I am with great regard the Councils most Obedient IIumble Servant, LEWI HOLLINGSWORTH, Philadelphia, December 26th, 1785.
Page 549
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES : 1784. 549 [The following papers have been discovered since those in the same year were printed—their appropriate place was between pp. 184 & 393. In the Index they will be found referred to Chronologi- cally.] DELEGATES IN CoNGRESS To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Annapolis, 13th Jany., 1784. Sir, We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of instructions from the honorable the Supreme Executive Council dated Decr. 29th, which shall be attended to. The Inclosed papers we beg your Excellency will be pleased to lay before the Honorable the Council & Genl. Assembly for their information. With great respect, we have the honor to be, your Excellency's most obed. & most Hble. Servants, THO. MIFFLIN, EDW. HAND, Directed CAD. MORRIS. His Excell'cy John Dickinson, Esq. GENs. MIFFLIN & HAND To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Si Annapolis, 20th Jany., 1784. Ir, We have received your Exc'ys letter of the 7th Instant,” it gives us the greatest Satisfaction to be able to inform the Honorable Council that the difficulties which had arisen respecting the ratifi- cation of the definitive treaty have been happilly removed. We hope that Congress will in a short time appoint Commissioners & determine on the place & time of holding a Treaty with the hostile tribes of Indians of which we will give your Excell’y the earliest advice—we now transmit copies of the proceedings prepara- tory to that important business. with great respect, we have the honor to be, your Excell’ys most obed. hble. Servants, THOMAS MIFFLIN, Indorsed, EDW. HAND.f [Read 1 time Jany. 29, 1784.] Directed, His Exc'y John Dickinson Esqr. * * See page, 155, 156, 184. # See Col. Rec., Wol. XLV., p. 23. Vol. X. —24
Page 550
550 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES -1784. RESOLUTIONs of CoNGRESS,-Wyoming, 1784. By the United States in Congress, assembled, Friday, Jany. 23d, 1784. On the report of a committee consisting of Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Lee & Mr. Williamson to whom was referred a petition of Zebulon Butler & others claiming under the State of Connecticut private right of soil within the territory westward of the Delaware formerly in controversy between the said state & that of Pennsylvania and lately determined by a Court constituted and appointed agreeably to the Ninth of the articles of confederation and perpetual union to be within the jurisdiction of the said state of Pennsylvania complaining that they are disturbed in their right by others claiming under the said state of Pennsylvania and praying that a Court may be insti- tuted under the ninth article of the confederation for determining the said right. Resolved, That a court be instituted according to the said ninth article of the confederation for determining the private right of soil within the said territory so far as the same is by the said article submitted to the determination of such a court. That the fourth Monday in June next be assigned for the ap- pearance of the parties by their lawful agents before Congress or the committee of the States wherever they shall be then sitting. That notice of the assignment of the said day be given to the parties in the following form.* Resolved, that the said notice be transmitted by the Secretary to the executives of the States of Connecticut and Pennsylvania with a request that they take proper measures for having the same served on the parties interested under their State respectively, CHA. THOMSON, Secy. PREs. DICKINson To WICE-PRESIDENT, 1784. Sir, Inclosed are some Memorandums respecting articles, on which Duties may be proper, & also some Notes concerning the admiralty Jurisdiction. I shall be very glad if Council will be pleased to make such addi- tions or alterations as they judge expedient, & then, that you will be so good as to transmit the Paper to Mr. Delany. I beg leave to submit to Council the inclosed answer to Mr. de Crevaceur's letter.f * See form of notice, on page 194. f See page, 195.
Page 551
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 551 A Letter is now sent, inclosing Mr. Scott's account, which please to have delivered to the Speaker. I should have prepared the Message on John Campbell's Memorial, but find it necessary to have the Entries he referrs to. If you could without too much Trouble convey him notice to call upon Me this Day or to-morrow between 11 & 2 o'clock, I should like to converse with him on his Business, & should be glad that you & some of the Council might be present. I am, with the greatest Esteem, Sir, Your most obed. h’ble Serv't. JOHN DICKINSON. Tuesday morning, January 27. Directed, The Honorable, The Vice-president. Indorsed, January 27, 1784. From His Excellency, The President to Council. IREPORT, &c., of CoMMITTEE of GEN’L AssEMBLY,-Wyoming.” Friday, January 30th, 1784, A.M. The Report of the Committee read yesterday, on the petition of divers Inhabitants of Wyoming, was read the second time as follows, WIZ. The Committee to whom was referred the Petition of Samuel Shepherd and others, Inhabitants of Wyoming beg leave to offer the following Report. That they find upon careful examination that the following of the said petitioners viz., Simon Spalding, Sam'l Shepherd, Joseph Hageman, Nathaniel Davenport, Conrad Lyons, Daniel Whitney, Joseph Elliott, Solomon Perkins, the Heirs of Christopher Cartwright jointly, Stephen Fuller, Asell Burnham, Preserved Cooley, William Stark, Isaac Baldwin & Lawrence Myers are within the Description of persons entitled to a reasonable Compensation in Lands within the Boundaries of this State agreeable to a Resolve of the Honorable Assembly of this State of the second of September last, your Com- mittee therefore offer the following Resolution. Resolved, That the Secretary of the Land Office be hereby author- ized & required, to deliver to each of the above named persons, viz. Simon Spalding, Samuel Shepherd, Joseph Hageman, Nathaniel Davenport, Conrad Lyons, Daniel Whitney, Joseph Elliott, Solomon Perkins, the Heirs of Christopher Cartwright, jointly, Stephen Fuller, Asell Burnham, Preserved Cooley, William Stark, Isaac Baldwin and Lawrence Myers. Certificates under the Seal of his office importing that each of them are entitled to three hundred Acres of Land to be Located anywhere within the purchased & * See pages 557–561, and 574–5, and the collection of Wyoming docu- ments near the close of this Volume.
Page 552
552 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. unappropriated parts of the Counties of Northampton & Northum- berland and that the Surveyor General be authorized & required to direct Copies of the said Certificates to any of the Deputy Surveyors of the said Counties at the request of the party, in order to the final confirmation of the said lands which are to be free of purchase Money on payment of the Fees of Office only, And on the question “Will the House adopt the foregoing Report,” it was carried in the affirmative by a considerable Majority and the Report adopted. Extract from the Minutes. J. SHALLUS, Ass’t Cl’k. of the General Assembly. Indorsed,—“Not complied with on the part of the Conn' petitioners.” REPORT of CoMMITTEE TO GENERAL AssEMBLY. Tuesday, Sept. 2d, 1783. The Committee to whom were referr'd Captain Shrawder's Letter and the report of the Commissioners sent to Wioming to effect a compromise with the settlers at that place, and the Owners of the Wioming Lands, beg leave to report, That they have examined the several papers committed to them with care & attention, and are fully satisfied of the laudable Zeal and industry used by your Commissioners to effect the purposes of their Mission, and likewise with the generous offers made by the Pennsylvania Land holders to the settlers at Wioming. Your Com- mittee are, however, sorry to find that the endeavours of your Com- missioners and the offers of the proprietors of Lands at Wyoming have been rendered abortive by the interference of the State of Connecticut and the Susquehanna Company, so that our hopes of a friendly compromise seem now vanished. Your committee submit the following resolutions to the Honorable House. Resolved, that a Committee be appointed to prepare and bring in a Bill for repealing the Law of this State entitled “An Act to prevent and stay suits from being brought against the inhabitants of Wioming during the time therein mentioned, passed March 13th, last, and for confirming the Township of Wyoming into three Dis- tinct Townships, as laid out and divided by your Commissioners on the 22d day of April last past. Resolved, That as well to discover the moderation and Equitable disposition of this House, as in consideration of the sufferings of the Settlers at Wioming from the Common Enemy, a reasonable com- ensation in Lands within the Boundaries of this State upon easy Terms be made to the families of those who have fallen fighting against the Savages, and to such others as did actually reside on the Lands at Wyoming when the late Decree was given at Trenton. Resolved, That no such settler be intitled to the benefits of this Resolution unless upon demand made he gives up possession to the Claimant or Claimants under Pennsylvania or upon any Suit of
Page 553
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 553 Trespass and Ejectment being commenced by such Claimant or Claimants He shall become Defendant in such Suit and Confess Judgment to the Plaintiff or Plaintiffs in Ejectment. Ordered, That Mr. Whitehall, Mr. Latimer, and Mr. Maclay, be a Committee to bring in a Bill agreeable to the first of the foregoing resolutions. - * EPHRAIM Douglass To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Si Union Town, 2nd February, 1784. Ir, . The recollection of the personal obligations for which I feel my- self indebted to your Excellency's beneficence, would alone be suffi- cient to inspire me with the desire of giving every testimony of grateful recognition; and when to that is added the obligation of public duty, I will confidently hope your pardon for this trouble, even if my communication should appear unimportant. The Courts were opened for this County on the 23d of December last; the gathering of people was pretty numerous, and I was not alone in fearing that we should have had frequent proofs of that turbulence of spirit with which they have been so generally, and perhaps too justly stigmatized, but I now take great satisfaction in doing them the justice to say that they behaved to a man with good order and decency; our grand jury was really respectable, equal at least to many I have seen in Courts of long standing. Little busi- ness was done, other than dividing the County into Townships, a Return of which is under cover:* And here I must beg the indul- gence of your Excellency and Council, if, from the novelty of the business and the want of a precedent, I have been deficient in form. The instructions of Council respecting the opposition to asses- ment in Manallin Township, I laid before the Justices as directed, but they have not yet come to any resolution thereon; some of them I find, are of opinion that the reviving it at this distant time might be attended with more vexatious consequences than the suffering it to be forgotten will probably produce. For this reason, and in con- sideration of their since peacable demeanor, I should incline to agree with them that for the present, until the authority of the Court becomes by degrees and habitude of obedience, more firmly esta- blished in the general acquiescence of all descriptions of people within the County, and a Goal and other objects of popular terror be erected to impress on their minds an idea of the punishment annexed to a breach of the laws, lenient measures might produce as good effects as the most rigorous ones that justice could adopt, were not the wisdom and directions of Council opposed to this opinion. To these reasons for declining the prosecution of the offenders, if * Not found. *
Page 554
554 PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. their identity could be made appear, which I think very doubtful, might be added others that I am distressed to be obliged to take notice of; the Tax not having been assessed till after the division of the County, the authority of the Commissioners of Westmoreland then became justly questionable, and the total want of Commission- ers in this County to levy a Tax of any kind, either for the State, or to answer the exigencies of the County, and the consequent ina- bility of the Trustees to perform the duties assigned them by the Legislature, may all be subjects of consideration in this case. For, from an unhappy misconception of the law for dividing Westmore- land, this County has not an Officer of any kind, except such as were created or continued by the Act, or appointed by Council. Denied a seperate election of a member in Council and representative in Assembly till the general election of the present year, they un- fortunately concluded that this inability extended to all the other elective officers of the County, and in consequence of this belief, voted for them in conjunction with Westmoreland. The remedy of this evil I fear is not easily pointed out; but if there be a possible one it is to be found in the wisdom of Council, to which I beg leave, as I shall in all other difficulties, to make my humble ºf - The Trustees have appointed next Monday to meet on, and begin the partition line between this County and Westmoreland, on this condition, which Colonel Maclean, who is to be executive person, has generously agreed to—to pay the expence at some future time when it shall be in their power to call upon the County Commission- ers for the money. And necessity has suggested to us the expedi- ent of building a temporary Goal by subscription, which is now on foot. Not knowing the necessity of an application to Council for Tavern Licences before I left the City, I am now obliged to trouble them with a request that they will favor me with some by the first con- venient opportunity. Suffer me now, worthy Sir, to step for a moment from the line of my duty. The honor which Council have heretofore done me by questioning me on the subject of Indian Affairs, will, I hope, acquit me of the charge of presumption, if, from an opinion of their confi- dence in my information, I venture to intermeddle without their commands, and give them such information as have come to my knowledge from the accounts of others since I left the Canadian Country. Early in the fall, Sir John Johnson assembled the different west- ern tribes at Sandusky, and having prepared them with presents, distributed with lavish profusion, addressed them in a Speech to this purport: That the King, his and their common father, had made peace with the Americans, and had given them the country they possessed on this continent; but that the report of his having given them any part of the Indians' lands was false, and fabricated by the Ameri-
Page 555
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 555. cans for the purpose of provoking the Indians against their father, that they should therefore shut their ears against it. So far the contrary was true, that the great river Ohio was to be the line be- tween the Indians in this quarter and the Americans; over which the latter ought not to pass and return in safety. That, however, as the war between Britain and America was now at an end, and as the Indians had engaged in it from their attachment to the crown, and not from any quarrel of their own, he would, as was usual at the end of a war, take the Tomahawk out of their hand; though he would not remove it out of sight or far from them, but lay it down carefully by their side, that they might have it convenient to use in defence of their rights and property if they were invaded or molested by the Americans. I shall not presume to trouble your Excellency with any remarks on the probable tendency of an intimation so manifestly correspon- dent with the sentiments, wishes and interest of these savage tribes, already alarmed with the frequent attempts which have been made to encroach upon them ; but beg leave to have the honor of declar- ing, that I am, with all imaginable respect, your Excellency's very humble and most obedient Servant, EPHRAIM DOUGLASS. His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire. February 6th, in continuance. Want of an earlier conveyance, gives me the opportunity of en- closing to Council the return of an election held here this day for Justices of the peace for this town and township; and I trust the importance of the choice of officers to the county will excuse me to that honorable body for offering my remarks on this occasion. Colonel Maclean, though not the first on the return, needs no character from me, he i. the honor to be known to Council. James Finley is a man of a good understanding, good character, and well situate to accommodote that part of the township most remote from the town. Henry Boeson is the proprietor of the town; a man of much modesty, good sense and great benevolence of heart, and one whose liberality of property for public uses justly entitles him to particular attention from the county, however far it may be a consideration with Council. Jonathan Rowland is also a good man, with a good share of understanding, and a better English education than either of the two last mentioned; but unfortunately of a pro- fession rather too much opposed to the suppression of vice and im- º he keeps a tavern in the town. John Gaddis is a man whom I do not personally know; one who has at a former election in the then township of Manallin, been returned to Council, but never commissioned, from what reason I know not; his popularity *
Page 556
556. PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. is with those who have been most conspicuous for their opposition to the laws of this Commonwealth. Moses Sutton is remarkable for nothing but aspiring obscurity, and great facility at chanting a salm or stammering a prayer. Duty thus far directs me to give Council an impartial description of the men who are to be the future officers of this County, but both duty and respect forbid my saying more, or presuming to express a wish of my own; for I have no predilection for one, or personal prejudice against either of them. I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your Excellency's, very humble and most obedient servant, EPHRAIM DOUGLASS. DELEGATES IN Congress To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Annapolis, 7th March, 1784. Sir, - For the information of your Excelly. and the Honorable the Council, we have the honor to transmit the enclosed extracts taken from a letter rec'd this day from Doctor Franklin. With perfect respect we have the honor to be your Excell’ys most obedt. and most H'ble Serv’ts, THO. MIFFLIN, JOHN MONTGOMERY, EDW’D HAND. Jno. Jay, Esqr., was this day Elected Secretary for Foreign Affairs.” Directed, His Exc'y John Dickinson, Esqr. ExTRACT of A LETTER FROM Doctor FRANKLIN, 1784. Extract of a letter from Doctor Franklin, dated Passy, March 9th, 1784. [?] “I rec'd a few days since a letter from Annapolis, dated Jan'y “5th, acquainting the Commissioners with the Causes of delay in “sending the Ratification of the Definitive Treaty. The term was & 4 º: before that letter came to hand, but I hope no difficulty “will arise from a failure in a point not essential, & which was * See page 401-2. -
End of Section 185. Continue to next section or 
Section 186
Page 557
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. $57 “occasioned by accidents. I have just received from Mr. Hartley “a letter on the subject, of which I enclose a copy. “I have exchanged ratifications with the Ambassador of Sweden, “& enclose a copy of that I rec'd from him.” - Extract of a letter from David Hartley, Esqr., dated London, March 2d, 1784. “Will you be so good as to transmit the enclosed to Mr. Jay, “I am sorry that we are going to lose him from this side of the “Atlantic. If your American Ratification should arrive speedily, “I might hope to have the pleasure of seeing him again before his “departure. As soon as Phear from you of the arrival of your “Ratification I will immediately apply for the dispatch of the * British Ratification.” PROCEEDINGs of GENERAL Assembly—Wyoming, 1784.” 8 Dec., 1783. A petition and remonstrance from divers inhabitants of Wyoming was read, complaining of certain illegal proceedings had against them by Alexander Patterson, Esquire, and others. Ordered to lie on the table. 9th Dec., '83. The petition of divers inhabitants of Wyoming, read yesterday, was read the second time; whereupon This Com. report on the 19th March. Resolved, That the members of the county of Northampton, or a majority of them, be a committee to enquire into the charges con- tained in a petition from a number of the inhabitants of Wyoming, in the county of Northumberland, and report to this House at their next meeting, and that the said petition, and other papers accompany- ing it, be put into their hands. March 31st, 1784. The report of the committee, read March 19, on the petition of divers inhabitants of Wyoming, was read the second time as follows, WIZ. The committee to whom was referred the report of the committee on the charges contained in the petition from divers inhabitants of Wyoming, the letter from Alexander Patterson, Esquire, and two petitions from the inhabitants of Wyoming, beg leave to report— That after examining the different depositions accompanying the report of the committee on the charges contained in the petition from the inhabitants of Wyoming, they do not find that the same contain any matter of complaint, but such as, if true, the laws of * See pages 551–2, 574, 5. 24+
Page 558
558 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. this State are fully sufficient to redress, and that therefore an appli- cation to this House was unnecessary and improper, a greater part of the irregularities alledged against Alexander Patterson, Esquire, appear to have been done by people in his name, but no order or warrant appears to have been given by him for any such acts. 31st March, 1784. Your committee therefore offer the following resolution to the House : Resolved, That the petition from divers inhabitants of Wyoming, presented to this House on the 8th day of December last, be dis- missed, and that the parties be referred to common law for redress of any injuries they may have sustained. - It was about this point of time y' Council were informed of the overflowing of the Susquehannah, by wº the Connecticut Claimants suffered much—what their (Council's) disposition was will appear by the following message. A Message from the President and the Supreme Executive Council to the General Assembly. Gentlemen, The late inundation having reduced many of the inhabitants at Wyoming to great distress, we should be glad if your honorable House would be pleased to make some immediate provision for their relief. JOHN DICKINSON. Council Chamber, Philadelphia, March 31, 1784. Ordered to lie on the table. 21 Jan'y, p. 84. A petition from Samuel Shepherd, and others, inhabitants of Wyoming, was read, stating their distressed situation, and praying that a tract of land may be allotted them on reasonable terms in any of the unappropriated territory of this State, in lieu of that which hath been adjudged to belong to the State of Pennsylvania by the decree of the Court lately holden at Trenton. 23 Jan'y, page 94. The petition of divers inhabitants of Wyoming, read January 21, was read the second time. Ordered, That it be referred to Mr. Rush, Mr. M'Clean, Mr. Watts, Mr. R. Brown and Mr. Maclay, to report thereon. 29 Jan'y, p. 103. The committee appointed January 23, on the petition of divers inhabitants of Wyoming, made report, which was read for the first time, and Ordered to lie on the table.* * See the action in reference to this, on page 551.
Page 559
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 559 29th Jan'y, 1784. The committee, to whom the messages of the 19th and 21st instant were referred, made report in part, which was read, and on motion, and by special order, the same was read the second time, debated by paragraphs, and in part adopted, as follows, viz. 1st. That it appears the government of our sister State of Con- necticut have not duly informed themselves of the resolutions and acts of this commonwealth respecting the settlers at Wyoming; whereupon Resolved, That it be recommended to the President or Vice Presi- dent in Council, to furnish the Governor and Assembly of the State of Connecticut with the proceedings of the Council and Assembly of this commonwealth respecting the settlers at Wyoming, since the judgment at Trenton. 2d. On the petition, remonstrance and address of Zebulon Butler, and others, to the Honorable the Congress of the United States, assembled and sitting at Princeton, in the State of New Jersey, dated November 11, 1783, your committee would observe, that it contains representations different from what appears on the files of this House from some of the subscribers, and other matters, neither founded in fact, supported by justice, or by the spirit of the confede- ration, on which your committee offer the following resolution: Resolved, That the absolute right of pre-emption of the soil and lands at Wyoming, claimed by Zebulon Butler, and others, as well as the right of jurisdiction, is vested in this commonwealth, and that a committee be appointed to draft instructions to our Delegates in Congress on those heads, setting forth also, in the said instruc- tions, the humane proceedings and conduct of the State in protecting, and resolving to grant lands to the actual settlers on the lands afore- said, at the time judgment was given respecting the claims of Con- necticut. Ordered, That Mr. Parr, Mr. Woods and Mr. Maclay, be a com- mittee, for the purposes contained in the foregoing resolution. REsolutions of GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1784. The further report of the committee appointed on the messages of January 19 and 22 last, was in part read the second time; whereupon, Resolved, 1st, That the Delegates of this State be instructed to apply immediately to Congress for an explanation of their act of the 23d of last month, it appearing to be uncertain, whether the fourth Monday in June next is fixed for the purpose of appointing Com- missioners, or Judges, to constitute a court for hearing and deter- mining the matter in question, or for the purpose of deciding how
Page 560
560 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. far the same is, by the ninth article of the confederation, submitted to the determination of such court. 2d. That if Congress, by the said act, meant the appointment of Commissioners, or Judges, next June, then the said Delegates move for a reconsideration of the said act, and represent to Congress, that the Agents for the State of Connecticut did, upon the late trial at Trenton, suggest to the court there, that “the tenants in possession “of the lands in controversy, and particularly the companies of “Delaware and Susquehanna, were improving and holding large “tracts of land, under title from the State of Connecticut;” and that by the said article of confederation, a court is to be established for the trial of the private right of soil only, where it is claimed under different grants of two or more States, or so that Zebulon Butler and the other claimants cannot be entitled to such a court, unless they come within the description aforesaid, which it is appre- hended they do not; that if Congress should consent to establish courts at the instance of persons not first proving themselves to be included in the description aforesaid, the citizens of this State may be harrassed by a multitude of pretended claims, at the suit of adventurers or invaders of the State, and in the present instance at the suit of persons, who have settled in defiance of the resolution of Congress of the 23d December, 1775. 3d. That if Congress shall resolve that the matter in question is by the said article of the confederation submitted to the determina- tion of such a court, then the said Delegates insist that Zebulon Butler, and the other claimants, be required immediately to exhibit to Congress, schedules, particularising their claims. And in debating the following paragraph, viz. 4th. That two Agents be appointed by the Supreme Executive Council, for managing, under their direction, the controversy con- cerning claims of private right of soil in the territory heretofore in dispute between this State and Connecticut, the jurisdiction and pre-emption of which the Court of Commissioners at Trenton, on the 30th day of December, 1782, did judge of right to belong to this state, L The Yeas and Nays were called by Mr. Carothers and Mr. Cole- man, and are as follows, viz. YEAS. 1 John Steinmetz, 10 John Clark. 2 Thomas Shields, 11 Richard Rue, ; Sharp Delany, 12 David Thomas, * 13 Evan Evans 5 torn off, 14 John Hannum, . 6 enry Hill, 15 Joseph Parke, - 7 Samuel Ashmead, 16 Richard Willing, $ Jacob Rush, 17 Edward Jones, , 9 Thomas Long, 18 Abraham Scott,
Page 561
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 561 19 Matthias Slough, 20 Joseph Work, 21 Adam Hubley, 22 William Parr, 23 Robert Coleman, 24 Moses M'Clean, 25 John Hay, 26 Robert M'Pherson, 27 Joseph Magoffin, 29 Philip Gardner, 30 David M'Conaughy, 31 James Johnston, 32 Jacob Stroud, v 83 Robert Brown, 34 George Woods, 35 Robert Cluggage, 37 William Maclay, 38 Matthew Ritchie, 28 Henry Miller, NAYS. * 1 William Brown, 2 James Mercer, 3 John Craig, 4 Adam Orth, ~ 5 William Brown (Carlisle) 6 Frederick Watts, 9 Robert Whitehill,) 10 Nicholas Lutz, 11 Christian Lower, 12 Abraham Lincoln, 13 John Rice, I4 Thomas Morton, 7 John Carothers, 15 Richard Wallace, 8 Abraham Smith, - 16 John Stephenson. So it was carried in the affirmative, and the paragraph agreed to. 5th. That the said Agents be instructed to prepare themselves for maintaining the right of soil within the territory aforesaid to be vested in Pennsylvania, and persons claiming under Pennsylvania; for justifying the conduct of this State from the charges contained in the act of the General Assembly of the Governor and Company of the State of Connecticut, of the second Thursday of October last; and for opposing the attempt of the said State to obtain a revision of the cause lately determined at Trenton. Indorsed.—Resolutions and proceedings of General Assembly re- specting the Wyoming lands, Dec., Jan'y and Feb'y, 1783 & 1784.” REsolution of THE 19th CoNGREss, 1784. By the United States in Congress Assembled, March 19th, 1784. On the report of a Committee to whom were referred the fourth and fifth of the instructions of the 15th of October, 1783, to the Commissioners for negociating with the Indians, Resolved, That the said fourth and fifth articles of the instructions of the 15th of October, 1783, to the Commissioners for negociating, with the Indians be and they are hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof the following be substituted. - 4thly, That a Meridian line passing through the lowest point of * They are detached portions of the printed Journals brought together in one view.
Page 562
562 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. the rapids of Ohio to the northern boundary of these United States shall be proposed as the line of Division between the several Indian tribes, and these States; so that all the lands comprehended between the said Boundary on the north, the Ohio on the South, the said Meridian on the west, and Pensylvania on the East, or so much thereof as the tribes having title thereto may be induced to part with shall be ceded to the United States, and possession thereof or of any parts thereof be given to the United States, at such times as may be agreed upon in the treaty. 5thly, The said Commissioners are instructed as far as they shall find it convenient to treat with the several nations at different times and places; and where necessity shall oblige them to bring two or more nations together That they still keep their treaties and conferences as distinct as may be; that they countenance every disposition in any one of the Six nations, to treat and act separately and independantly; and that in general they discourage every coali- tion & consultation which might tend to involve any one nation in the wars of the others. REsolution of CoNGREss, 1784. By the United States in Congress assembled. March 23, 1784. On the report of the committee of qualifications, consisting of Mr. Sherman, Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Beatty, Mr. Chase and Mr. Wil- liamson, Whereas by the fifth of the articles of confederation and per- petual union of the United States, it is agreed, “That for the more convenient management of the general interest of the United States, delegates shall be annually appointed in such manner as the legis- lature of each state shall direct, to meet in Congress on the first Monday in November, in every year, with a power reserved to each state, to recal its delegates, or any of them, at any time within the year, and to send others in their stead, for the remainder of the year. Resolved, That the several states be requested annually to ap- point their delegates to serve in Congress for one year, to com- mence on the first Monday in November next ensuing the time of their appointment; and when vacancies shall happen, by the re- moval or resignation of any of the said delegates within the year, such states be requested to appoint others in their stead, to serve only for the remainder of the year; and to furnish their delegates so appointed with commissions, or other credentials, under the seal of the state, particularly specifying the time for which they are appointed. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y.
Page 563
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 563 GRIFFITH Owen To CouscIL–STATE House CLOCK, 1784. Gentlemen, Mr. Trimble inform'd me that you had concluded that my employ- ment should cease in taking care of the Clock, the reasons were that she had stopt sundry times & had not kept the true time—the reasons why she stopt I shall point out—the first time she was stopt two days while I was cleaning of her, the second time the frost broke the arbour that swings the hammer, the third time was occa- sion'd by the breaking of the old lines & the new ones being con- siderably thicker took me some time in freeing them. The severity of the weather I believe stopt her once & it was the occasion of her going irregular the sudden changes of the weather is all the way that it can be accounted for, those accidents happening in the most severe part, & I being obliged to work in the Clock room delay'd me longer than I should have been had it been otherwise; the Clock is now in good order & keeps good time, & is I think effectually guarded against the like accidents for the future. If you will be pleased to continue me to take care of her & she should not perform to yours and the publicks satisfaction I will give up my charge at any time without demanding any thing for my future trouble. With the most perfect respect I remain Gentlemen your most humble Servent, GRIFFITH OWEN*. . Directed, To His Excellency the President & Council. Indorsed, March 25, 1784. DELEGATES IN CoNGRESs To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Annapolis, 2d April, 1784. Sir, There being no doubt that Congress by their resolution of the 23d of January last meant that Commissioners or Judges should be appointed in June next, to hear and determine the claim of the Connecticut Settlers at Wyoming to the private right of Soil; it only remains for us to move for a re-consideration of that act; in compliance with the resolutions of the Honorable the General Assembly of the 14th of February last.f In order that at the same time we do this we may be able to shew in the clearest light, the humane and generous intentions of that Honorable Body towards those People. We request your Excellency may be pleased to trans- * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 55. º # See pages 194, 204.
Page 564
564 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. mit to us by the next Post a copy of the resolution of the Honora- ble the General Assembly of the 2d of September last, relative to this Subject & inform us of the cause or causes which gave rise to it, we also wish for an exact copy of the petition or application of the persons to whom grants of Land were made by the resolution of . the 30th of January last. Inclosed we have the honor to transmit a copy of alterations made in the instructions of Congress to the Commissioners for negotiating with the Indians. We think it necessary to make your Excell’y acquainted that Mr. Montgomery has this day left us, so that should sickness or accident prevent either of us from attending in Congress the State would be unrepresented. With due respect we have the honor to be your Excell’ys most obed’t & very humble Serv'ts, THO. MIFFLIN, EDW’D HAND. Directed, s To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr. P. S. Congress is now composed of Eleven States, we have been obliged to postpone to this time the motion to reconsider the act of 23d Jan'y, as those States upon whose assistance we principally relied were not represented. - EPHRAIM Douglass To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Si Hannastown, 10th April, 1784. Ir, By Mr. Wood one of the Gentlemen attornies who attend our back courts and who is going immediately to Carlisle, I do myself the honor to enclose to Council the Return of an election held for Justices of the Peace in the Township of Luzerne, and have obtained his promise to forward it to your Excellency by the first safe con- veyance. From the Return of the Townships and Justices of the Peuce I had the honor to make to Council in February last they will per- ceive that several of the Townships are destitute at present of such officer, and from the knowledge Council have of the duties of the Commissions of the few we have, I think it unnecessary to suggest the reasons for Commissioning the new elected ones before June Court to enable us to hold our Sessions and Orphans court. As I have nothing of material consequence to communicate, I
End of Section 186. Continue to next section or 
Section 187
Page 565
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 565 shall only beg the further indulgence of your Excellency and Council for adding that I have the honor to rest most respectfully, your very humble, * - and devoted Servant, - EPHRAIM DOUGLASS. Directed His Excellency, John Dickinson Esquire. John DoNNALDson To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Wardens Office, April 20, 1784. Gentlemen, In pursuance of your request dated the 16th Inst. we have adver- tized for persons to bring their proposals for removing the Chevaux de friz” to this Board. The inclosed being the only proposals offered for our consideration, we beg leave to recommend them to the notice of the Honbl. Supreme Executive Council. By order of the Board, - JOHN DONNALDSON. Directed, - His Excellency the president & The Honble. Supreme Executive Council State Pennsylvania, PETITION of CAPTORs of Joseph DoANE, 1784. To the Honorable his Excellency the president and other Mem- bers of the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. The petition of the Subscribers Inhabitants of Bucks County Humbly Showeth. That your Honorable Board was pleased to Issue your Procla- mation Bearing Date 30th June 1783,” offering a Reward of one Hundred pounds for Each & Every of the persons Convicted of Robbing the Collectors of public Taxes in this State—after the Date of which proclamation your petitioners did apprehend & Secure Joseph Doan Junr., who now stands Convicted of the fore mentioned Crime. We therefore petition that it might please your Honors to grant us an order to the State Treasurer for obtaining the promised Re- * See page, 349, 350. Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 75, 78,79, 104,119, 241, 242, 50l. Col. Rec., Wol. XIII., p. 616.
End of Section 187. Continue to next section or 
Section 188
Page 566
566 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. ward or to notify to us in what other way we may obtain it and your petitioners as in Duty Bound shall ever pray. We do order and appoint Col. ROBERT ROBINSON, Col. Robert Robinson, Amos Thomas of 3d Batallion of Bucks County, & Josias Ferguson to Receive & AMOS THOMAS, Devide to each person their JOSLAS FERGUSON. Equal Share of Sd. Reward. - April 20th, 1784, Bucks County. REsoLUTIONs of CoNGREss, 1784. By the United States in Congress assembled, April 26, 1784, A Motion was made by Mr. Howell, seconded by Mr. Gerry, That the President be and he hereby is authorized and directed to adjourn Congress on the third day of June next, to meet on the thirtieth of October next at Trenton, for the dispatch of public busi- ness, and that a Committee of the States shall be appointed to sit in the recess of Congress. A Motion was made by Mr. McHenry, seconded by Mr. Spaight, to postpone the consideration of the foregoing motion in order to take into consideration the report of a Committee consisting of Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Osgood, and Mr. Sherman, to whom was referred a report on the powers with which a Committee of the States should be vested during the recess of Congress, and a motion on the same subject, which report is as follows: - That the Committee of the States which shall be appointed pur- suant to the 9th Article of Confederation and perpetual union, to sit in the recess of Congress for transacting the business of the United States, shall possess all the powers which may be exercised by seven States in Congress assembled, except those of sending ambassadors, ministers, envoys, residents or consuls—establishing rules for deciding what captures by land or water shall be legal, and in what manner prizes taken by land or naval forces in the service of the United States shall be divided or appropriated- establishing courts for the receiving and determining finally appeals in all cases of capture; constituting Courts for deciding disputes and differences arising between two or more States; fixing the standard of weights and mcasures for the United States; changing the rate of postage on the papers passing through the post offices established by Congress, and of repealing or contravening any Ordinance passed by Congress. That nine members shall be requisite to proceed to business. That no question except for adjourning from day to day shall be determined without the concurrence of seven votes. That the President of Congress, if a member of the said Coin -
Page 567
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 567. mittee, and if not a member, or if absent at any time, then a chair- man to be chosen by themselves shall preside, the President or Chairman retaining a right to vote. That the Secretary and other officers of Congress shall attend on the said Committee. - That they shall keep an accurate journal of their proceedings to be laid before Congress, and that in these Journals shall be entered the yeas and nays of the members when any one of them shall have desired it before the question be put. On the question to postpone for the purpose above-mentioned, the yeas and nays being required by Mr. McHenry— New Hampshire,...................... Mr. Foster, no. Mr. Blanchard, no.—no. Massachussetts, ........................ Mr. Gerry, no. Mr. Partridge, no.—no. Rhode Island,.......................... Mr. Ellery, no. Mr. Howell, no.—no. " Connecticut,........................... Mr. Sherman, no. Mr. Wadsworth, no.—no. New York,.............................. Mr. De Witt, no. Mr. Paine, no.—no. New Jersey,'....................… Mr. Beatty, no. Mr. Dick, no.—no. - Pennsylvania,.......................... Mr Mifflin, no. Mr. Montgomery, no. Mr. Hand, no.—no. Maryland, ................ • - - - - - ........Mr. McHenry, ay. Mr. Stone, ay. Mr. Chase, ay.—ay. - Virginia,................................ Mr. Jefferson, ay. *: Mr. Hardy, ay. Mr. Mercer, ay. Mr. Monroe, ay.—ay. North Carolina,........................ Mr. Williamson, ay. Mr. Spaight, ay.—ay. South Carolina,........................ Mr. Read, Mr. Beresford, ay.—ay. So it passed in the negative. A Motion was then made by Mr. Williamson, seconded by Mr. McHenry, to amend the motion of Mr. Howell, by adding thereto, “provided a Committee of the States shall first have been appointed to sit in the recess of Congress, and the powers defined with which the said Committee shall be vested according to the 10th of the Articles of Confederation. -
Page 568
568 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. And on the question to agree to this amendment, the yeas and nays being required by Mr. Williamson,<- New Hampshire,................ ......Mr. Foster, no. Mr. Blanchard, no.—no. Massachusetts,......................... Mr. Gerry, no. Mr. Partridge, no.—no. Rhode Island,.......................... Mr. Ellery, no. Mr. Howell, no.—no. Connecticut,............................ Mr. Sherman, no. Mr. Wadsworth, no.—no. New York,.............................. Mr. De Witt, no. Mr. Paine, no.—no. New Jersey,............................ Mr. Beatty, no. Mr. Dick, no.—no. Pennsylvania,.......................... Mr. Mifflin, no. Mr. Montgomery, no. Mr. Hand, no.—no. Mr. Stone, ay. Mr. Chase, ay.—ay. Virginia,................ • - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Mr. Jefferson, ay. - - - - - Mr. Hardy, ay. Mr. Mercer, ay. ... Mr. Monroe, ay.—ay. North Carolina,........................ Mr. Williamson, ay. | Mr. Spaight, ay.—ay. South Carolina,............... .........Mr. Read, ay. Mr. Beresford, ay.—ay. So it passed in the negative. A Motion was then made by Mr. McHenry, seconded by Mr. Mer- cer, to postpone the further consideration of the motion under debate, in order to take up the following:— That as soon as a proper place shall be reported by the Committee appointed to review & report a proper place for a foederal town at or near George-town on the Patowmack, and the soil and jurisdiction obtained as well for the town on Patowmack as that on Delaware, Congress will forthwith proceed to erect such public buildings as may be necessary for their sessions at the expence of the United States out of the common treasury thereof. That the foundations of the said buildings shall be laid at the same time, and no sum of money appropriated for the one unless an equal sum be appro- priated for the other. And on the question to postpone for the purpose above-men- tioned, the yeas and nays being required by Mr. McHenry, New Hampshire,...................... Mr. Foster, no. Mr. Blanchard, no.-no
Page 569
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 569 Massachusetts,......................... Mr. Gerry, no. - Mr. Partridge, no.—no. Rhode Island,.......................... Mr. Ellery, no. Mr. Howell, no.—no. Connecticut,............................ Mr. Sherman, no. Mr. Wadsworth, no.—no. New York,.............................. Mr. De Witt, no. Mr. Paine, no.—no. New Jersey,........................... Mr. Beatty, no. - Mr. Dick, no.—no. Pennsylvania,.......................... Mr. Mifflin, no. - Mr. Montgomery, no. Mr. Hand, no.—no. Maryland, ...................... ........ Mr McHenry, ay. Mr. Stone, ay. Mr. Chase, ay.—ay. Virginia,................................ Mr. Jefferson, no. Mr. Hardy, ay. Mr. Mercer, ay. Mr. Monroe, no.—d'd. North Carolina,........................ Mr. Williamson, no. - Mr. Spaight, no.—no. South Carolina,........................ Mr. Read, ay. Mr. Beresford, no.—d'd. So it passed in the negative. . - - A Motion was then made by Mr. Hardy, seconded by Mr. Read, to pospone the consideration of the motion under debate in order to take up the following: - - Whereas the resolution of the 20th of October last, provides that Congress shall reside at Trenton and Annapolis alternately at equal periods of not less than six months or more than twelve, until the buildings on the banks of Patowmack and Delaware be ready for their reception. And whereas the Delegates from Rhode Island pursuant to instructions from that State, have moved a resolution that Congress adjourn to Newport in the State of Rhode Island, from which it is evidently the sense of that State that the resolution for two foederal towns should not be carried into effect. And where- as it appears to be the sense of a Majority of the States in Con- gress assembled by a motion from the State of Connecticut forbid- ding the Committee appointed to view the ground at or near George- town to proceed in that business until the further order of Congress, and by a motion for allowing the States of Maryland and Virginia to advance pounds for the purpose of erecting public buildings at or near Georgetown, & for giving them credit for the same in the requisition for year, which last being negatived amounts to a virtual repeal of the aforesaid Act, and as it will be
Page 570
570 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. expedient to fix on a situation the most 'central to all parts of the Union for holding the sessions of Congress. Resolved, That Con- gress hold their sessions in Annapolis in the State of Maryland until they decide on some place for their permanent residence, and the necessary buildings be erected for their accomodation. On this motion, the previous question was moved by the State of Pennsylvania, seconded by the State of Rhode Island; and on the question to agree to the previous question, the yeas and nays being required by Mr. Hardy– New Hampshire, - - . Mr. Foster, ay 1 a Mr. Blanchard. ay y Massachusetts, - - . Mr. Gerry, *y a Mr. Partridge. ay y Ithode Island, . - - . Mr. Ellery, *y a Mr. Howell. ay y Connecticut, . - - . Mr. Sherman, ay 1 a Mr. Wadsworth, ay y New York, . - - . Mr. De Witt, *y a Mr. Paine. ay y New Jersey, . - - . Mr. Beatty, ay Mr. Dick. ay ay Pennsylvania, - - . Mr. Mifflin, ay Mr. Montgomery, ay ay Mr. Hand ay Maryland, - - - . Mr. McHenry, no Mr. Stone, In O - no Mr. Chase, no Virginia, . . . . Mr. Jefferson, ay Mr. Hardy, no 'd'd Mr. Mercer, no Mr. Monroe. ay North Carolina, - - . Mr. Williamson, no d'd Mr. Spaight, ay South Carolina, - - . Mr. Read, no ' d'd Mr. Berresford, ay So it was Resolved, in the affirmative, and the motion was set aside. On the question to agree to the original motion, the yeas and nays being required by Mr. Stone— * New Hampshire, . - . Mr. Foster, ay º Mr. Blanchard, ay ay Massachusetts, - - . Mr. Gerry, ay Mr. Partridge, - ay ay
Page 571
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 57.1 Rhode Island, - - . Mr. Ellery, ay Mr. Howell, ay ay Connecticut, - - . Mr. Sherman, ay Mr. Wadsworth, ay ay New York, . - - . Mr. De Witt, ay Mr. Paine, ay jºy New Jersey - - . Mr. Beatty ay y M. iii.” ay } ay Pennsylvania, - - . Mr. Mifflin, ay Mr. Montgomery, ay Kay Mr. Hand, ay Maryland, - - - . Mr. McHenry, Ino Mr. Stone, no X. ud Mr. Chase, In O Virginia, - - - . Mr. Jefferson, ay Mr. Hardy, no Mr. Mercer, no f" Mr. Monroe, Ino North Carolina, - - . Mr. Williamson no d’d - Mr. Spaight, ay South Carolina, - - . Mr. Read, no Mr. Beresford, no "9 So it was Resolved, That the President be and he hereby is, authorized and directed to adjourn Congress on the third day of June next, to meet on the thirtieth day of §. next, at Trenton, for the dispatch of public business, and that a Committee of the States shall be appointed to sit in the recess of Congress. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. WARDENs of PHILADELPHIA To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Wardens office, 26th April, 1784. Sir, - The Board of Wardens beg leave to communicate to your Excel- lency for the Information of yourself and the honorable supreme Executive Council that upon enquiry they find there is no money in the State Treasury subject to their disposal, and that the whole amount of the Tonnage duty since the appointment of the present officer does not exceed one hundred and fifty pounds a sum very inadequate to the objects committed to their care. The principal objects that require immediate attention are as follows, viz', 1st, Finishing the repairs of the light House. 2nd, providing an additional number of Buoys together with
This page contains an image.
Page 572
572 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. their moorings and having them placed in proper places both in the Bay and River. 3rd, providing Beacons and having them placed on the most dangerous Shoals in the Bay and on Cape May. 4th, Repairing the Piers at Reedy and Mud Islands. 5th, Purchasing a vessel for the purpose of carrying oyl and Materials to the Light House, Ballast for filling, & Logs, &c., for the repairs of the Piers, taking down Buoys, &c., and for other uses of the wardens in surveying and examining into the State & Condi- tion of the navigation. - - - These services being of great importance to the Trade, the wardens trust that your Excellncy and the Honorable Council will readily see the necessity of strengthening their hands by granting them a supply of money from the sum reserved for these purposes by the Legislature out of the monies raised by the late Impost Laws and subject to your disposal in order that they may be enabled to execute them in the most expeditious, effectual & frugal manner Possible. We have the honor to be with the greatest Respect - yonr Excellency's most obedient * and very humble servants, FRANS. GURNEY, JOHN DONNALDSON. SAM. CALDWELL, THOS. PRYOR, NATH. FALCONER. JOHN HAZELWOOD. Directed, GEORGE ORD." His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President of the Common- wealth of Pennsylvania. An Estimate of sundry Services requisite to be performed by the Wardens of the Port for Improving the navigation of the Bay & River Delaware as soon as Possible. For finishing the Repairs of the Light House, ab', . . 250 a beacon to be placed on Cape May, . - . 300 a Ditto on the Cross Ledge, . - - - . 350 Additional Buoys with their Mooring to be placed in the Bay, 150 Repairing the Piers at Reedy Island, . - . 50 Do. at Mud Island, . - - - 50 the Purchase of a Wessel for the Various purposes of the Wardens in executing the Dutys of their office, 750 Council Chamber, 29th Apl., 1784.f 4.1900 * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 78, 79. # See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 79.
Page 573
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 573 ESTIMATE of ExPENSEs Fon THE CoMMISSIONERS FOR RUNNING Bound ARY LINE, 1784.” Estimate of Expences for sundry necessaries for the Commiss’rs for running the boundary Line between this State and that of Virginia. 120 Gallons Spirits,............................................... 40 do. Brandy, .......................... --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 80 do. Madeira Wine,............. -------- - - - - - - - - - - - ----- 200 Weight of Loaf Sugar,................... ------ - - - - --------- 6 lb. of Tea,................ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ------------- - 100 do. Coffee,..................... ----------------------------- - pepper, &c.,........ * - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 2 0 0 6 Bushels of Salt,......... ------- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 4 Tin Mugs,.................................... - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 Coffee Mill,................................................... 1 pewter Tea pot, 1 tin Coffee Pot,.............. * - - - - - - - - - - - 60 lb. of Chocolate,.......... --------------------- ---------------- 1 frying pan, 1 Grid Iron, 6 boiling kettles,.............. 1 Dutch oven, 1 Tea kettle,.......... ------ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 2 pair of Snuffers, 4 Candlesticks, 2 funnels,............. * * - 100 lb. Candles, 2 hand saws, 1 Cross Cut saw & 6 files,... 2 hammers, 12 Gimblets & 50 lb. of Nails,......... ------- 1 sett of knives and forks,......... ----------------------- - - - - Tea cups, saucers, glasses, Tumblers, bowls, dishes, plates, tins, spoons and basons,......................... 6 0 0 6 large Camp stools & 6 small do.,........................... 2 Marques, or 4 Horse Mens Tents,........................ 60 felling axes,................................................... *100 lb. of Steel,......... --------- -------------------------------- ... " 6 shovels, ............... ----------- -------------- --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 6 pickaxes, ........... - - - - - - - - - ------------------- * - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 6 Spades,............................................ * * * * * * * * * * * * * 40 lb. of Scotch Barley,............. * --- - - - - - - - - --------------- 12 pair of H.L. Hinges,....................................... 3 four Horse Waggon & 1 Light do. with 4 Horses,..... 20 fathom of 3 inch Rope,............... ---................... 2 Crow Bars, 2 planes, 2 augre's,........................... 4 Matrasses, 4 Blankets, 4 Pillows,......................... 1 frower, 2 Maul Rings, 2 wedges, 1 Broad ax, .......... 2 drawing knives, a Box Window Glass, I Ream of paper, 100 quills, 6 sticks of Wax, 2 dozen pencils, 1 Box of Wafers, 2 Ink stands, 2 large Camp Tables, 1 dozen Memorandum Books,.............................. Cheese,.............. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 2 dozen Hams,........ ---------- * - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 1 dozen Kegs white Biscuit,....................... ----------- * * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 134, Vol. X.—25
Page 574
574 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. ALEXANDER PATTERson To PREs. DICKINson—Wyoming, 1784. Sir, When any Part of the state in which your Excellency precide becomes Imbarrassed and Involved in Difficulty, I conceive it the duty of a good Citizen to give the earliest Information to Govern- ment from what source such troubles flow, from this principle I beg leave to state a few facts relative to the situation and Police of this Country as it now stands. The settlements upon the River have suffered much by an Innun- dation of Ice, which has swept away Greatest part of the grain and stock of all kinds, so that the Inhabitants are Generally very poor. Upon my arrival at this Place the fifteenth Inst. I found the People for the most part Disposed to give up their Pretentions to the Lands Claimed under Connecticut. Having a Pretty General Agency from the Land holders of Pennsylvania, I have availed myself of this Period, and have Possessed in behalf of my Constitu- ents the Chief part of all the Lands occupied by the above Claimants, Numbers of them are going up the River to settle, in this I give every Incouragement in my power, and Take care to fill up their Vacancy with well Disposed Pennsylvanians, I think it is right to Dispose of the others in such a manner as will be most Conducive to the Peace of the state, by granting them Leases and settling them remote from each other, yet notwithstanding this situation of affairs, I am not out of apprehension of Trouble and Danger arising from the ring- leaders of the old offenders who still stand out and are countenanced and Incouraged by their friends, down the River. They are waiting untill the troops are discharged when they expect to have recourse to their former factious practices, in the mean time there is no doubt but that they will Endeavour to spread every Wileanous report that Malice can Suggest, to Endeavour to prepossess the minds of the Publick against our Proceedings, experience has taught us that they are but too apt to succeed in those cases, but I hope their Base designs will appear so Conspicuous to all public Body's and the People in General, that they will no longer become Dupes to their Artifice. My Coadjutors with myself have no new Claim to a Citizenship in this state, I therefore Humbly hope (that if any Dangerous or Sedicious Commotion should arise in this Country so Remote from the seat of Government) that it may not be Construed a Want of Zeal or Love for the Commonwealth, if we should through dire Necessity be obliged to do some things not strictly consonant with the Letter of the Law, I call Heaven to wittness that nothing shall Induce me to do one single Act but what I conceive will tend to the good of the state, and the Happiness of its faithful Citizens, and it shall be my study to have all my actions to harmonize with its Peace and safety, as to Merit the aprobation of Government. if the Troops were to be settled with and Discharged here it would answer
Page 575
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 575 a Valuable Purpose, as a good many of them would incline to stay at this place. I have the Honour to Subscribe myself, Your Excellency's most Obedient & Werry Humble Servant. ALEX’R PATTERSON. Wyoming, April 29th, 1784. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq’r, Philadelphia. DELEGATES IN CoNGRESS To PREs. DICKINSoN, 1784. Si Annapolis, 30th April, 1784. Ir, We have received your Excell” letter of the 14th Inst., covering sundry resolutions of the Honorable the Gen'l Assembly relative to the Wyoming Settlers, which have been laid before Congress, at the same time we, in compliance with the Instructions of the Honble the Gen'l Assembly, moved for, & obtained a reconsideration of the resolution of Congress of the 23d Jan'y last,” directing the institution of a court to determine the private right of soil within the Territory formerly in dispute between the states of Pennsylv" & Connecticut, the Committee to whom our motions were referred have not yet reported. The Inclosed proceedings will make your Excelly & Council acquainted with the determinations of Congress, on an adjournment, a temporary form of Government, for the Western Territory, an requisitions on the States, we think it propper to inform Council that Capt" Carbury, who was Supposed, & confesses himself to be a principal instigator of the late tumultuous behaviour of a part of the Pennsylvania line, has been within these few days apprehended by the desire of Congress, he is now in the hands of the Civil Authorities of this State, subject to be delivered to that of Pennsylvania if demanded. With much respect, we have the honor to be, Your Excell” most obed. and most H’ble Serv't. THO. MIFFLIN, JOHN MONTGOMERY, EDW’D HAND. In consequence of our Instructions from your Honorable Board we brought forward in Congress the Subject of an indemnification to Gen'l Washington for his extra table expences the report of a com- mittee to whom the business was referred is not yet acted on.S Directed, His Excy, John Dickinson, Esq. * See page 550. Page 571. f - - f See page 74, 248,292, 322, 324, 576, and Col. Rec. Vol. XIV., p. 105. % Pages 151, 155, 185. w
Page 576
576 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. DELEGATEs IN Congress To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Annapolis, May 18th, 1784. Sir, We have received and communicated to Congress your Excel- lency's letter of the 5th Instant, signifying the desire of the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council, that the proofs collected in the State of Pennsylvania of the crime charged against Henry Carberry, & transmitted to Congress should be returned. Congress have by the enclosed resolution directed the Secretary to transmit to your Excell'y, these proofs, which will be done by him immediately. With every sentiment of respect we have the honor to be, your Excellency's most obedient Hble. Servants, THOMAS MIFFLIN, JOHN MONTGOMERY, EDW’D HAND. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., In Council Philad'a. No. 1. By the United States, in Congress Assembled, April 28th, 1784. The Committee to whom it was referred to take order upon the report of a Committee of the 23d day of April, instant, on the motion of Mr. Read of the 16th day of March last. Report, That in virtue of the sad order of the United States in Congress assembled, your Committee took measures, and have caused Henry Carbery, late a Captain in the Pennsylvania Line of Continental #. in the said report mentioned, to be arrested and brought before the honorable Robert Goldsborough, one of the Judges of the General Court of the State of Maryland, for examina- tion and to be proceeded against according to law and justice. Your Committee have caused to be laid before the said Judge, all such proofs and evidences of the nature and circumstances of the crime charged against the said Henry Carbery as were on the files or in the possession of Congress, and your committee informed the said Judge, that it was the sense of the United States in Congress Assembled, that the said Henry Carbery, who is a fugitive from ..justice ought to be tried according to the Laws of Pennsylvania, in which State the offence charged against him was committed, and to
End of Section 188. Continue to next section or 
Section 189
Page 577
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 577 the Laws of which State he is amenable. Your Committee recom- mend that the Executive of the State of Maryland be requested to take proper measures for the delivery of the body of the said Henry Carbery to the Executive of the State of Pennsylvania, or their order that he may be dealt with according to Law. Resolved, That Congress agree to the said Report, CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. No. 2. Berks County, ss. The 28th day of June, 1783, before me Daniel Levan, Esq'r, Prothonotary of the County of Berks', in the State of Pennsylva- nia, came Benjamin Spyker, junior, and being sworn, saith, that about ten o'clock in the forenoon this day, Mr. Nicholas Brosius called upon him, this deponent to walk across the street to the house of the said Brosius, and he would hear some thing; that the deponent went accordingly, and found a certain Serjeant Nagle at the porch of the said Brosius, who amongst many other reproaches against the States, for intending to defraud the soldiery, also made the following expressions, that he had received four letters when at Lancaster, which were not signed by any, but requesting the soldiers to come to Philad’a if they wanted a settlement, which letters he believed, or was sure, were wrote by officers, that one hundred and twenty odd Men marched accordingly from Lancaster for the City; that they were deserted by some, and that one hundred privates, himself, and a Corporal came to the City; that a Lieutenant who also was crossed Schuylkill, the said Lieutenant came and met them, and begged they would unfix their Bayonets, and march into the City without beat of drum; that they obeyed untill they came to the City, that, then the said Nagle ordered the Lieutenant to quit the command, and that they knew for what they came, and that the said Nagle gave the command to fix Bayonets, and brace the Drums, and marched into the City, with fixed Bayonets and Musick, and that the soldiers from the Barracks came to meet them in the same manner, and that they were applauded by the Citizens, for looking after their just demands. That when they came to the Barracks they formed a Garrison having field pieces and ammunition of every kind, in plenty Grape and other shot; that, then the said Nagle with another Serjeant, were deputed to his Excellency the Governor, (meaning the President,) with an Instrument of writing by the Garrison agreed upon, and had orders, strict orders, not to return without having the same signed by His Excellency; that accord- ingly, the said Nagle and the other Serjeant waited on the President in the morning, who knew their names already, and ordered a
Page 578
578 PENNSYLVANIAA ARCHIVES 1784. bottle of wine to be brought for them, that they drank the Wine, and that His Excellency the President ordered another bottle of Wine to be brought for them, that then they, (meaning himself and the other serjeant,) told the Governor that they did not come to get groggy, but were come to obtain their just rights and desired him to sign the paper which they brought, and gave him an half an hours time, that after that time was expired, they gave him five minutes more, and that he said Nagle ordered the other Serjeant to go and fetch the Garrison, and that Nagle would guard the Gover- nor; that His Excellency the President then desired that he might go up-stairs to sign the same, which, then the Sergeant refused, but would have it signed in their presence, and that His Excellency the President sent up-stairs for his ink and pen, and in a most trembling manner signed the same, (shewing with his hands how the President should have shook.) Upon being asked by the deponent the pur- port of the paper they made His Excellency sign, said Nagle an- swered it was an engagement that in three days he should give them a final answer how they meant to settle with the soldiery, and that the same made Congress fly that night to Princetown. And further that said Nagle said after they had formed a Circle in the Barrack yard, a certain wooden legged Morris, a Brother to the Honble Robert Morris, Esquire, came amongst them to make a speech, whom they soon turned off, (telling very opprobious language that he made use of) and that in the presence of His Excellency the President, the Honble the Major General SinClair, was going to speak to him, the said Nagle, that he soon turned him off, telling him he had no business there with them, and said had he spoke any more, I should have told him something, and on being asked by this deponent, what would you have said to him, said Nagle answered, I would have told him, I never was fourteen months under arrest, for cowar- dice and misbehaviour, and that he said Nagle ordered off Colonel Humpton; also, that the Militia Light Horse were afraid to come nigh them, and that they went and tore down all advertisements, or Proclamations against them from every Tavern and Corner having taken down an whole arm full. BENJAMIN SPYKER, jun'r. Sworn before me the day first above written, DANIEL LEVAN. Berks, ss. June 28th, 1783, came Nicholas Brosius and on his oath saith, that he heard Serjeant Nagle tell or speak all the words which are mentioned in Benjamin Spyker, jun'r deposition. .. - NICHOLAS BROSIUS. day above written, Sworn before me, the DANIEL LEVAN.
Page 579
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES - IT84. 579 Berks County, ss. June 28th, 1783, Came John Snell and being sworn saith, that he came to Mr. Brosius's porch when Serjeant Nagle was speaking with Benjamin Spyker, junior, and heard all from having made His Excellency the President sign the paper coming after, having toll of his March and drinking wine at the Presidents house, but having heald all the subsequent story of said Nagle. JOHN SNELL. day above written, Sworn before me, the DANIEL LEVAN. Copy. No. 3. In pursuance of an order of 17th of May, 1784, sent to the Supreme Executive of Pennsylvania the following papers Indorsed as follows: 1783, June 30-Deposition of Serjeant Richard Murthwaite of Invalids. 1783, July 2.-Deposition of Soloman Townshend, Serjeant in Col. Humptons Regt. - ... 1783, July 1.-Deposition James Bennet, Serjeant Major Artillery. - 1783, July 1–Deposition Joseph Morgan, Serjeant of Artillery. Copy Read June 12, 1783, Deposition of Benjamin Spyker taken before Mr. Levan of Reading, subject of a Conversation with Ser- jeant Nagle. No. 4. In pursuance of an order of 17th of May, 1784, sent to the Supreme Executive of Pennsylvania, the following papers, Indorsed as follows: - 1. A letter signed Henry Carbery, dated Cape Henlopen, 29th June, IT83, directed Major William Nichols, Merc't, Philadelphia. 2. A letter signed H. Carbery, dated Chester, June 26th, 1783, directed to Mrs. Mary Carbery, St. Mary's, Maryland. 3. A letter signed John Sullivan, dated The Cape, 30th June, 1783, directed Stephen Moylan, Esq., Col. Command. L. D. Philadelphia. 4. A paper signed H. C., J. S., directed Mr. Wm. Huston, and containing these words—Consult your own safety, we cannot possibly get to you. - 5. Report of the Mutiny by Col. Humpton, 24 June, 1783, read in Congress July 3d, 1783.
End of Section 189. Continue to next section or 
Section 190
Page 580
580 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 6. A letter from James Christie to the Supreme Executive of Pennsylvania, & a Copy of Commission or appointment of Officers as a Committee by the non-Coms'd officers & privates in the Bar- racks at Philadelphia, read 30th June, 1783. 7. Demand made by the Mutineers, June 21st, 1783. 8. Papers signed James Bennet, delivered to Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania—Read in Congress, June 30th, 1783. 9. Address of Mutineers to Supreme Executive Council of Penn- sylvania, delivered 25th June, 1783, Read in Congress June 30th, 1783. There are copies of some Depositions which will be sent by next post. No. 5. By the United States in Congress Assembled, May 17th, 1784. On motion of the Delegates of Pennsylvania. Ordered, That the Secretary transmit to the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania, all the papers relative to the case of Henry Carbery, which are on the files of Congress; and that the Secretary in the War office deliver to the said Executive, such papers relative to the said Henry Carbery, as are in his posses. 810Il. - CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. PoRT WARDENs To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Wardens' Office, Philada, May 26th, 1784. Gentlemen, The Board of Wardens of the Port of Philada. beg leave to repre- sent, that injuries frequently happen to the navigation of the Bay & River Delaware, by evil disposed people removing the Buoys placed for the direction and safety of Wessells, and by taking out for Ballast the Fillings of the Piers, whereby considerable expence is incurr'd, and the good intentions of the Legislature frustrated, which is not in the power of the Wardens to detect or prevent, otherwise, than by offering a reward for apprehending and convict- ing such offenders; and as the board apprehend they are not autho. rized to promise such public Reward, they take the liberty to recom- mend the premises to the consideration of your Excellency & the
End of Section 190. Continue to next section or 
Section 191
Page 581
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 581 honorable Council, being well pursuaded that such a measure would have a salutary effect.* We have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Gentlemen, Your most obedient and very humble servants, JOHN DONNALDSON, SAML. CALDWELL, - : THOS. PRYOR, NATHL. FALCONER, - JOHN HAZELWOOD, - * GEORGE ORD, Directed, FRANS. GURNEY. His Excellency the President and the Honorable Supreme Exec- utive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. DELEGATES IN CoNGREss To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Annapolis, 28th May, 1784. y We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellen- cy's letter of the 4th Instant, desiring our Exertions in favour of Mr. Robert Shewell; his papers are now in the hands of a Commit- tee; when they shall have reported, we will use our best endeavors to procure for him all the aid Congress can give in his case. The Inclosed is a Copy of a petition from Zebulon Butler and others, lately laid before Congress.f - With the greatest respect, We have the honor to be, Your Excell’ys most obedt. & most H’ble Servants, THOMAS MIFFLIN, JOHN MONTGOMERY, Directed, - EDW’D HAND. His Excell’y John Dickinson, Esqr., in Council, Philadelphia. Free—Edw'd Hand. - EPHRAIM Douglass To SEG. ARMSTRONG, 1784. Union Town, 29th May, 1784. Sir, In obedience to the instructions of the 30th of April, from your office, I now transmit you a list of the several townships or districts for chusing Justices of the Peace for this County. * See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV., p. 122. f See page 559. 25*
Page 582
582. PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, By the accession of Jacob's-creek to this County, there are two townships added to the return I had the honor to transmit to Coun- cil on the 2d February last,” and as I therein discriminated those townships which had, from those which had not, Justices of the Peace, I will only now further remark that both of these additional townships are destitute of such officer. I should sooner have announced to Council the names of these townships, but that before they were annexed to this county they made but one district, which was divided at our last sessions; and this division being disagreeable to some of the principal inhabitants, (though the district was said to be near fifty miles in length) l ex- pected that at our next sessions the Justices might probably recon- sider the matter, wherefore I thought it might be best to postpone the return so long; but as all the townships which existed previous to the late law for electing Justices of the Peace are established dis- tricts for that purpose, I conceive it will not now be in the power of the Justices to gratify those who complained of this division. There is so seldom a direct conveyance of a letter from this place to Philadelphia, that I expect every communication I can make will be anticipated by some other person having more frequent opportu- nities; but lest my silence might be attributed to inattention, I will give you a sketch of the affairs of this Country, and leave you to judge of the propriety of laying it before the Honorable the Council. The County Commissioners are so much counteracted by the rab- ble of this country, that it appears hardly probable the Taxes will ever be collected on the present mode. In the township of Manallin in particular, which includes this place agreeable to its limits in the Duplicate, the terror of undertaking the duty of Collector, has deter- mined several to refuse it under the high penalty annexed. Two only have accepted it, and these have both been robbed by some ruffians unknown, and in the night, of their Duplicates. The inha- bitants of the other townships have not gone such lengths, but com- plain so much of the hardship and the want of money that I fear wº little is to be hoped from them. n the other hand, the banditti from Bucks-county, or some others equally bad, or, more probably both, have established them- selves in some part of this country not certainly known, but thought to be in the deserted part of Washington county, whence they make frequent incursions into the settlements under cover of the night, terrify the inhabitants, sometimes beat them unmercifully, and always rob them of such of their property as they think proper, and then retire to their lurking places. What seems to confirm the belief of its being the Doanes or their companions, is drawn from the circumstances attending the detection and confinement of one of the gang in Washington county some time ago. After this wretch had been rescued from the Sheriff's guard there, he, with other of his companions came to the house of the person who was the princi- * See page 553. f
Page 583
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 583 pal in taking him, robbed him of his horse and other property, and cautioned him against meddling with any of them thereafter; and this also, added to the frequency of their robberies in that county, favours the belief of their residence there. This county, however, and even this town has suffered by them, though they came in the character of thieves, and not of robbers here. And yet nothing has been attempted hitherto to punish or bring them to justice; partly, perhaps because there are not yet a sufficient number provoked by their losses, but principally from the improbability of succeeding in the attempt. For, though they cannot be pointed out with certainty or prosecuted with success, there must be too many in this country who give them support and assistance, and who would readily notify them of any preparation making against them; and from the repre- sentation of their number, which is said to have been twenty-eight at the forcing of the gaol in Washington, nothing can be undertaken against them without such preparation as must make it very gene- rally known. To these reasons, perhaps a third may be safely added which will have its weight with many, especially those who consider themselves most exposed—the fear of drawing upon them- selves and their families the resentment of these justly dreaded ruffians. - - - With great respect, I am, Sir, Your very humble and Obedient servant, EPHRAIM DOUGLASS.” John Armstrong, junior, Esquire, Secretary. * John DoNNALDson To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Philadelphia, June 17th, 1784. Sir, - As I shall embark in a few days for Europe where my private affairs urgently call me—I beg your Excellency and the honorable supreme executive council will be pleased to appoint a warden of the Port of Philadelphia in my stead. - I have the honor to be with great respect, Sir, Your most obedient and very humble servant. JOHN DONNALDSON." Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq., President of the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. * Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 150, he was succeeded by Joseph Bullock, June 26.
Page 584
584 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. WARDENs of PHILADELPHIA to PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Wardens Office, Philadelphia, 18th June, 1784. Sir, The board of Wardens of the port of Philade, beg leave to inform your Excellency and the Honorable Council that Mr. John Donnald- son* one of the Board being on the eve of his departure for Europe hath resigned his office, by which his place is become vacant, and as the duties of their appointment frequently require a full Board, they request your Excellency & honors to appoint a warden in his stead. We have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Your Excellency's most obedient and very humble servants, SAM. CALDWELL," THOS. PRYOR, GEORGE ORD, NATH. FALCONER, JOHN HAZELWOOD. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickenson Esq’r., President of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. CoMMISSIONERs of WASHINGTON Co. To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Washington County, June 28th, 1784. Sir, This County as well as that of Fayette has for some time past been greatly Infested by a troop of Robbers from the lower parts of the state, namely Doanes and others who by frequent Burglaries and Robberies under the Countenance and protection of Divers Evil disposed persons amongst ourselves, have reduced us to the necessity of calling out parties of Militia and making general search for the said Burglars and their accomplices; whereupon the said Burglars, with numbers of Horses, Negroes and other Valuable property of which they had Robbed the Inhabitants (in the most Daring and Insolent manner) set off for Detroit, our party pursued above one hundred miles from this place before they overtook them. However we have now got of the said party lodged in the Goal of this County, the following persons, viz. Abraham Doane, one who calls himself Thomas Richason and two women who profess themselves wives to some of the party, the remainder having escaped our most vigilant pursuit, altho' we have Recovered the greatest part of the property. We have also Divers others in Confinement and under Recognizance as accomplices, and Expect yet to make further Discoveries, but our * See page 583. º
Page 585
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 585 Goal being Very Insufficient, and this same Abraham Doane having been Rescued from it once before by an armed party (of which you have had Information) we are obliged to keep a strong guard con- stantly over them, and not having seen a supplement to the act for apprehending those Willians (which we are Informed Exists) are at a loss what to Do with them, therefore prays the Direction of Council in the premises. We have the honor to be, your Excellency's Most obedient and very humble servants. VAN SWEARINGEN, JAMES MARSHEL, Directed, THO. SCOTT. Public Service. His Excellency, President Dickenson, Philadelphia. WARDENs of PHILADELPHIA To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Port of Philadelphia, Wardens' Office, June 24th, 1784. Sir, For the satisfaction of your Excellency & the Honorable Supreme Executive Council, the Board of Wardens beg leave to refer to the inclosed State of their Expenditures, so far as they have disbursed on public service since their appointment, by which you will see that nearly the whole of the sum you were pleased to grant them the 5th May last is already expended. The Wardens flatter themselves that their disbursements will be found to be made with proper Oeconomy, and to answer the design of the Legislature in improving the navigation of the Bay & River Delaware; but they would beg leave farther to observe, that the service is not yet Performed, the above sum being expended Chiefly in preparation for the services meant to be done, which were specified in a rough estimate they had the Honor to lay before you, and that there are Bills not yet brought in, to a considerable amount, which must be paid immediately. To complete the business, they estimate the further sum of at least Fifteen hundred pounds will be imme- diately requisite which thcy Respectfully pray may be granted them as soon as may be. - We have the honor to be, with great respect, Sir, your most obedient and very humble servants, FRAN'S GURNEY,. THO's PRYOR, GEORGE ORD, NATH'L FALCONER, SAM’L CALDWELL, * His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., page 150.
Page 586
586 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, Account of monies expended by the Wardens of the Port of Phila- delphia out of the sum of One Thousand five hundred pounds - received by them by order of the Hon’ble Supreme Executive Council, dated 5th May, 1784, for the purpose of improving the navigation of the Bay and River Delaware. 1784. May 14 Paid Davis Bevan for Sloop Two Friends, now called the Delaware................ 36650 * 19 Paid Luke Shields his own & men's ad- vance wages—belonging to Sloop Delaware.................................... 24 “ “ Paid M. Keely for 1,332 Gallons oil for Light House....................... ....... 210 18 “ “ Paid J. & R. Morton for Beef & Pork for the Sloop Delaware.................. 8 10 “ 25 Paid Christian Emeck porterage of Oil 1 5.6 Paid James Pearson for an order drawn º M. Gurney on David Rittenhouse, sq., being the balance due him for work at Light House last winter....... 86 1 “ 27 Paid Wingate Newman for a Hulk to fix a Beacon on Cross Lodge Shoal, in the Bay................................ 43 “ “ Paid Connyingham & Nesbitt for Stone Ballast for Piers & Hulk............... 60 June 2 Paid Joseph Marsh, towards improving º - the Hulk to fix a Beacon on the Cross Lodge....................................... 105 “ 9 Paid drawing two plotts of Chevaux de Frize................................... - - - - - 10 “ “ Paid Greenfield & Humphreys for a Comboose for Sloop Delaware......... 8 15 9 Paid James Pearson on Account of ad- vance wages to workmen, & materials for repairing the Light House......... 127 10 “ “ Paid C. Beakley for a Cart for Light House....................................... 22 “ 12 Paid for Painting the Cabin of Sloop ' ' Delaware .................................. '' 4 10 “ “, Paid Samuel Williams for nails for Light - House............. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 3 6 8 “ 17 Paid Sam'l Church for Boards, planks, &c., for Light House & Sloop Dela- Ware. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 17 “ 18 Paid A. St. Clair for a Cable, bo't a - vendue, for the Hulk................... 6 4 tº «
This page contains an image.
End of Section 191. Continue to next section or 
Section 192
Page 587
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 587 º "une 19 Paid J. Harrison for a Telescope for Sloop Delaware........................... 3 6 22 Paid Ord & Blewer, for Ship Chandlery & Cabin furniture for Sloop Delaware & for L't House.......................... 49 2 2 * Paid Gurney & Smith for a Barrel Rum for workmen at L't House, &c. 5 5 4.1434 1 1 CERTIFICATE OF WARDENs—CHEvAUx DE FRISE, 1784. Warden's Office, Philada., 30th June, 1784. We, the Subscribers, do certify, that Levy Hollingsworth and Arthur Donaldson have made such progress in removing the Chevaux de Frise, as in our Opinion justly to entitle them to receive the second payment of One thousand five #. Pounds. * - FRAN'S GURNEY, JOHN HAZELWOOD, GEORGE ORD, Wardens of the Port. JOS. BULLOCK, SAM’L CALDWELL.” His Excellency the President, & the Hon’ble The Supreme Ex- ecutive Council. CoMMIssionERs or WASHINGTON County To SEC'Y ARMSTRONG, 1784. f S Washington County, July 9th, 1784. 1r, - Your Circular Letter of the 14th April last we have received, we assure you that we are Disposed to Discharge the trust reposed in us with the Greatest punctuality; but the Distressed situation of our frontier County together with a Dissposition in a number of people for some time past to oppose taxation makes our Business very Difficult, we have not yet been able to Collect the small sum of state tax laid in this County but expect to have it done very soon, and will transmit it by the Earliest opportunity. - We are sir, , , . your most obedient humble servants, GEORGE McCORMICK, a • DIMAS LINDSLEY. Directed, Commissioners of W. C.” Public service. John Armstrong, Jun'r, Esq’r, Philadelphia. -i. * See Col. Roc., Vol. XIV., p. 158, † See page 236.
Page 588
588 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. EPHRAIM Douglass To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Si Union Town, 11th July, 1784. 1T, - In obedience to the commands of your honorable Board of the 5th of June last I take this first opportunity of informing Council that there has yet been no sheriff for the County of Fayette seperate from that of Westmoreland, the Sheriff of that County continuing to do the duty of that office in this as before the division and no bond has been taken for his performance of it in this county distinct from the other. Taking it for certain Council have been informed of the capture of some of the robbers who have lately persued the same practices here for which they fled hither, I will not trouble them with the particulars of that transaction. Every thing in our power has been done to discover their connections in this quarter, without any certainty of having succeeded; several have been apprehended on suspicion and three from a greater concurrence of circumstances, have by the advice of the Attorney for the state, been recognized to the next court of oyer and terminer for the county. The others have been released without security. I can make no other communications of importance enough to merit the attention of Council, unless what relates to the Taxes of this county, some small sums have been collected in some of the townships, one of the collectors has been robbed of what he had gathered by the same banditti, it is thought, who committed the other robberies in this county,+some attempts have been made to raise the money by the sale of goods taken by the collectors for the taxes, but no one would bid for them. Thus the laws are eluded without being openly opposed. With the utmost respect for every member of your honorable body, I have the honor to be your Excellency's most humble and devoted servant, Directed, EPHRAIM DOUGLASS. His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President. WARDENs of PHILADELPHIA To PRES. DICKINSON, 1784. Wardens' Office, Philadelphia, July 13th, 1784. Sir, - The Wardens of the Port of Philadelphia beg leave to inform your Excellency and the Honorable Supreme Executive Council, that they have succeeded in placing a Beacon on the shoal called the Cross Ledge in the Bay of Delaware, and are happy in a firm belief that it will be found to be a very material improvement to the navigation. -
Page 589
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 589 The Wardens hope to be excused for the Liberty they find them- selves under of again requesting the attention of Council to their application of the 22d June last,” for a supply of cash to enable them to continue their plan of improvement. They also beg leave to inform Council that the Sloop Delaware is now in port and shall be ready to attend whenever Council may be pleased to signify their pleasure. If, however, Council should not have occasion for her before Ten or Twelve days, it will afford the Wardens an opportunity of employing her in carrying down a load of Ballast to the Beacon, and some oil for the Light House, which will soon be wanted. The Wardens' accounts for the three past months being nearly prepared, will be laid before the Comptroler Gen'l immediately, by which their expenditures will be seen, and they have no doubt will be found to be made with proper oeconomy, and agreeable to the design of their appointment. I have the honor to be, with great respect, Your Excellency's Most Obedient & very humble servant, By order of the Board, FRANS. GURNEY, P't. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President of the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Penna. - WARDENs of PHILADELPHIA To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Wardens' Office, Philadelphia, July 23rd, 1784. Sir, The Wardens of the Port beg leave to inform your Excellency & the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council, that two of their Board are just returned from viewing the proceedings of the Con- tractors for removing the Chevaux de Frize, and it is with pleasure they communicate that the Contractors have already effectually re- moved fifteen Frames § list whereof is Inclosed) and are in a fair way of removing in a short time all those that most Obstruct the Navigation of the River. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, Your Excellency's Most Obedient - and very humble servants, By order of the Board, JACOB S. HOWELL, Sec'y. His Excellency John Dickenson, Esqr., President of the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. * See page 585.
End of Section 192. Continue to next section or 
Section 193
Page 590
590 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. SITUATION of THE CHEvAux DE FRIZE THAT HAVE BEEN WEIGHED, Three at Billingsport. One at Fort Island. One at Red Bank. One Buoyed off Timber Creek mouth. One on the point of League Island. Two at Eagle point. Three at Gloucester. One below Thompson's Wharf. One on Windmill Island. One by the information of Messrs. Hollingsworth & Donaldson, delivered to & cut up by Mr. Conrow, REsolution of Congress, 1784. By the Committee of the States. July 27, 1784. * The Committee to whom was referred the report of a committee of Congress upon their order of the 17th of June 1788, “That a Com- mittee be appointed to consider what further measures may be neces- sary to compel persons who have received public monies to account” Report; That upon inspecting the Journals of Congress they find, that Congress did on the 27th February 1782 resolve, “That it be recommended to the several legislatures of these United States, to make provision by law for the speedy and effectual recovery from individuals, of debts due and effects belonging to the United States.” That on searching the files in the office of the Secretary of Congress, your Committee do not find that any of the legislatures of the res- pective states have made the provision recommended to them to be made by the said resolution of Congress; and as it is the opinion of your Committee, that the interest of the United States hath already suffered greatly for want of such provision & doth require that it should be made by the several legislatures without loss of time; Therefore, Resolved, That it be most earnestly recommended to such of the legislatures of these United States, as may not have yet complied with the said recommendation of Congress, to enact laws in com- pliance therewith, as soon as may be, and for empowering such person or persons as already are or hereafter shall be appointed by the United States in Congress Assembled for that purpose, in their name and in their behalf, to commence and to prosecute to final decree, judgement & execution any action or actions, bill, suit or plaint either in law or equity which may be proper and necessary not only for the recovery from individuals of debts due and effects belonging
Page 591
PENNSYLVANIA. ARCHIVES 1784, 591 to the United States; but to recover, secure or maintain any rights' properties or interests to the said United States appertaining or for any injury or damages whatsoever which they have sustained or may sustain therein. And that it be further recommended to the legis- latures of the several states to frame any act or acts which they may pass in pursuance of the foregoing recommendation in such manner as may produce a speedy & effectual decision of all such bills, actions, suits or plaints as may be commenced, sued or prosecuted for the purposes aforesaid. m CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. Indorsed, July 27th, 1784. Pennsylvania. Resolve of Congress for recovering from Individuals debts due and effects belonging to the United States. 2. If any Law has been passed on this act let the Secretary send to the Secretary of Congress a Copy of the act entituled “an act for the settlement of the public accounts of the United States of America, passed March 20, 1783. LT. W.M. Scott To CouncIL, 1784. York, July 28th, 1784. Sir, On the 24th instant, I rec'd your Circular Letter, and in compli- ance with the Order of Council, send the following Report of Arms, &c., in our County, viz.: Seventy-five Musquets, Twenty Bayonets, Eight Cartouch Boxes, and Eight Canteens. - , , , am with due respect, * * Your most Obedient Humble Servant, WM. SCOTT, Lieut. of Y. C. º Directed, - The Honourable John Armstrong, Esqr., Secretary in Council, Philadelphia. Favr'd pr. Col. Miller. PREs. DickINson To MessRs. Boyd AND ARMSTRong, 1784. In Council, July 29th, 1784. Gentlemen, You are so well acquainted with the intentions of Council in appointing you Commissioners, that it is unnecessary to say much to you upon the subject. You will use the utmost diligence to for-
End of Section 193. Continue to next section or 
Section 194
Page 592
592 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. ward the embodying and equipping of the Militia, so that they may march with all possible expedition. We doubt not, but you will effectually guard, that in their movements the Troops are not ex- posed to any surprizal; and that the Militia of the Counties of Northampton and Northumberland may support each other. You will act in such manner as to convince the Insurgents that while we are determined to have Justice rendered to all persons without dis- tinction, we are also resolved to preserve peace and good order within the Commonwealth. - If this end cannot be attained without employing force, you will give such orders as shall appear to you most advisable, for executin the laws of the State, and impressing a just Respect for them.* HoN. Edw'D HAND To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Annapolis, 30th July, 1784. Sir, I this morning in a hurry informed your Excellency that an ex- change of The Ratification of the definitive treaty between the U. S. & G. Britain had taken place the 12th of May last at Paris—I should have said Passy, I beg pardon for the mistake, & am with much respect your Excell’y most obed’t & very humble serv't, - - EDW’D HAND. Directed, His Excell’y, John Dickinson, Esq’r, in Council, Philadelphia. Free Edw'd Hand. OFFICERs of PENNSYLVANIA LINE TO PREs, DICKINson, 1784. Sir, Philadelphia, July 30th, 1784. The officers of the line of this State have so repeatedly addressed the Council & Legislature, and have experienced so much attention to their remonstrances, and their distresses have been so often re- lieved, that it is with diffidence we again resume a subject which cannot but be troublesome to you, and we assure you it is painful to us. We have reason to think it has been a prevailing opinion that the Troops of this State have received greater advances from the State than those of any other. The contrary will appear from the inclosed papers, to which we beg leave to refer you. To the Virtue of the men in this State, in labouring to support the Confederation by their attention to Continental measures alone, * See their appointment as Commissioners, vol. xiv., p. 168. The fore- going appear to be their instructions, but are not recorded.
Page 593
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 593 do we attribute their quota of Troops being left so much in arrears. We are as deeply impressed as perhaps any set of men, with the propriety and necessity of still supporting the Federal Union, but we hope, now that the danger is at last removed to a greater distance than when the War existed, particular attention from the several States to the distresses of their own Citizens will not be attended with bad consequences. Sound policy as well as Justice points out the propriety of all public servants being treated impartially. We apprehend this cannot be done in the present situation of the affairs of the United States, in any other mode than by the several States adopting ways & means to bring their own Citizens on a level with their sister States, in money matters—on this head we shall onl add that we consider the officers and soldiers of this State far behind the public Creditors of this or any other State. The Act of Assembly for appropriating a Tract of land for the Troops, we conceive requires sundry amendments, which will doubt- less occur to you if you will be pleased to turn to it. We have every reason to believe your Excellency & Council are disposed to give your influence to reasonable & just measures, and shall not therefore trouble you with any further detail, nor presume to point out a mode, but request you will be pleased to take such steps as you shall judge most expedient. We have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedient servants, At St CLAIR, ANT, WAYNE, Wm. IRVINE, Directed, RICH4 BUTLER. His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire. CoMMIssionERs of WESTMORELAND Co. To PREs. DICKINson, - 1784. Westmoreland County, Aug't 5th, 1784. Honorable Gentlemen, Inclosed we send you the Depositions of the Collector of Spring- hill Township & hopes you will proceed in it as you in your Wisdoms shall think meet, Mr. Wm. Jack the bearer one of the Commissioners can inform your Honors more particularly the cir- cumstances of the County. We are with the greatest respect your Honors most obedient and very Humble Servants, JOSEPH McGARRAUGH, ALEX. BARR, Directed, Commiss’rs. His Excellency, the President of the State of Pennsylvania. Favored by Mr. Wm. Jack. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 151.
Page 594
594 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. No. 1. Deposition of James BELL, 1784. Fayette County Ss. The examination of James Bell of George Township and County aforesaid taken on oath before me the subscriber a Justice of the peace in & for s” County the 5th Day of June, 1784, who saith that in the night between the 2d and 3d days of this Inst. he being in the Dwelling House of Philip Jenkins Collector of the Township of Springhill in sº County and about nine o’Clock of the same night Came in three men with pistoles Cocked in their hands who Did violently assault & Beat him the s” Jenkins and Demanded his Dublicate and money with their Cocked pistols at his Breast and he got up & went to the Room where his Dublicate was while one stayed and kept said Deponent on his seat but he understood they Robb'd s” Jenkins of his Dublicate warrant & money & threatening if Ever he had any Concern with the Business § would burn him & all he had, or if any other persons had any Concern with it they would do so to them, one of them was a Tall man with a Hunting shirt on, another was of a middle size, had on a Hunting shirt and trowsers, the other was a less sized man with a Hunting shirt & Trowsers on and all their faces were streaked with Black. JAMES BELL. Taken, made & signed the Day & year above written before me. ROBERT RICHEY. No. 2. DEPoSITION of PHILIP JENKINs, 1786. Fayette County Ss. The Examination of Philip Jenkins, Collector of Springhill Township, County afores'd, Taken upon Oath before me a justice of the peace in and for s” County the seventh Day of June, A. D. 1784, who saith that in the Night Between the 2d and 3d Day of this Instant Between 9 & 10 o'clock of the same, there suddenly Rush'd in at the Door of my Dwelling house three men each one having in one hand a Pistol in the other a Club, and as quick as the step'd on the floor. Each one Cock'd his pistol (and alf the family together was sitting before them and also some others that had come to accompany us sitting up with a sick Child then in the Cradle.) then they said, Every one sit still the first that moves is a Dead person, then turning their faces right to me said where is the man of the House with that they step'd towards me and said here is the Rascal and Deliver up your Duplicate and papers, with that gave me a stroke on the head and I said pray give me time and got up to gº into the Room to get the papers and two of them followed me and I gave them the Duplicate and warrant, now said they Deliver your Cash, then said I my Cash or what I have Collected is so trifling it is not worth your while to Robb me, you Damn Rascal said they
Page 595
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 595 Donts tand to prate, and with that did most violently Beat me with their Olubs on my head, then I pull'd out what I had in my Pocket and said Dont abuse me in such a manner there is the money, then they said give us more, I said I had none, with that the held their Cock'd Pistoles to my Breast and swore saying they would Blow me thro’, while the Pistoles was at my Breast, I said, Gentlemen Do not I beg of you take all my money for if you want to stop the tax lifting your haveing the papers is sufficient and Do not be so Cruel, then they grew furious and again Beat me and said give us your pistol I said I own’d none upon which one of them said to the other, I seen him have one, then I said, it was none of mine and that it was Col. Gaddis's, upon which they said Gaddis was a Clever fellow he Deliver'd up like a man but I was a Damn'd Rascal, I Deny'd what I had and then made me show them the pistol, then they swore they would search all the House but they wou'd have all the money and accordingly one of them set about it with a Candle in one hand and his pistol and Club under his arm while the other two men kept guard and when this Searcher for the tax found the money it made him merry, see here, said he taking up a handful of Crowns what a heap and the Damn'd Rascal Deny'd it, thus he went on and searched Every place in the House till he found all the money both publick and Private that was in the house and then all three stood before me and Demanded of me if Ever I would have any more to Do with tax gathering, I said I Did not think I should, you Damn son of a bitch, says they, if you do go Collecting any more and Distressing for the tax you will be a Dead man and we will burn all you have, God Damn you, says they, we have great mind now to smash you to the Earth and lift up their Clubs, but only one beat me and he not on my head but on my side, saying, the first man that is concern'd with tax gathering is or shall Be a Dead man, they also Robb'd me of a pocket Bottle, my Razor and some soap, one of them was a man about six foot or more Large Eyes inclining to clear, large nose and mouth and Remarkable long neck, having on a hunting shirt, yellowish under jacket having his middle tied with a spoted handkerchief Red and white woolen over- alls, and the other was a middle siz'd man with Trowsers and hunting shirt on, the other was something less, had on a trowsers and hunting shirt, they all had their faces streak'd with Black two of them Could speak Dutch, one had they Dutch Dialect on his tongue, But I knew them not, nor had no suspicion who they were by their voice or features, the sum of money that was public property that I was Robb'd of was twenty one pounds, fifteen shilling and seven pence, my money was about forty shillings. - PHILIP JENKINS. The above Wrote by the Deponent & swore to before me. JOSEPH MCG ARRAUGH.
Page 596
596 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. * . CouncIL of CENSORs To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Sir, I am directed by Council to write to you for the minutes of the Council of safety acting under a Law passed the 13th day of October, 1777 as may be seen by the following Resolution, (viz.) “Resolved, That the Prest. do write to the Honble. Executive Council to furnish this Council with the minutes of the Council of Safety acting under a Law passed the 13th October, 1777. I am Sir, your very Humble Servant, JOSEPH HART, Presidt Pro. Tem. Directed, John Dickinson Esquire, President, and the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. Augt. 6th, 1784. Council of CENsors to PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Chamber of the Council of Censors, August 7th, 1784. Sir Pursuant to a Resolution of the Council of Censors, I request your Excellency and the Honorable the Council to transmit to this Council the Book or Books in which the Minutes respecting Con- fiscated Property are kept. with great respect, I am your Excellency's & the Honble. the Council most obed. & humb. Servt. JOSEPH HART, Prest. Pro. Tem. Indorsed. [Read and the book requested deld. to the Secy.] Directed, His Excellency the President and the Honble. the Supreme Executive Council. MEssRs Bowen AND BEATTY To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Philada., Augt. 13th, 1784. Sir - we are sorry to inform your Excellency in Council that we have been mistaken in calculating the necessary time for issuing the final settlement Certificates in the City. The number of original proprietors applying here greatly exceed our expectations the many
Page 597
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. 597 © incorporations that have taken place in the Line render the search for individual accounts in the different Regts. and at different periods tedious & puzzling, but much more so when powers of attorney and transfers are produced whichseldom recite either, of these we have registered more than eight hundred and more are daily coming in. We have endeavoured to put off Issuing to the purchasers 'till the original proprietors who continue to crowd on us decrease in num- ber and we are incessantly importuned & sometimes threaten’d by Peculators, some of whose demands on us would take several days to settle. For these reasons we beg Council to give sanction to the follow- ing times & places of issue instead of those we have advertized, and we will spare no pains to give timely & general notice of the alteration. In Philada, to Sept. 9th. at Easton from Sept. 13th to the 19th. at Reading from Sept. 22d to Octo. 8d. at Lebanon from Octo. 5th to the 13th. at Lancaster from Octo. 15th to the 24th. at York town from Octo. 26th to Nov. 7th. at Carlisle from Nov. 10th to the 25th. We have consulted some Gentlemen who are of opinion that it is not necessary for us to attend at Fort Pitt and as the season will be far advanced we beg Council to dispence with our attendance there. We have the honor to be, your Excellency's most obt. Hbble. Servts. T. B. BOWEN, E. BEATTY. } Agts. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President in Council. DEPoSITION RESPECTING AARON DoANE, 1784. The following persons whose names are hereunto annexed, proving the identity of a Certain Aaron Doan formerly of Bucks County in the province of Pennsylvania taken in Baltimore County, Maryland, by Capt'n Joseph McClennan & Aamos Ogden” as the proscribed Aaron Doan by the proclamation of the Honourable the Council of this Commonwealth bearing date the 13° day of September, 1783, are as follows—taken August 14*, 1784. Mr. Mark Walpeny sayeth that he cannot say Certainly, that he is the Aaron Doan proscribed, but is Certain that the prisoner is the reputed son of Joseph Doan of the Township of Plumstead in Bucks County & hath Knowledge of said Doan about thirteen years since and further sayeth not. MARK HAPENY. * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 179, and page 348 of this Vol. Vol. X. —26
Page 598
598. PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. º Capt" Robert Gibson, sayeth, I have known the prisoner Aaron Doan as proscribed in the Proclamation of the Honourable the Gouncil of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania bearing date this Thirteenth day September, 1783, and know’d him from his childhood having laboured for me some time & that he the said Aaron is the reputed son of Joseph Doan the Elder, of Bucks County in the State of Pennsylvania. ROB'T GIBSON. Done in the goal of the City and County of Philad'a, August 14* 1784. Present, Thos. PRoctor, Sup’t. I do hereby certify, that Messrs. Mark Halfpenny & Robert Gibson, being severally sworn on the holy Evangelists of *. God, did depose & say, that the contents of what they have before, on the other side of this leaf, respectively subscribed, are just & true to the best of their knowledge and belief. Given under my hand at Philadelphia, this 14th day of August, 1784. THO. McKEAN. Indorsed, August 16th, 1784. Certificate and depositions relating to Aaron Doan, an attainted Traytor. Read in Council, August 16th, 1784, & order drawn in favor of Captain Joseph McClellan and Amos Ogden for £300 00. To all whom these May concern: This is to certify that I have Received by the Hands of Captain Joseph M-Cleland and Amos Ogden, The Body of a certain Aaron Doane committed To my Keeping by The Honorable Thomas M“Kean, Esquire, Doctor of Laws and Chief Justice of the common- wealth of Pennsylvania, who confesseth this Day that he is the Son of Joseph Doane, the Elder late of Bucks county and brother To Joseph Doane the Younger, Now under Sentence of Death in the county of Bucks and that he is the same Aaron Doane Named in the Proclamation Issued by his Excellency The President and the Supreame Executive Council of the commonwealth of Pennsylvania aforesaid, and he the said Aaron sayeth There is no other Aaron Doane but himself and that he saw his Name in with his Brothers and others in the same Proclamation, and I have his Body Now in the Goal of the City and County of Philadelphia, August the 14th JOHN REYNOLDS, Gaoler.” Countersigned by THos, M*KEAN. * See page 848.
End of Section 194. Continue to next section or 
Section 195
Page 599
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 599 RETURN of OFFICERs of MILITIA, CUMBERLAND County. A Return of the names and Rank of the officers of the Militia of º Cumberland County. No. First Battal". Lt. Col. Sam Irwin. Maj. John M.Donald. Captains. Lieutenants. Ensigns. 1st. James Sayers, James Brooks, 2d. 3d. William Dunnon, James Giffon, John Bell, 4th. Thomas Laird, Robert MºMean, Thomas Starr, 5th. 6th. John McCormick, Sam Clendening, David Bell, 7th. William Wiley, Thom' Warton, John Noble, 8th. James Bell. David Walker. Mathias Sailor. Second Battallion. Lt. Col. Pat Jack. Major John Holliday. 1st. William Rannells, Robert Thompson, James Moore, 2d. William Smith, Jeremiah Rankin, Joseph Kyle, 3d. Thomas M-Dowell, Sam' Me Ilhatton, Edward Welsh, 4th. Joseph Culbertson, Reuben Gillespey, William Sharp, 5th. 6th. Philip Daviss, W" Duffield, Jun', Samuel Dougharty, 7th. John M'Connell, James Caldwell, John Caldwell. 8th. Samuel Patton. David Sheilds. John Dougharty. Third Battalion. Lt. Col. Tho' Gibson.Major John Jordan. 1st. William Swancey, Sam Woods, Robert McBride, 2d. William Lindsay, Robert Campble, William Harvey, 3d. John Carothers, John Love, Henry Hayes, 4th. Thomas Kennedy,” William Wallace, Philip Miller, 5th. Will" Denney, Abraham Line, William Piper, 6th. James Douglass, David Williamson, Martin Bower, 7th. Thomas Brisline, Samuel Stuart, Robert Barkley, 8th. James Irwin, Fourth Batta. John Patterson, George Leffever. LC"R" Culbertson. Major Isaac Miller, 1st. Mathew Thompson, Alex” Thompson, James Johnston, 2d. 3d. Alexander Peebles, Tho Cummins, Jacob Millfron, 4th. Noah Araham, Archibald Elliott, Robert McConnell, William Strain, Sam Walker, William Elder, Will" Moorhead. Theophilus Cesna, James Johnston, John Anderson, Robert Quigley, 5th. 6th. 7th. 8th. * Election disputed. William Scott, Thomas Barr, John Camble, David Simeral.
Page 600
600 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 1st. 2d. 3d 4th. 5th. 6th. 7th. 8th. 1st. 2d. 3d 1st. 2d. 3d 4th. 5th. 6th. 7th. 8th. 1st. 2d. 3d 4th. 5th. 6th. 7th. 8th. 4th. 5th. 6th. 7th. 8th. Captains. Fifth Battalion. Robert Scott, John Buchanan, Edw' Grahams, James Miller, Michael Marshal, John Beattey, William Trusdale, John Gill, Sixth Battalion. Marshal Standly, Hugh McClellon, James Martain, James M*Clure, Richard Coulter, James Burns, William Holt, Alex" Robison, Seventh Battalion. Captains. James Hurrall. Epenetus Hart, James Moore, John Stuart, John Riddle, Will" Wilson, Eighth Battalion. Tho' Johnston, Hugh Wiley, . John McConkey, Jacob Stotlar, Daniel Clapsadler, Will" Berryhill, John Andrews, John Stitt. Lieut". Ensigns. L. Cºl Dav" Mitchell.Major James Fisher. James M*Lure, James Officer, James McCabe, Will" Rodgers, John Richardson, James Allen, Daniel McClintock, Robert M. Kee, Francis Cowan, Will" Graham, Will" Galbreath, James Beattey, James Blaine, Archib" Lowdon, Sam' Logan, John Gardner. L' Cºl Al McIlhatton. Major Rob Means. George Mitchel, Henry Huble, Joseph Coulter, John Reed, Joseph Adams, Andrew Small, Moses Thompson, John Beatty, James Dickson, William Bratton, Jr. Robert Lodimore, John Kelly, John Lyons, James Narey, George Bratton, Jacob Surabar. Lt Col. W." McCoy. Mºi. He McCallister. Lieutenants. Ensigns. Will” Stuart, John Robison, Peter Lintner, James Neilson, John Kearns, Samuel Other, Francis Inness, John McConnell, Will" Riddle, Stephen Tenniss, Will" Hardy, David Clayton. Lt Col. Ja" Young. Mr Ter" Campble. Richard M*Lene, John Irwin, Archibald Thompson.John Wilkins, Peter Snider, Jun'. Moses Blakburn, Samuel Stotlar, James Robison, Tho' Wallace, John Young, Will" Downey, James M*Intire, Peter Bonebrick. Joseph Thorn. Officers of the Troop of light Dragoons. Captain. John Johnston. Lieutº. Cornet, John McCurdy. Thomas Alexander. I do hereby Certify that the above is a true Return of the officers of Cumberland County Militia as far as I got returns, or was able to * Removed since the election.
Page 601
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 601 make appointments at this time given under my hand this 18th day of August, 1782. AB- SMITH, Indorsed, L' Cum" County. February 23rd, 1784. Cumberland County, Return of Militia Officers, Com' issued. Copy. DELEGATES IN CoNGREss-REMovAL or PAPERs, &c., 1784. Whereas the honorable the Delegates from the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts & New Jersey, did on Wednesday, the Eleventh day of the present month of August, leave the City of Annapolis, and set out for their respective homes, whereby the Committee of the States hath been reduced to a number insufficient to do any manner of business. And whereas the continuance to meet from day to day of the remaining members, without the power to do any public act, will be unnecessary, and as they do not conceive there is the smallest hope that a sufficient number of Delegates can again be assembled at Annapolis to enable the Committee of the States to proceed to business before the time appointed for the meeting of Congress, pur- suant to their adjournment, and it is proper that the public papers & records should be removed as speedily as may be to Philadelphia, till offices can be prepared for their reception at Trenton. The undersigned Delegates have recommended to the Secretary of Con- gress to take order for the immediate removal and safe arrangement and disposition of the Papers & records of Congress. Annapolis, State of Maryland, Thursday, 19th August, 1784. (Signed,) S. HARDY, Delegate from Virginia, and Chairman of the Commº". EDWD. HAND, Delegate from Pennsylva”. JEREM’H T. CHASE, Delegate from Maryland. RICH'D DOBBS SPAIGHT, Delegate from N. Carolina. JACOB READ, Delegate from S. Carolina. WM. HOUSTOUN, Delegate from Georgia. The Undersigned Delegates have also advised the Chairman forthwith to write to the Supreme Executive of the several States unrepresented in the Committee of the States, informing, them of the actual situation of the Committee, & of the present disposition of the papers & records of Congress, that they may respectively send
Page 602
602 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. forward a delegate to the City of Philada, or to Trenton, if the papers & records of Congress shall have been previously lodged in that place, in order that a Committee of the States may be assem- bled and be enabled as early as possible to proceed to business. . (Signed,) EDWD. HAND, - RICH'D DOBBS SPAIGHT, JACOB READ, WM. HOUSTON. 19th Aug't, 1784. Gov. HARRison, of WA., To PREs. Dickinsos, 1784. Virginia in Council, August 21, 1784. Sir, I could never procure a copy of the Entries made with the Sur- veyor of Yohogania County for the Lands which have fallen into your State, till late last night, which puts it out of my power to forward them to your Excellency by this post, as it is necessary to reserve a Copy of them for fear of accidents in the conveyance. I will certainly do myself the honor to transmit them by the next post if no private opportunity should offer sooner. I have the honor to be with sentiments of the most perfect esteem, your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servant, Directed, BENJ. HARRISON. His Excellency President Dickinson. MESSRs. BowFN AND BEATTY To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Philada, Aug. 26th, 1784. Sir, We still continue so greatly hurried in business that we must intreat the indulgence of Council to defer giving in our answer to the Memorial of Messrs. Bradford & Power till to-morrow. This favor of one day more will add to the many obligations already bestowed on, Sir, your Excellencies & the Councils Most obedient servants, T. B. BowFN, Directed, E. BEATTY. His Excellency The President in Council. Gov. HARRIsoN of WA. To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Si Virginia, Council Chamber, August 28, 1784. 1r i have the honor to enclose you a Copy of the Entries made with the Commissioners appointed by an Act of the Assembly of
Page 603
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 603 this State in May, 1779, for the purpose of settling the titles of claimers to unpatented Lands under the present and former govern- ment, previous to the Establishment of the Commonwealth's Land Office, and also the Entries made with the Surveyors of the Coun- ties of Yohogania, Monongalia & Ohio. Your Excellency will find by searching into the Entries that in some instances the claimants have made their Entries, both with the Commissioners and Surveyors, yet as this was only intended to make sure of their Lands, I hope it will be attended with no bad consequences to them. I am informed by a Certificate of Mr. Johnston's at the foot of his return, that he hath but just received the books and papers of the unhappy Colo. Crawford,” and that they are in such confusion that he cannot at present make a return of the Entries made with him. As this Gentleman is a good officer, I make no doubt but he will forward the List as soon as he can make it out, in which case it shall be my care to transmit it to your Excellency. v Warious complaints have reached me of injustice done the seve- ral Claimants by your Commissioners or Surveyors, but I place such implicit confidence in the justice of your Excellency and your Assembly, that I shall pay no attention to them till they coule better authenticated than they have hitherto done. I am with sentiments of the most perfect regard and esteem, Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble servant, Directed, BENJ’N HARRISON. His Exc'y President Dickenson. w Formation of FRANKLIN County, 1784. To the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. Hearing that a new County is Struck off called Franklin, and understanding that Mr. Edward Crawford, junr., has applied to be Prothonotary thereof, and that he is not Present himself, We beg leave to recommend him as a Gentleman of merit, and a fit and proper person to fill the office aforesaid. Philada., August 31st, 1784. FRAS. JOHNSTON, H'Y MILLER, DANL. CLYMER, JOHN HAY, ANTY WAYNE, PHILIP GARTNER, ROBT. COLEMAN, AB'M SCOTT, JOS. WORK, DAVID McCONAUGHY, EDWD. HAND, THOS. HARTLEY. * See Vol. IX. p. 557, 578. The papers referred to have not yet been found. See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV. p. 603. -
End of Section 195. Continue to next section or 
Section 196
Page 604
- 604 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Council of CENsors To CouncIL, 1784. - In the Council of Censors, September 2d, 1784. On motion of Mr. McAllister, seconded by Mr. McLane, Ordered, That the Supreme Executive Council be requested to furnish this Council with their Minutes 'till the 1st August, 1784. Extract from the Minutes, SAM’L BRYAN, Sec'y. Indorsed, Read in Council same day, and Minutes of Council furnished. MESSRs. BowFN AND BEATTY's RESIGNATION, 1784. Philadelphia, Sept. 3d, 1784. Sir, We have just received the Resolution and order of Council, dated Sept. 2d, 1784,” and are sorry to be obliged to declare ourselves on this occasion Free Citizens of Pennsylvania, and not public officers. We have shut up our office, and are ready to deposit the remain- ing certificates in our hands wherever the Supreme Executive Coun- cil shall direct, agreeable to the Resolution of Congress. We therefore pray your Excellency and Council to order some of gour officers to receive the same, as we shall proceed no farther in this business. We have the honor to be, with due respect, Your Excellency's and Council's very H’ble Serv’ts, T. B. BOWEN, E. BEATTY. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq’r, President, in Council. MEssRs. Bowen AND BEATTY To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Philada, Tuesday morning, Sept. 7, 1784. Sir, As we fear the reflections of those whose Interest alone induced us to accept their appointment, as we forsee and lament the ruinous inconvenience which must infallibly acrue to the officers and soldi- ers of the late Line whose agents (chosen by themselves) we were, should we persist in depositing the Certificates at this time, without * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV. p. 197.
End of Section 196. Continue to next section or 
Section 197
Page 605
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 60? leaving Council any alternative, and as Thursday next has been appointed to begin our tour thro' the State, we beg leave respectfully to offer to your Excellency & Council the following proposal: Be pleased to remove the idea of our being unconditional servants of Peculators, by expunging from your Resolve of the 2d Inst.,” the words, “by the Agents,” and either rescind the Order, or suspend its operations till we have done the business of those who elected us, and until the remaining Certificates come into the hands of a Public Officer; which we humbly conceive may be effected, (if Council chuse not to rescind) by substituting the word hereafter in place of the word “forthwith.” Should Council in their Wisdom think proper to adopt this mode, the peculators will have their pretended doubts of losing their pur- chases removed, and we shall be happy in serving those whose busi- ness we undertook to transact, which we shall immediately resume. But if we are so unfortunate as not to have our proposal approved by Council, we must persist in our Resignation, tho' it will take us as long to deposit, as it did to bring, the business thus far forward. - We have the honor to be, Your Excellency's & Council's very Humble servants, T. B. BOWEN, E. BEATTY. Directed, - His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President, in Council. MEssBs. Bowen AND BEATTY To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Philadelphia, Septr. 9th, 1784. Sir, In the great struggle of contending sentiments with which our minds have been oppress'd, ever since we received the unexpected resolution & order of Council of the second Instant, the interest of our Brethern predominates. We therefore beg leave to consider the silence of Council on the subject of our Address of the third, as a tacit refusal of the deposit we offer'd ; and we leave to time and the wisdom of your honorable Board the consideration of the proposal we had the honor of deliver- ing to Council on Tuesday last. For these reasons, we shall (unless you forbidius) open our office again at 3 o'clock this afternoon, and will set out upon our tour next Saturday morning—provided Council do not think proper to signify their acceptance of the deposit before that time. - . Mean while, with all due submission to the constitutional autho- rity of the supreme executive power, we beg leave to reserve to our * See Col. Rec. Vol. XIV. p. 197. 26%
End of Section 197. Continue to next section or 
Section 198
Page 606
*606 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. selves all the Rights of Freemen of this Commonwealth, particularly that of trial by Jury in all disputes between man & man. We have the honor be Your Excellencies & the Council's Most Humble Servants, T. B. BOWEN, E. BEATTY. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President, in Council. WARDENs or PHILADELPHIA To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Wardens' Office, Philadelphia, Sept. 4th, 1784. Sir, The board beg leave to inform your Excellency and the honor- able the Supreme Executive Council, That the contractors for re- moving the Chevaux de Frize, having, as they apprehend, nearly finished the Business, the Wardens have ordered the State Sloop and her crew, together with a skilfull pilot, a diver, and a sufficient number of hands to go down immediately in order effectually to sweep and carefully examine the state of the River, least some ob- struction may remain as yet undiscovered that will endanger the safety of vessels in passing or repassing. As the examination is directed to be made with the utmost care and attention, possibly it may perhaps not be finished before the end of the week, till which : the contractors cannot remove their aparatus or discharge their ands. The Wardens are of opinion that the navigation cannot be rendered complete while the five Chevaux de Frize laid down in the draught between the two Bars in the eastern channel of the River remain, and as they may be removed now at less expence than at any future period, they respectfully submit this to the consideration of your Excellency and the Honorable Council. We have the honor to be, very respectfully, Your Excellency's Most obedient and very humble servants, FRANS. GURNEY, THOS. PRYOR, GEORGE ORD, JOHN HAZELWOOD.* Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr., President of the State of Pennsylvania. * See page 349, 350.
Page 607
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES, 1784. 607 WARDENs of PhILADELPHIA To PREs. OF CouncIL, 1784. Si Warden's Office, Septem: 21st, 1784. lſ, Since we did ourselves the honor of addressing your Excellency & the Honorable Council on the subject of the removal of the Chevaux de Frize to the Eastward of the Bar, the Pilots employed in sweep- ing the Channel have returned, and from their report we find that a shoal is forming between the lower end of the Bar & Hog Island, which confirms us the more in our opinion of the necessity of their being removed, and induces us to request your Excellency will be pleased to lay this matter before Council, as we conceive it to be an object well worthy of their immediate attention. We have the Honor to be with great respect, your Excellency's most obedient and very humble servant, #; order of the Board, FRAN GURNEY, P.” Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., President. BoARD of WARDENs of PHILADELPHIA To CouncIL, 1784. To His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., & the Supreme Execu- tive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, By Information of the Board of Wardens of the Port of Philadel- delphia, we are informed the honourable Council have thought of removing the Chevaux de Frizes in the Eastern Channel or Swash back of Red Bank Bar, & have required to know on what Terms we would engage to execute that Business. We therefore Propose to Council to execute the work on the Terms of our former Contract, as well for those yet to be removed as the work already executed above the Number contracted for. This we judge but reasonable, as the Expences we have been at in many Instances exceed our first Calculations, and a continuation on the same Terms for an additional Number will in some Measure compensate for the Service which tho' heavy to the undertakers, will be light to the Public. The Season is now so far advanced as to render the water cold and unhealthy to work in, & the days so shortened as to bring two of the low water Slack Tides, (at which Time material parts of the work can only be done) in the Night, whereby near half of the Time is lost, and many of our Men have lately got sick, with two of our principal officers. For these Reasons we are of opinion that the * See pp. 849, 350.
Page 608
608 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Busines cannot be done with safety to the undertakers for less than the proportionate sum of the Contract of April last, which is one hundred and twenty two pounds 811 # Chevaux de Frize. We beg leave to observe to Council that soon after our Contract Mr. Thomas Conarroe & others, in Conversation, talked of the Facility with which the Chevaux de Frizes could be removed, & that they would have undertaken the work for less Money, &c. On hearing of these Stories, we called upon several of those Pretenders to give them an opportunity of showing their Ingenuity, & if possible engaging them in the work, none of whom would contract but Mr. Conarroe, who after much Expence & several weeks Trial, gave the Matter up without raising a single Frame or the Power of doing it. These Things are offered to the honourable Council, as we believe no other Method but those taken by our A. Donaldson would have succeeded. The Removing the Frames in the Swash will be attended with a particular difficulty arising from the Shoalness of the water in which they lay. The Frames being 30 feet wide, the Water, it is appre- hended, will not admit of canting them to discharge the Ballast, and there being no increase of depth within the Swash, they must be floated with the Ballast in to the Main Channel before they can be got to shore or their Ballast discharged. We are with great Regard The honourable Council's Most respectful & most obedt, Servants, LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Ar DONALDSON.” Philadelphia, 23d September, 1784. Gov. HARRIsoN, of VIRGINIA, To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Si Virginia Council Chamber, Oct 15, 1784. lſ, I had the honor of your favor of y' 15th of last month, and now enclose you the return of Entries made in the County of Ohio, together with a Copy of the laws establishing the rights of those people, and appointing a board of Commissioners to settle them. Most of the Entries you will find in the returns which have been already forwarded,f tho' there are others in the books of the Survey- ors who had an equal right, that could not be ascertained by them from the absence of the Claimants, which I make no doubt your Excellency will attend to. I have the honor to be, with y' greatest respect & esteem, *** - Sir, your most obedt. humble servt., Directed, BENj. HARRISON. His Excellency, President Dickinson, * See pages 849, 850, and Col. Roc., Vol. XIV. p. 212, 241,242. f See page 603. tº,
Page 609
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 609 - EPHRAIM BLAINE TO PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Si Philada., 20th Oct., 1784. T, I take the Liberty of addressing your Excellency and Council upon a subject in which I think myself agrieved, and which Mr. Rittenhouse informs me is not in his power to remedy without your approbation. I am indebted to the State a balance for the purchase of two City Lots, on which I have Interest to pay—I have Interest notes of Mr. Rittenhouse's in my hands this fourteen months, for which I have not been able to receive the money, therefore shall think it hard to pay the one and not be allowed the other, (if not inconsistent) beg your Excellency and Council to give orders to Mr. Rittenhouse to receive those notes in payment agreeable to the time they were issued by Mr. Smith, Loan Officer. I have the honour to be, with perfect respect, your Excellency's most obdt. and most humble servt, EPH. BLAINE. Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esquire, President of the State of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. HoN. GEO. BRYAN To HoN. JAMEs IRwin, 1784. Chester, 20th October, 1784. Dear Sir, Upon conversing with Mr. McKean and Mr. Burd concerning the case of Doan, under attainder, by outlawry, for Robbery, they #. reminded me of David Dawson, of West-Caln, in Chester County, hanged upon attainder of Treason in a case of like nature, tho’ not so clear as to the proceedings. For this last case was under a proc- lamation of Council to come in & stand tryal in 45 days; Doane's is at Common Law, the mode of demanding only being under an old Act of Assembly. Dawson suffered, if I remember rightly, in the fall of 1780. The keeper of the new prison says this was the first capital execution after he entered upon his present duties. He will deliver this. I am, Dear Sir, Your most obed. Serv't, GEO. BRYAN. º - David Dawson, of Chester County, was executed on the Commons of this City, at the usual Place of Execution, on the 25th Day of November, 1780. I attended his Execution on that Day. - JOHN REYNOLDS, Gaoler. Philadelphia, 22d October, 1784. Directed, To The honorable James Irwin, Esquire, Philadelphia.
Page 610
, 610 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. OBLIGATION of CoMMIssion ERs To PURCHASE FROM INDIANs, 1784. We, the subscribers, Commissioners º appointed by the Hon- orable the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania, for the purpose of purchasing of the Indians the Territory within the acknowledged limits of the same State, which had not heretofore been purchased—do hereby promise and engage as part of the con- sideration of the same purpose, which is now accomplished, to deliver to the six nations, or such person or persons as they may appoint, and who shall, as a voucher, bring with him or them this our Obligation, Goods, Wares or Merchandize of such assortments as the Indians shall now direct, to the amount of One thousand Dollars, at the Pennsylvania Line, near Tioga, On the first day of October next; witness our hands at Fort Stanwix, this twenty-third day of October, Anno Domini 1784. SAM’L. J. ATLEE, WM. MACLAY, FRAS. JOHNSTON.” Witness present. Copy taken from and compared with the original. G. EVANS, Sec'y. GEN. JAMES WILKINsoN To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Sir - I shall offer no apology for this address; it must doubtless be unexpected, but the occasion will, I flatter myself, excuse it. Being about to take a long leave of the State of Pensylvania, I conceive it my duty to abdicate the Offices of Brigadier & Adjutant General, which I hold in Her militia; I am sorry I cannot observe the ceremony of inclosing the Commissions, as they are not at present within my reach —And the motive of my Application is the Interest I take in the welfare of that meritorious, respectable part of Society, the late Military of America; I am prompted by principle & sym- pathy to promote their prosperity on every proper occasion, by every consistent means in my Power. On the present return of the Election for Fayette County, Major John Harden stands second for the Sheriff's Office; permit me briefly to state to your Excellency this man's merit, without detracting from that of his Competitor.—Mr. Harden served in the alert of the Army under the Generals (then Colonels) Morgan & Butler, in the Northern Campaign, 1777. His Rank was that of a Lieutenant, and I can, as the Adjutant General of the Army under General Gates, assert that he was exposed to more danger, encountered greater Fatigue, and performed more real service than any other Officer of * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 186–7. f. Read in Council Nov. 8, and resignation accepted—Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., page 252.
Page 611
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 611 his Station; with Parties never exceeding 20 Men, he in the Course of the Campaign made upwards of 60 Prisoners, and at a Personal Recounter in the rear of the Enemie's position, he killed a Mohawk express, & brought in the dispatches which he was conveying from Gen'l Burgoyne to the Commanding Officer at Ticonderoga, with the loss only (indeed) of a Lock of Hair which the Indian's Fire carried away, It is sufficient for me, Sir, to testify his merits, the Justice which characterizes your administration will do the rest. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Your Excel- lency's most Obedient & most Humble Servant, JDirected, JAMES WILKINSON. His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr., Philadel’a. * . BENJAMIN Johnston To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Washington County, Nov. 1st, 1784. “ Hon'ble Sir, - From the strongest assurance of your Honor’s Zeal to do Justice to every Individual, prompted by a motive of Justice to myself and to all those People claiming Lands under Grants from the state of Virginia within the Bounds of the Cession to this State, and wishing the Agreement to be fulfilled in every Instance, I am induced to address your honor, praying that agreeable to the Articles where it is expressed, Private right and Property shall be saved and con- firmed to those People living on the ceded Lands, under these words, sir, I claim as my private right the surveying those Lands, which by a Commission from the state of Virginia, I say is my private right. In no other manner can the Agreement be fulfilled, which Agree- ment, if violated, must end in running the meanders of the River Delaware from the End of 5° Longitude, from the Delaware, in Latitude 40.” As my pretensions are founded on the strictest Justice, I am filled with the strongest assurance attention will be paid thereto. A Copy of Entries from my Office has been transmitted to your Board thro' the Hands of the Executive of Virginia.” I am, with respect and great Esteem, Your Honor's mo, obliged, mo. Obdt. & very H’ble Ser’t, Directed, B. JOHNSTON, S. Y. C. His Excellency John Dickerson, Esqr., President State of Pennsylvania. REsolutions of GENERAL Assembly—NEw JERSEY, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Friday, December 10, 1784, A. M. The motion read December 8, respecting the appointment of Com- missioners on the part of this State, to meet with such Commission- * See pp. 603, 608.
Page 612
612 PENNSYLVANA ARCHIVES 1784. ers as are or shall be appointed on the part of New Jersey, to settle, agree upon, and accurately to describe, which of the Islands, Islets and insulated Dry lands within the river Delaware, belong to each of the said States, respectively, was read the second time, and adopted as follows, viz.: Whereas, Commissioners duly appointed on the part of the State of New Jersey, and Commissioners duly appointed on the part of the State of Pennsylvania, for the purpose of settling the jurisdic- tion of the river Delaware and Islands within the same, did make and execute two instruments of an Agreement for the purposes aforesaid, one for each State, bearing date the twenty-sixth day of April, 1783; which agreement hath since been ratified and con- firmed by Acts of the Legislatures of the said States respectively.” And whereas, in the said Agreement it is among other things set forth and declared, “That all Islands, Islets, and dry lands within “the bed and between the shores of the said river, and between “the Station point or north west corner of New Jersey, northerly, “and the falls of Trenton, southerly, shall, as to jurisdiction, be “hereafter considered as parts and parcels of the State to which “such insulated dry land did lie nearest at the time of making and “executing the said agreement,”— p And whereas, it is requisite that the said Islands, Islets and Dry lands lying within the boundaries aforesaid, should be more particu- larly described, and such as belong to each of the said States respec- tively more clearly ascertained, therefore, Resolved, that the Supreme Executive Council of this State be authorised and empowered, and they are hereby authorised, em. powered and desired to appoint three or more Commissioners on the part of this State, to meet with such Commissioners as are or shall be appointed on the part of New Jersey, to settle, agree upon, and accurately to describe which of the said Islands, Islets and insulated dry lands belong and appertain to each of the said States respec- tively, according to the purport, true intent and meaning of the aforesaid agreement. Resolved, that the Commissioners on the part of this State be in: structed so to form their report of the description and situation of such of the said Islands and insulated dry lands as shall be found to belong to this State, as that they may be properly annexed to the respective counties and townships to which they lie most contiguous. Resolved, that each of the said Commissioners be allowed twenty shillings for every day they shall respectively be employed as afore- said, and that this House will make provision for the same, and for defraying the necessary contingent expenses of the said service. Extract from the Minutes, J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk of the General Assembly. di . Smith's Laws, Vol. II., p. 77, 888, for the Acts respecting Juris- 1Ctloll.
End of Section 198. Continue to next section or 
Section 199
Page 613
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 618 - LETTERS, &c., RELATING TO WYO MING." PETITION of Z. BUTLER, &c., To CoNGREss, 1784. Wyoming, May 1st, 1784. To the Hon'ble the Conti'l Congress no setting at Annapolis in Maryland. Gentlemen, When we reflect upon the notice taken of us in granting us a trial for the right of soil claimed under the State of Connecticut on the one part and under the State of Pensyl'a on the other part, we Can't but feel our hearts glow with gratitude and high esteem for your Hon’ble and au ..., knowing from experience that you have a high esteem and veneration for Justice and that it is your intention it should take place between State and Individules and also observe that the fourth monday in June next is assigned for the apperance of the parties by their Lawfel *ś before Congress, or a Commit- tee of the States wherever they shall be then sitting to proceed in the premises as by the Confederation is Directed which has given us a greatful sense of the duty we ow to that respectable Body Esteeming that Board to be the last resort and appeal for Justies and the Ex- perience of which imboldens us once more to lay our Distressed situation before your Hon’rs, and we would in the first place beg leave to suggest that the Claimants under Pennsyl'a say...there is no act of Congress for a trail for the right of soil or even to constitue a Court or to Quiet us who claim under Connecticut in our possessions and therefore pay no regard to the said Resolve. We would also crave leave to say that in the fall of the last year and soon after the Justies who were apointed and Commissioned and set over us without our Choise or knowledge had come to this place, we by our peaceable Demeanor and ready submission to government duly submitted to every requisition whether Civil or Millitary yet the most tyranical and arbitary proceedings were intro- duced by the said authority to add to our distress, that numbers of Families were forcibly turned out their houses and possessions with- out the least regard to age or sex, widdows or Fatherless Children, in sickness and Distress many of the Inhabatants had their grain and other Effects forced from them, others taken in numbers by a Milli- tary force Drove to the fort by the Soldiers with fixed Bayonets and accompanyed by the Justices Esq’rs Petterson and Seely, when the * These being found since the papers for that year were printed, it is deemed best to place them together.
Page 614
614 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES, 1784. said inhabatants by order of the said authority were forced into a Guard house in the fort where they were confined in a Dismal prision unfit for Human creatures to lay down in, some confined six and others nine days when they were turned out without any crime being laid to their Charge that while in Confinement they received the greatest abuse and insults from the Justies officers & soldiers and in the mean time their famileys turned out of doors & their property forced from them & never returned, others were taken by orders of the authority under the pretence of some crime though none were alledged against them and Confined in the said gaurd house from thence sent to Sunbury to be Committed and laid under large bonds and permited to return home taken a secund time by said authori. ty for the same pretended crime and confined in the said Gaurd house when offers were made them by the Justices if they would take leasses they shou'd be released from their Bonds and Confine- ment some were actually forced to take a lease to gain their Liberty and all this barbarous treatment inflicted upon the inhabatants of this settlement without Law or ever the colour of Law or Justice and in order to obtain some redress and rispit from their tyranical proceedings we petitiond the Hon’ble assembly of this State for and in hopes of some mitigation of our intolerable sufferings and insup: portable insults which the inhabitants were continuly receiving from the authority afs'd as well as from the Pennsy'a Land Claimers and the assembly of this State by a Reselve passed the ninth day of Dec'ºr last, appointed Mesrs the members of Northanton County a Commit. tee to Enquire into the facts as stated in our Petition who met about the 29th of the same month at Cap't John P. H. Schott inkeeper in this place and to the immortal Hon’r of that Committee we Can with justice and their Enquiry was made with the strictest Justice and impartiality but alas to our great surprise and mortification after keeping an agent at the assembly near three months, the Petition was shuffled from Committee to Committee, and finally posponed to the next session and nothing done for our relief and after the Resolve of Congress our agent Petitioned the assembly of this State tº be Quited in our possessions until the trail of the right of soil should be determined but alass all to no purpose our prayers and intreaties were rejected and Contemed and we are now left to the tender mergies of the wanton and avericious wills of the land Claiman's whos tender mercies are cruelity in the abstract, and we would farther observe that the Civil and millitary authority who are set over us here lay Claim to large interests in this place in lands under the Pennsyl’a claim and those of the civil authority were the most vendictive enimies, and the lands claimants still say that the whole was determined by the Decree at Trenton and are at this present time introducing a Banditti of men together with the Soldiers who have no right or claim to any land here under any State to take our lands and possessions by force and thes'd Banditti and Soldiery
End of Section 199. Continue to next section or 
Section 200
Page 615
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 615 º are now wantonly without either law or right, pulling down our fences Laying our fields and grain open to the wide world, fencing acrose our highways, securing our wells of water from our houses, inclosing our gardens and home Lotts for their own use, so that we are deprived the priviledge of passing in our Publick highways, the priviledge of taking water from our wells, improving our gardens and home Lotts and other Lands is also Denied us, and that upon our Perril many of our inhabatants that have attempted to improve in our gard'gs have been drove out by a Band of Soldiers armed with Clubs, and we are not only threatened of being beat and abused with Clubs, but are offen threatened to be shot and put to imeadete Death, many of our houses, Lotts, Wells and gardens Lying near the garrison and under cover of their Cannon by which means we are Continually receiving the greatest abuses and insults from some of the Justices as well as from the officers and soldiers; the said Sol- diers are Continually walking the streets, and through Every part of our Settlement that is any way near the Garrison, as well by night as by day, some armed with Guns and Bayonets, and others with Clubs, insulting and assaulting whomsoever they please; some of the inhabatants have been met in the street by this Banditti, and beat with Clubs untill their lives were Despaired of. Others have been taken and carried into the fort, and there beat with Clubbs by the officers and Soldiers in a most Cruel manner and then dismissed. One of the inhabatants of a respectable Character a few days since made application to one of the justices for a warrant against Alex" Petterson, Esq., in order to get a redress in law for assault and Battrey made upon him by the said Petterson. The Justice to whom application was made, Living near the Garrison, a party of soldiers, armed with Clubbs and other weapons, were immediately sent in pursuit of this Inhabatant. Their pursuit continued for two days, waylaying his house, field and the highways, &c., and on the night of the 30th of Ap'l, a party of armed soldiers waylaying the house, took him by force, and carried him near the Garrison, when they beat him severely with clubbs, this man made imediate applica- tion for redress to one of the Justices, but was refered to the Command- ing officer to whom he also made the same application, but any redress could be obtained some of the Justices, together with the officers and soldiers and others of their Banditti of men are threating to pull down our houses, and turn our disstreesed feimly out of Doors. The in- habatants who have lost their houses and all their Effects by the late inundation of the waters, are forbid cutting a stick of timber to make a shelter for their feimelys, or even to repair their houses that were wracked in pieces by the water and Ice. Some have been taken before the Justices by a warrant and laid under large Bonds for Cutting timber on their own possissions for the purpose of Build- ing, others are laid under bonds for cutting a stick of fire wood. We are also forbid to Draw our seins in the river for fish which will
Page 616
º º 616 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. add greatly to our Distreess, haveing lost most of our provissions by the inundation of water, and to add to all our distreess, the soldiers are Continualy Plundering the inhabitants, taking from them the Little provissions they had left them, Killing our Cattle, Sheep and Swine which escaped the flood. Repeated application has been made by the inhabitants to the authority here, in hopes to obtain redreess for the abuses and insults which we are Daily receiving, but can get no redreess, and by their unonstutional, unjust and unlawfull pro- ceedings had against us which together with the surprizing inunda- tion of water & Ice hath spread Distruction and Devastation through our setlements, having a great part of our houses, Cattle, grain and other Effects hurried down the impetious torrant & lost for ever. Yet notwithstanding all this, these Barbarous men and still oppres- sing the afflicted in the gate. Our blood and treasure has been Ex- pended in our Countrays cause we have stepted forth & fought for the golden tree of Liberty which as a Countray we have obtained. We have Suffered Every Danger this side of Death, many of our nearest and tenderesed Connections have Bled & fallen: it fills our hearts with grief when we take a serious view of our unhappy situation that we who have stood forth in our Countrays cause must now Continue under the Iron rod of Tyronney and oppression, and by those who should have been first to step forth for our protection and safe gaurd and now while others are Injoying the inconceviable Blessings of peace and pleanty, and set under their own fig tree and have none to make them afraid, but are singing a Quietum to all their trouble we are under the gawling yoke of Dispotism and the cruel malicious and Tyraniical proceedings had against us and which we are Con- tinuelly receiving from the Civil and Millitary authority as well as from the Soldiers and merciless and mercinary Land Claimants have Drove us almost to Disperation and unless we can have some speedy relief we are inevitably ruined, we must fly from this place with our Distreessed feimlys, leaving our all behind us, our children crying for bread, and we shall have none to give them, and we would farther observe that while this was writting and but a few minutes since a number of the inhabitants have been Drove from their labours by the Soldiers, and beat with clubs from house to house in a most cruel mannor, therefore with all due regard for that Hon’ble body of which Congress are composed, do with Deference and Humility lay these our distreessed situation before your Hon’ble Body, pray- ing your Hon’rs Seriously to take our unhappy Cercomstance into your wise and Equitable Consideration and weigh the Justies of our Complaints and grant us relief or metigation, and that we may be Quieted in our possessions untill we can have a fair and impartial trail for the right of soil as by the Confederation is directed or in some other way grant relief as your Hon'r in your great wisdom shall judge just and Equitable, and we as in duty Bound shall ever pray.
Page 617
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. 617 Wyoming, 1st May, 1784. N. B. This day the only Grist mill in the settlement was taken by force from the inhabitants by the Soldiers, with Large Clubbs.” Signed in behalf of the inhabitants. ZEB'N BUTLER, NATHAN DENISON, JOHN GINKINS, OBADIAH GORE, HUGH FORMAN, JAMES SUTTON, PHINEHAS PRICE, BENJ'N BAILY, * EBENEZER JOHNSON. Indorsed, - Petition of Zebulen Butler and others, Connecticut settlers to Congress May 7th, 1784, referred to Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Ellery, Mr. Williamson. ALEXANDER PATTERson to JUDGEs of SUPREME Court— Wyoming, 1784. Wyoming, May 30th, 1784. Gentlemen, - Whereas your duty to the state, and attention to the Rights and Privileges of its Citizens Demands your attention in this County at a j when great part thereof is in Inevitable trouble, it will no Doubt be Necessary for the peace and Safety of the Commonwealth for your Honours to make every Enquiry from what source such Troubles flow the origin, rise and Progress thereof have hitherto been so Conspicious as to want no Illustration. It now only remains that your Honours do obtain the proper Information and Causes which have produced the Present Com- motions and that Prudent and wise measures be adopted to stop the Impending Calamity's that Threaten this Large tract of Country, you will no Doubt hear that great Outrages have been Commited by the Pennsylvanians against the Connecticut Claimants in Vio- lation of Law and good Government, But I trust it will be made appear that the measures taken Though not strictly Consonant with the Letter of the Law was the result of absolute Necessity, and Dictated solely by the Principles of self Preservation, for Certain it is that no human Policy could govern or Reconcile both party's to Remain peaceably in this Country, the Rancorous Disposition of the contending party's but too well Evince the Catastrophe that must have happened had not the measures been adopted that have been taken by the Pennsylvanians, there was no medium to save the * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 120.
Page 618
618 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Effusion of much Blood. The Pennsylvanians had come into this Country in great Numbers, found that the Lands they had so long since bought and suffered for was Generally Clear of houses or fences, they therefore fell to work to Improve and in a Peaceable manner Endeavoured to Repossess themselves of their Property, which was wrested from them many years ago by Lawless Banditti, the malecontents betook themselves to their ancient Resources (that of arms) and Threatened the Pennsylvanians in a Daring and Out- rageous manner, all hopes of peace being vanished, it was adjudged the most Prudent step to seize a favourable moment and Disarm the most violent of the Intruders, upon which Notice was given them, to move off their Effects & Familys, the season being so far advanced that there was no danger of their Cattle suffering by the way, this and every other precaution was taken to prevent the Idea of Cruelty, Though in simelar cases the Pennsylvanians had never Recd. any thing like simelar Treatment, on the Contrary they have been Robed & murdered and suffered every species of Cruelty b those Troublers of the state and their Quiet, who now would #. to have Government believe that they are Inoffensive Citizens and strict Conformists to the Laws of this state which they have held in the greatest Contempt for upwards of fifteen years, but had they an alternative they would Trample it as usual. Your Honours will please to view the Difference between the Party's the one havin Troubled the Happiness of the State for such a series of years, an Commiting every outrage that malice could suggest ag'st, its faith- ful Inhabitants. The other supporting the Dignity of the State and Rights of the People, having at all times Evinced their Zeal for its Wellfare. The Pennsylvanians who have been active in the late movements are aware of the situation in which they are Placed, having a strong Party in Northumberland against them, who have taken part with those restless people, and had it not been for their Interposition, actuated I fear by bad Principles, there would have been no trouble in settling this Country with the Rightful owners, and it is more than Probable (that their views of Popularity being now at an End by Loosing their Darling object the votes of those Exiles at Elections) that they will use Every Endeavours to stimu- late your Honours with Government to measures that will Perhaps Terminate in our ruin, but hope you will be aware of those Incen- diaries whose wish is to Iritate instead of salving the sore. If the views of the New settlers of this country have in any wise been mis- taken they will be very unhappy, for I am well Convinced that there are no People on Earth who have a greater veneration for the Weal of this Commonwealth of which they deem it their Greatest Honour to be Citizens. Business of such a Complicated Nature could never have been effected with more caution, there is no Blood spilt and it will not be the blame of the Present Inhabitants if there ever is upon the occasion, as few or Perhaps none of the Inhabitants from hence may be Down at Sunbury and Numerous Complaints will
Page 619
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 619 Exhibited. I am solicited to make this Representation of facts which I Pledge myself Deviates nothing there from, in order that your Honours may be aware of the Cunning of Designing men, the matter is Rested Intirely with you, that from a perfect knowledge and Dependance on your abilities such measures will be taken by Government as will tend to the Tranquility of its People, the Present settlers beg that no harsh step may be taken, and that the Sheriff and some of the Justices in his vicinity may not Drive to Extreams, and cause mutual Disentions to arise among a People whose strength and Wellfare Depend on Unanimity. I know that it will be said that I have given my sanction to the measures adopted it would be uncandid to say they had it not. I have done nothing officially, having some time since Resigned my commission of the Peace,” But having some Consequence among the People I have frequently given them permits and Papers that have Generally answered the Purposes Intended (viz.) the accom- modations of Persons apparently in Distress. You will Please to observe that the Pennsylvanians Conceive that the Determination of the Congressionall Court at Trenton Touching the jurisdiction and Preemption of this Country was final and Decisive and that further Pretentions to Tryal upon the Subject was in too great a Degree Tampering with their Patience and Property, and are Determined to Defend it against any Pretensions or People Claiming under the State of Connecticut should they be so unjust as to Persevere in so Iniquitous a measure. Capt. Armstrong does me the Honour to Deliver this to whom I refer for its authenticity and further Particulars. I have the Honor to be, with the Highest Esteem, * and Regard Gentlemen your most obedt. & very humble Servt. ALEX. PATTERSON. Directed, The Hon’ble Thomas McKean, Esqr., & the other Supreme judges now at Sunbury. - Hond. by Capt. Armstrong. ALEXANDER PATTERSON To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Wyoming, 12th July, 1784. Sir, Whereas I have for some fifteen years past been Interested in the affairs of Wyoming; and more particularly so since the late Com- motions became serious, I therefore humbly hope that it will not be Deemed Impertinent if I assume the freedom to state some facts relative to the situation of this Country as it now stands,- * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 117.
Page 620
620 PENNSYLVANIA. ARCHIVES 1784. What Happened before Col. Moore left this place, he has un- doubtedly faithfully represented to your Excellency and Council, since which we have been continually surrounded by a Body of armed men, who say that they are under the Direction of the sheriff of this County, there has not one day passed that they have not Committed some outrage upon the peaceable and Industrious Inhabitants, by Beating, Robing and Plundering them of their property. They have stolen Thirty one Horses out of the settle- ment, besides a Number of Cattle & sheep; This day they took Mr Shoemaker one of our Justices who had just returned from Sunbury and Enter'd into recognizance, Beat him in a Cruel and Barbarous manner, we have born with every Species of Insult. Their Horrid Threats to murder me and several Gentlemen at this place, has Induced me to keep a Guard of Near fifty men ever since Col. Moore left this place for the safety of our lives, we have carefully avoided all acts of Hostilities, and thereby I hope Evinced to the world our good Intentions, God knows that we wish to get Clear of those Runegadoes without Bloodshed but I fear it is not Possible, they will commit some Crueltys that will Eventually bring on Bloodshed, there is nothing more they wish than to act the Part of the savage, they have Blacked their faces, and abused our People with Towmehacks they have had recourse to the Law, but find its Operations too slow to answer their purpose they are Determined to repossess themselves tho' at the risk of Life, they have Duped the state in their Pretence of applying to the Laws, they never Intended the least good to the state, they ought to be exploded from a Citizenship, their actions has always shewn it. - Your Excellency will Easily Perceive that this Business has cost me a large sum of money and if effected will doubtless cost some- thing Considerable, we have Various Reports of a Body of men coming from Connecticut, it will Doubtless be Necessary for this State to Interpose, I have besides the support of the Guards, alluded to supported the familys of our People who hold Possession, with Bread to a Considerable amount. Permit me to give it as my opinion that Government ought to Interpose in our behalf, and give an Immediate support to our Possessions the malcontents having done Flagrant offences sufficient to warrant such interposition for the safety of the Commonwealth. I have the Honour to be with the Greatest Esteem your Excellency's Most obedient & very Humble Serv't, - ALEX. PATTERSON.” A small support now, may save the state a world of Trouble and expence. Directed,—His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esq’r, Philadelphia. * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 162.
Page 621
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 621 John FRANKLIN To OFFICERs of THE GARRISON, 1784. Wyoming, July 27th, 1784. Gentlemen, In the name and behalf of the Inhabitants of this place, who held their Lands under the Connecticut Claim, and were lately, without Law, or even the Colour of Law, drove off from their Possessions and Property in a hostile and unconstitutional manner—we, there- fore, in the name of those injur'd and incens'd Inhabitants, demand an immediate Surrender of your Garrison into our hands, together with our Possessions and Property, which if Compli’d with, you shall be treated with Humanity and Commiseration; otherwise the Consequences will prove fatal and bloody to every person found in the Garrison. We give you two Hours for a decisive answer, and will receive the same at Mr. Bailey's. f JOHN FRANKLIN, in behalf of the injured. John Franklin acknowledged the above instrument of writing to be his act and Deed, in the presence of us, JNo. Boyd, John ARMSTRONG, JR. No answer sent to this. The Siege begun the 23rd. Directed, The Officers at the Garrison in Wyoming. Hon'd Mr. Hallen- back. DEPosition John Boyd, 1784. Before me, John Seely, Esqr., one of the Justices of the Peace in and for the s'd County of Northumberland, appeared John Boyd, Esqr., & being duly sworn, doth say that a summons of the same Tenor of the within written one was Delivered to him, & that John Franklin acknowledged the same in his presence to be his act and Deed. JOHN BOYD.* Sworn and Subscribed before me, at Wyoming, Septr. 24th, 1784. (Coppy.) JNo. SEELY. DEPoSITION OF WILLIAM BRINK, 1784. Pennsylvania, ss. Be it Remembered, that William Brink, one of the Constables near Wioming, and particularly for the Shawanese township, in the * This is attached to a copy—from the original of which the above is printed. Vol. X. —27
Page 622
622 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. county of Northumberland, & State of Pennsylvania, appeared per- sonally before the Honorable Thomas M'Kean, Esquire, Doctor of Laws Chief Justice of the Supreme court of the State aforesaid, &c., and made oath on the holy Evangelists of Almighty God, that on Tuesday, the twentieth day of the present month of July, this De- ponent and divers other Inhabitants of the afs' Shawanese township, were informed that divers persons from Connecticut and Vermont were coming to Wioming armed, and under the command of a certain Major Joel Abbot, and that a certain John Franklin was also comin there with another party of armed men; that he, this Deponent, .# between twenty and thirty of his neighbours, assembled together in the township afs", armed with their muskets & bayonets, and staid in a Body until about three o'clock, when they concluded the Con- necticut & Vermont Party were not coming, and they thereupon set out for Fort Dickinson, and having marched about half a mile beyond the flat lands, º called the Shawanese Flats, and were got into a wood, º thick with brush, they were fired upon by a party of men, who lay in ambush, and three of them were wounded, two mortally, and one slightly—that some of the Party with this deponent returned the fire, and then they all retreated back across the river Susquehanna and up to the Fort, where they all, or at least the greater part, remained until Thursday, when this deponent's wife sent his son, about twelve years of age, with a horse, for him to ride home; but he left his horse at the Fort, and returned home by water in a canoe, and at the river's side he found his wife and family, also Ezekiel Scouenhoven's, Joseph Montanie's, James Grimes's, Peter Taylor's, Preserved Cooley's, John Cartwright's, Nicholas Brink's families, and some others, standing there, women and children, under the guard of John Swift, Giles Slocum, Walter- man Baldwyn, Satterly, John Inman, and some others, armed with rifles and guns, who had driven them from their habita- tions, without suffering them to bring any thing with them, except the Clothes they wore, and a few bed clothes for two or three of them—-that this deponent then spoke to John Swift, and the others, and told them they had had recourse to the Law, and did they now mean to act arbitrarily and by force, he thought they had been con- tented; but they severally replied, that they expected no satisfaction from the Law, and were therefore resolved to take their own satis- faction; that they meant to kill every man they saw carrying arms; they then asked the deponent whether he intended to take his wife and family into the Fort, to which he answered that he did not, but to take them out into the country down to Delaware—they then told him they meant to take the Fort, and to show no quarter to those whom they should find in it, men, women, or children-that this deponent thereupon went with his family to Justice Seeley's, about four or five miles from that place, where they remained all night, and the next morning proceeded with his family, cattle, and a little provisions, together with a blanket and coverlid, to the house of Mr.
End of Section 200. Continue to next section or 
Section 201
Page 623
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1781. 623 Tillbury, near Delaware river, in the county of Northampton, where he left them, when he set out for Philadelphia, which was yesterday morning. This deponent further saith that the before named Walter- man Baldwyn told him he wondered that he and his Party did not fight them when they shot at him & them in the woods on Tuesday, and wounded the three men, for, said he, there were but seventeen of us, and you were the stronger party in numbers. And further this deponent saith not. WILLIAM BRINK.4: Sworn & subscribed the 27th day of July, before me. THO. M'KEAN. DEPosition of Col. John ARMSTRoNg, 1784. State of Pennsylvania, ss: Be it remembered, that Captain John Armstrong of the State of Pennsylvania, appeared personally before the Honorable Thomas McKean, Esquire, Doctor of Laws, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the State afs'd, &c., and being sworn on the holy Evangel- ists of Almighty God, deposeth and saith, that on the twelfth day of this present month, July, as he was travelling from Tioga to Sunbury, he was obliged by indisposition of health to stop at &. ming, where he found the inhabitants in great commotion, a camp being formed by a number of people, who, he understood, had arrived there from the State of Connecticut and other parts, at a place called Forty-Fort; that he was there told that the said Party had committed various acts of outrage on the inhabitants of that neighborhood, such as insulting and beating them, stealing their horses & cattle, &c. That this deponent having recovered a little, he went to Forty-Fort by water, and on his landing, he was met by certain Giles Slocum, Walterman Baldwyn, William Smith, John Inman, Edward Inman, Richard Inman, Ishmael Bennet, senior, John Jenkins, Phineas Stevens, Daniel Pierce, and others, in all about thirty or forty, armed with rifles, muskets, &c., and after his being among them sometime, he found by their general conversa- tion, that they were determined to drive off all the people, who had possessed themselves of lands under titles from the Government of Pennsylvania, in that country, and that they only waited for re-in- forcements to enable them to execute this purpose. That he appre- hends, from the conversation he then had with them, that their party at that time consisted of about sixty men. This deponent further saith, that he returned afterwards to his quarters contiguous to the late Garrison, and remained there a few days, when the party from Connecticut, &c., fired upon the Fort, where some of the * See Col. Rec., Vol. XIV., p. 167.
Page 624
624 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. settlers under Pennsylvania, whose lives had been threatened, were assembled for safety. That on Thursday last, the twenty-second day of this present menth, a number of men, women and children, flew into the Fort for protection, who reported that they were ex- pelled their houses by an armed force, plundered of every species of property, and that their lives were threatened by the settlers under the State of Connecticut and a party lately from Vermont. That on the twenty third of this month, a large party appeared embodied near Fort Dickinson, and soon after fired upon the inhabitants, who had fled there for safety. This deponent further saith, that reflecting on the unhappy situ- ation of the women and children, who lived near to the Fort, in being exposed to the fire of both parties, he begged of a widow that had two sons with the aforesaid party, to desire that they would cease firing, until she and some more in a similar situation could be removed to a place of safety, which she accordingly did, and there- upon they sent her word that there should be no firing for two hours, when he went to assist a certain Mrs. Spaulding, a lone woman, to remove her family and property, but he had scarce left the gate of the Fort, when he was fired upon by the afs'd Connecti- cut party. That they continued to fire upon the inhabitants, wounded a boy of about twelve years old, an old man above sixty- five years of age, and shot at a very young boy riding on a horse, and wounded the horse; and that Hostilities had not ceased on Sunday morning, the twenty-fifth instant, when he left the place. And further this deponent saith not. JOHN ARMSTRONG.” Sworn at Philadelphia, July 28th day, 1784, before THO. M'KEAN. CoMMIssionERs To ALEX. PATTERSON, &c., 1784. Northumberland Co. ss : At a meeting of the Magistrates, officers, and a number of the Good Inhabitants of the county aforesaid, Taking into serious con- sideration the distress'd situation of the Inhabitants of Wyoming, Both New-England and Pennsylvania have appointed Mr. John Scott, Mr. Wm. McCord and Thomas Hewitt, Esqr., To Request both Parties to Cease Hostilities untill the further mind of Council and Assembly be Known. In pursuance of the above, we, the Subscribers are arrived for that purpose, and do Crave a Conference with you, Either by Com- mittee, to meet a Committee from the other Party, or otherwise, as you shall Think most Proper—we would wish you to be as Expedi- * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 167.
Page 625
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 625 tious as Possible, as we are under an obligation to make our Return as soon as possible.—We are, with much Esteem, your well wishers, ALEXD'R PATTERson, THoMAs HEWITT, B. W. BALL, Esqrs. John Scott, $AML. READ. WM. McCoRD. July 30th, 1784. Answer to the above. Wyoming, July 30th, 1784. Gentlemen, We are honored by yours of this date, and conceive ourselves much obliged by the Trouble you and the Magistrates of this county have taken in the instance. There will be no Hostilities commenced on our parts, and shall be happy to see you at the garrison when you think proper to honor us with a visit. Every thing that may tend to the Good of this Government, and the safety of the Lives of the Citizens shall be strictly observed on our Part. We wish a conference with you as soon as may be at this Place. Captain Henderson waits upon you for an answer, or to accompany you to the Garrison. We are, Gentlemen, with Esteem, - Your Obedient Serv'ts, THOMAS HEwiTT, } ALEXD'R PATTERSON, John Scott, B. W. BALL, WILLIAM McCoRD. SAML. REED, CoMMIssionERs To ALEx. PATTERSON, &c., 1784. Wyoming, July 30th, 1784. Gentlemen, We received yours, and are happy to find such compliance on your part. We would wish to meet you at Mr. John Hollenback's, at 3 o'clock this afternoon, as we have the utmost assurance from Mr. John Franklin, Mr. John Swift, Mr. Phineas Pierce, and others, that you will be treated with the utmost Civility. We are, Gentlemen, with much Esteem, your humble Servts, ALEXANDER PATTERson, THoMAs HEwiTT, B.W. BALL, John Scott, SAML. REED. WM. McCoad. An immediate answer would be verry agree—from yours as be- fore. -
Page 626
626 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Answer to the foregoing. Wyoming, July 30th, 1784. Gentlemen, We are to acknowledge the receipt of yours by Captain Hender- son. Would be happy to meet you at Mr. Hollenback, But we wish first to know whether you are the only Persons that we are to meet, and whether you as an Embassy from the Magistrates of this County, are restricted from having Egress and Regress to any part of said County. Permit us to observe, that we cannot conceive it consistent with our duty to meet at the place appointed, being at too Great a distance from the Garrison. We are, Gentlemen, your Obedient Servants, Thomas Hewitt, ALExD. PATTERson, John Scott, B. W. BALL, WM. McCortD. SAML. REED. CoMMIssionERs To ALEx. PATTERson, &c., 1784. * July 30th, 1784. Gentlemen, - We received yours of this date, and you mentioned Mr. Hollen- back's to be too far from the Garrison, and as we are not permitted to enter the Garrison, we request you or any Committee from you, to meet us, the Subscribers, together with the Flag, at Mr. Slu- man's house, as soon as possible. We are, with due Respect, your real Friends and humble Servants, ALExD'R PATTERson, Thomas Hewitt, B. W. BALL, } John Scott, SAML. REED. WM. McCoRD. An immediate answer will be verry agreeable from you, as before. Answer to the above. Wyoming, July 30th, 1784. Gentlemen, - We receiv'd your last, pr. Flag. We will meet you instantly at the place appointed; in the Interim we Expect all hostilities to cease; it shall be strictly observed on our part, But we are sorry to Inform you that this Instant our people were fired upon. We are, Gentlemen, your Obedient Serv'ts, To Thos. HEwiTT, ALEXD'R PATTERson, John Scott, B. W. BALL, WM. McCoRD, SAML. REED, AND. HENDERSON.
End of Section 201. Continue to next section or 
Section 202
Page 627
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 627 CoMMISSIONERs To ALEx. PATTERson, &c., 1784. August 1st, 1784. Gentlemen, As we are not permitted to enter your Garrison, and Ready to Return and wish to take our Leave of the Gentlemen of the Garri- son, we request the Favour of you to meet us at Mr. Slocum's House, at 3 o'clock this afternoon, under the direction of a Flag from this side. We are, with due Esteem, your obedient servants, ALEXD'R PATTERson, Esq’r, Thos. Hewitt, And the Gentlemen of the John Scott, Garrison. WILLIAM McCord. Answer to the above. : Wyoming, August 1st, 1784. Gentlemen, We shall do ourselves the pleasure of waiting on you at the time and place mentioned in yours of this Date, and are, with much Esteem, your Obedient Servants, Thomas Hewitt, ALExD’R PATTERson, John Scott, Esqrs. B. W. BALL, WILLIAM McCoRD, SAML. REED, ANDw. HENDERSON. MESSRs. BoyD AND ARMSTRONG TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Easton, 2d August, 1784. Sir, In our haste to accomplish some part of the preparatory busines which we have taken upon ourselves, we have only time to inform your Excellency & Council that we got to this place early on yester- day, & that we purpose to leave it early on to-morrow. There has a late Acct. been received from Wyoming, which left Them in almost the same situation as those we saw in Philada. A 2d summons has been sent to Patterson, offering Money to Him & his followers, if they surrender, & threat'ning them all with the sword-if they do not. Some Women & one Child have been wounded within a few days. We propose to write you again in a day or two—when we shall be better able to determine the temper as well as preparation of the
Page 628
628 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Troops with whom we are to act, & of whom, our Accounts (at this moment) are not the most promising. We have the honor to be, Sir, Your Excellency's & Council's Most Obedient & Most Humble Servants, JNO. BOYD, JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr.” Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., President, &c. JUSTICEs of Northum BERLAND TO , 1784.f Wioming Augt. 5th, 1784. Gentlemen, We are now at this place In order to execute the Laws of this State which we hope to effect as the Conn'ct party has submitted & dispersed in our presents but they express great fear from a party lately at Locust Ridge & other small sculking parties unlawfully assembling to disturb the places.—Therefore Gentlemen we hope if you or any of you know of any such riotous or unlawful parties collecting you will discountenance & forbid the same, we as Justices of the peace for the Co. of North'd subscribe our selves, your obdt. Humble Servt. DAVID MEAD, ROBT. MARTIN, THOS. HEWITT. JUSTICES OF NoFTHUMBERLAND County To A. PATTERSON, &c., 1784. Wioming, Aug. 5th, 1784. Gentlemen, In Consequenee of our Instructions from the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennesylvania, we have demanded of the Connecticut Party their arms, and such a Number of their men as we think Proper to be put in Charge of the High Sherriff of the County, untill the Pleasure of the Chief Justice in this case shall be known, and those that remain to be Bound to the peace and . Behaviour in sufficient Security, which they have Complyed with. - * For their appointment, see Coton. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 168, and 80% 803 of this. f Not directed.
End of Section 202. Continue to next section or 
Section 203
Page 629
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 629 Therefore in the name of the Commonwealth we demand the same of you and your Party, also the delivery to us of all State Property and your Flag to be taken down. We are yours &c., Messrs. ALEx PATTERson, RoBT. MARTIN, B. W. BALL, - THos. HEwiTT, SAML. REID, DAVID MEAD. AND, HENDERSON, JUSTICEs of North UMBERLAND To John FRANKLIN, &c., 1784. Wioming, 5th Augt. 1784 Gentlemen, In obedience to our Instructions from the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania we have repaired to this place & find two parties in actual Hostilities. Therefore in the Name of the Commonwealth we command you & that without delay to deliver us the arms of your party's together with such a number of your men as we shall think proper to put in charge of the high Sheriff of the County untill the pleasure of the Chief Justice in this case shall be known & if required those that remain to be bound to the peace & good behaviour with sufficient security. - We are &c., Messrs, John FRANKLIN, THos. Hewitt, PHINEHAs PIERCE, DAVID MEAD, GILEs SLocum, RobT. MARTIN. John Swift, N. B. The Conn'ct party dispersed in our presents. John FRANKLIN, &c., To JUSTICEs of North UMERLAND Co., 1784. Wioming, Augt. 5th, 1784. Gentlemen, We received your's of the present Date in which you as Majes- trates and as such we revere you in your exalted sphere, and as you have in the name of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania made a Demand of our Arms, declare our promptitude to comply with your Requisition and we shall rely Gentlemen upon your Honors than we shall have the Benefit of the Laws of this State in all respects for the future, at the same Time lººting the neglect of the Law in 7
End of Section 203. Continue to next section or 
Section 204
Page 630
630 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. times past which has been the occasion of all the Hostilities which we are charged with. Gentlemen we are with due respect, your most obedt. humble Servts. DAVID MEAD, John FRANKLIN, Thom. HEwBTT, Esquires. John SwiFT RoBT. MARTIN, GILEs SLoCUM, PHINEHAs PIERCE. Answer to the foregoing. JUSTICEs of NoHTHUMBERLAND County To CouncIL,” 1784. - Wioming, Augt. 6th, 1784. Gentlemen, In obedience to the Instructions of Council of 24th July, we Repaired to this Place and found the Two Parties in actual Hostili- ties, and yesterday made a Demand of the Connec't Party a Surrender of their arms and submission to the Laws of this State, which they Complyed with, referance being had to the Inclosed aders. p e also made a Demand of the same nature of the Party in the Garrison, but have Received no direct but evasive answers—at same time expressing fear of their lives, in reply to which they were F. Protection agreeable to Law in every respect but still old the Garrison and have not Dispersed. We Believe that a Due execution of the Laws will be the most effectual measure to Quiet the Country, as to the Pretended Claim or Title of the Connec’t Party we have nothing to fear, and are Convinced that had it not been through the cruel and Irregular Conduct of our Own People the peace might have been established long since and as well the Honor and Dignity of Government sup- orted. P We are Gentlemen with the greatest Respect, and esteem your Hble. Servt. THO. HEWITT, DAVID MEAD, ROBT. MARTIN, P. S. Please to satisfy the express for his Trouble. MEss. Boyd AND ARMSTRONG to PREs. DICKINson—Wyoming, 1784. 7th Aug't, 1784. Sir, Till to day we have had no easy mode of communicating with your Excellency, nor was our intelligence such as would have * Not directed but inferred from its contents.
End of Section 204. Continue to next section or 
Section 205
Page 631
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 631 - authoriz'd the trouble and expence of employing an Express. We are this morning however so fortunate as to meet with Captain Shotz, by whom we must beg leave to state, in a very hasty way the proceedings which have already been taken & those we have it in contemplation yet to take. Upon our arrival at Easton, we found neither the temper nor preparation of the militia such, as we had expected to find them. The first (to which no service would be very acceptable,) had been particularly set against this by the agency of some fellows who with influence enough to mislead the people, have had wickedness enough to misrepresent the object & intentions of Government. We every- where met the following objections, “that it was the quarrel of a sett of Land jobbers, that the whole Country was not worth the life of a single man, or the labor of the many who were now called out to quiet it, & that they were drawn forth not merely to support the laws but to extirpate the whole race of Connecticut claimants, &c., &c. Idle and absurd as these objections were, & much as Col. Craig & others had exerted themselves to obviate them, yet such was their effect upon the minds of the people that not more than one third of , the number warn'd appear'd at the place of Rendezvous & among these but very few declared themselves to be perfectly willing to go farther. Disagreeable as we felt this want of disposition it was not however more unpromising than their almost total want of prepara- tion. Out of 70 men who came from the 6th Northampton Batt'n, there were but 40 who had brought their arms—accoutrements, kettles, &c., &c., there were none. This must have necessarily produced a delay had it not arisen from another source. Col. Craig having in the first instance counted upon a more exact compliance with his orders than they afterwards met, had made a very extensive arangement of three detachments which were to move by different routes, very widely apart & entirely out of reach of each other. This supposed that each would be equel if not superior to the whole force of the insurgents which your Excell’y will find generally stated at 250 or 300 men. We need therefore enter into the reasoning which induced us to alter this plan & instead of committing ourselves by detail to bring the whole force to some advanced point from which we might operate as contingency would direct—This plan which entirely commands the entrance of the swamp was thought the most proper for this purpose, & we have accordingly drawn them hither. In this situation an account of the half finished negociation of the Northumld. Magistrates has found us, we could wish it had been more compleat, but from some private evidence which we shall soon be at liberty to communicate, we are led to apprehend that the principles upon which it has been conducted were neither very fair to individuals nor honorable to the State & cannot therefore be either very lasting or satisfactory. Some part of this opinion we have formed upon the magistrates own letter to your Excell’y which we
Page 632
- 1632 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. took the liberty to open, and which we again enclose. We propose therefore to proceed immediately & Endeavor to execute the farther intentions of Council. We shall move the troops at sun sett & hope to get thro' the swamp at day break to-morrow. We are, Sir, - with the highest respect your Excellency's & Council's most obed’t Humble servants, JOHN ARMSTRONG. - JNO. BOYD. Directed, His Excell’y, Prest. Dickinson. The late affair at Locust Hill was one of the most impudent and unprovoked attacks that has yet been made, & shall become an early object of our enquiries. The circumstances were as follows, Col. Moore agreeably to a plan which we had concerted in Philad'a, had collected about 20 Volunteers with whom he had taken possession of a little height about midway in the swamp, merely to command the avenue by which we proposed to march, the Coll. had lain there some hours believing himself to be perfectly secure (as they were still in Northampton Co.,) when without any provocation on his part or previous notice on theirs, he was fired upon by the Insurgents, driven into a little hut & there obliged to sustain a two hours attack of great violence, in which three of his men were wounded & one kill'd. The assailants then withdrew into the swamp and the Col. retired hither. This little rencounter would have been much more equal had not Moore himself been ill of a fever & His party so much dispers'd.* DEPOSITION OF ELIPHALET EMMONs—Wyoming—Locust HILL, 1784. Before me, the Subscriber, one of the Justices, &c., in & for the County of Northumberland, personally appeared Eliphalet Emmens, aged thirty one years, who being duly sworn on the holy Evangelist of Almighty God, doth depose and say; on Thursday the 29 5. 1784, there came to my house early in the morning, one Sullivan and Phelps and enquired for two men who had passed the Road the night before, to wit, John Gabel & one Lightly. On Friday morning came one Burwell and another person whom I do not know, & enquired if there was a party of men at Locust hill, I told them that . I did not know. Immediately after came thirteen men commanded * See page 307,
Page 633
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 633 by Waterman Baldwin, & enquired if there was not Macdonnel & a party of men at Locust Hill—I could not tell them. They then went away. On Friday at midnight, came Gideon Church and a young man by name of Jenkins, who said they were going off to New England, They then went off, & came back on Saturday morning about an hour after sunrise; and about half an hour after- wards one Wanorman came in ; Church and Jenkins in conversation mentioned that they had found out by Wanorman that twenty five men were at Locust Hill, They then went away. On Saturday about midnight came Gideon Church and Waterman Baldwin and several others whom from the Darkness I did not know, who said they were going to meet McDonnel's party, even if they went to Locust Hill for him, They said that they had forty men with them. I asked them if they did not think McDonnel was reinforced with some more men. They answered, God Damn him, they did not care, they would fight him where they could meet him. They staid but a few minutes & went off. At Sunday noon Lord Butler, Gideon Church, Prince Alden, & one Harris came to my house & got Dinner, & went off. I asked where the rest of the Party were; some one answered that they were gone back to Wyoming. About three o’Clock on Monday, came Lord Butler & another, who got their Dinner, & ordered something to be got for thirty seven men, who were coming in & whom they said, were almost starved. About 5 o'Clock, the thirty seven men came, & got their Wictuals. John Swift commanded the party, among whom were, Lord Butler, a man called Major Abbot, Waterman Baldwin, John Fuller, William McClure, Gideon Church, Thomas Heath, young Ishmael Bennet, Doctor Minor who was wounded thro' the Leg, Prince Alden, one White, one Sullivan, Abm. Pike, Bill Sloakum, John Platner, one Burbel. When Butler first came he mentioned that they had a skirmish at Locust Hill and had killed a number of the people there; he said he believed that they would not again attempt coming thro' the swamp. After the whole party came up there was a great deal of Conversation about their affair at Locust Hill, the general Tenor of it was of the number of men they had killed & the number of shot they had put thro' the House at Locust Hill. They staid about two hours & then went away. I asked Lord Butler, why he had not taken McDonnel's men prisoners. He said, Damn them we did not want prisoners, but we wanted to shew them that we would not let them come thro’ the swamp. Lord Butler seemed to have the next command to Swift. The Deponent on a number of names being read over to him recollects that the following persons besides those above named were also at his house with the Party on the Return from Locust Hill, Two men by the name of Jenkins, one Gore, Danl. Sullivan, Leonard Cole, Reuben Cook, one Halstead, Edward Inman, one Harris, Stoddart, Spencer, Wm. Smith, one Corey, & Moses Sills. The Deponent is a Tavern keeper & had put
End of Section 205. Continue to next section or 
Section 206
Page 634
634 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. some names down in his Books. He has a personal knowledge of , them all. ELIPHALET EMMONS. Sworn before me at Wyoming, August 9th, 1784. JNo. SEELY. DEPosition of SILENCE EMMONs—Wyoming, 1784. Before me the subscriber one of the Justices, &c., in & for the County of Northumberland personally appeard Silence Emmons, wife of Elephalet Emmens aged 27 years who being duly sworn on the holy Evangelists of . God, doth depose & say in addition to the Deposition of her Husband which was read in her presence, that she heard Lord Butler say, on his return from Locust's Hill, at her husbands house, that he believed they had killed some of the party at Locust Hill. She heard D'Minor say he had seen three of them dead and stiff. SILENCE EMMONS. Sworn before me at Wyoming, August 9th, 1784. JN" SEELY. DEPoSITION OF CHARLEs MANRow—Wyoming, 1784. Northumberland county, ss. On the eleventh day of August in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four, Before me Henry Shoemaker, Esquire, one of the Justices of the Peace in and for the said County, Voluntarily came Charles Manrow, aged Thirty-five years, and upon his solemn oath according te Law did say that on the twenty-second day of July last about one hundred of the New England party among whom were John Franklin, Giles Sloakam, John Holloberg, John Ryon, one Burnham and Abraham Westbrook came to the house of this depo- ment living Stoke Township near Nanticoke in said County all with arms—That John Franklin when he came up to this deponents house spoke to him and ordered him to march, upon which the deponent replied it was just night and that he could not get his creatures so that he could get away. Giles Sloakam immediately says, march away with your family up to the Fort, the deposent still desired to stay till morning & go down the River, But Giles Sloakam insisted that if he did not go that night and should remain there till morning he would make a corpse of him—And afterwards went away towards the Fort. . That this deponent not thinking himself safe to stay in his house left it, and his family in it, and returned to his family about a week after—that John Ryon's after the new England Party
Page 635
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 635 had been before the Fort some days and a cessation of arms had been agreed on, seeing this deponent in the Town, demanded of him what he meant by staying on the ground & threatened that if he did not o away quickly this deponent would wish he had. That John olloberg and Edward Enman after the attack at Locust Ridge told this deponent at his own house, viz., Holloberg told him that a Party of fifty of their men had been in the great Swamp to attack the Penamites coming in to Wyoming, Enman said that they had been to Locust Ridge for the same purpose, and had attacked them at the House there—Enman further said, that it was his opinion they had killed seven or eight, and how many they had wounded he could not tell, and seemed to rejoice greatly at the Success. And further this deponent saith not. his CHARLES >! MANROW. mark. Taken and Sworn the day and year aforesaid, before HENRY SHOEMAKER. DEPOSITION OF JAMEs LANDON.—WyoMING, 1784. Northumberland County, ss. On the eleventh day of August in the year of our Lord One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Four, Before me, Henry Shoemaker, Esquire, one of the Justices of the Peace, in and for the said County Voluntarily came James Landon, aged Thirty-Four ears and made oath on the Holy Evangelists as follows, viz., that John Franklin and John Jenkins several times lately, with Joel Phelps had ordered this deponent to move out of the House he lived in since last spring in Shawomese Township in the said County, for that they would suffer no one to live in that country who would not join them. That Elijah Phelps and one Budd about three weeks ago came to this deponents house and took away his Rifle Gun, threatening that if he did not let them have it they would take ten times the value of it, also his Powder Horn & about half a pound of Powder and ten or twelve Bullets—and said they intended to disarm the Penamites. That about an hour after he this deponent went to John Franklin's and told him about his Gun being taken from him, with Franklin there was one Richard Inman who said to this depo- ment, if you will join us, you shall have your Gun. That Franklin told him he should not have his Gun, neither did he ever get it again—and said he must either go and join them in the Fort, or get out into the Country; for he should not stay there—and added that by the eternal God, if we have to storm the Garrison, we will sacrifice every man we find therein, that had taken up arms against us—That during the time the Fort was besieged, as this deponent was sitting at his own door making a pair of moccosins he heard a Gun fired,
Page 636
- 636 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. looking up, he saw William Smith & William Sloakam who had just shot down an Ox said to belong to one Hewin, and after the Ox was killed & dressed they left it in the care of M" Windship to salt. That whilst this deponent was at a certain time at Windships, one Burnham came there and told, that he, and the man who was then with him had been placed as centries at Shawonese to lay in ambush for the Pennsylvanians, that his orders were to fire upon the Pennsylvanians as soon as they came up and stand their Ground—that if these two Centries heard their Party fire, they were then to leave their Post and go to their assistance, that if it had not been for a dog who discovered the New England Party, they would have cut off the Pennsylvanians to a man—That whilst the Fort was besieged he this deponent heard Caleb Forsythe say that if the Pennsylvanians were so stubborn & would not deliver up the Fort, they would be put to the Sword and they did not know whether they would spare women and children—And that he had heard Waterman Baldwin say, that if they could not hold the Lands at Wyoming by Law, they would by force of arms. JAMES LANDON. Taken and Sworn the day & year above said, Before HENRY SHOEMAKER. DEPoSITION of John KING—Wyoming, 1784. Northumberland County, ss. On the eleventh day of August in the year of our Lord, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Four, voluntarily came before me Henry Shoemaker, Esquire, one of the Justices of the Peace in and for the said County, John King, and made oath on the Holy Evangelists as follows, viz., that on Friday last, the Sixth Instant, William Jacques came to the House of this deponent with John Swift, William Sloakam and Elisha Saterley and gave him notice that he should move out of his House and be gone off the Premises and leave the Place in two days or that they would burn the House down about him, or words to that effect, and then gave a great shout and rode off. That on this eleventh day of August, this deponent with Abraham Goodwin were riding along the road from this depo- nents house and coming to Wyoming, being on the road, a man, whose name this deponent has since been informed is Timothy Underwood was standing by a house where one Woodworth lives, he was armed and there were there two others unarmed, whom this deponent did not know—That Underwood had a Rifle with him belonging to Abraham Goodwin, upon Goodwin's calling to Under- wood to bring to him the Rifle he had, which Goodwin said was his, Underwood made no answer, but put the Rifle to his Shoulder & presented it at Goodwin & this deponent—Upon which they put
End of Section 206. Continue to next section or 
Section 207
Page 637
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 637 themselves on the defence, And Underwood perceiving it, went behind the house and ran off. And further this deponent saith not. JOHN KING. Taken and Sworn the day and year abovesaid, Before - - HENRY SHOEMAKER. DEPosition of HENRY BIRNEY-WyoMING, 1784. Northumberland County, ss: On the Eleventh day of August, in the Year of our Lord, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty Four, Before me, Henry Shoemaker, Esquire, one of the Justices of the Peace in and for the said County, Voluntarily came Henry Burney, aged Forty Four Years, and made oath on the Holy Evangelists, as follows, viz.:- that about the beginning of July last, he, this deponent living in Shawonese Township, in said County, saw John Swift, Elisha Saterley, William Jaquez, and a number of other persons, and at different other times, pass along the Road near where this deponent lives, with arms in their hands, to and fro, to what they called Head Quarters, about a mile distant from his house; that this Deponent had frequent conversation with Swift & Saterley & one Joel Phelps, who had ordered him often to go out of his house, and threatened that if he did not go away and move into the Fort, they would abuse him, by beating him and so forth, insomuch that he was afraid of his life. That on the twentieth of July last, after the ambuscade at Shawonese, he, this deponent, saw one Burnham, who with others had gone out to lay in wait for some persons that had gone that day from the fort to Shawenese; that Burnham was speaking to Wind- ship & his Family; that he overheard Burnham say, that he & his º Party would have cut all the Pennsylvanians off that were on their Return to the Fort from Shawenese, if it had not been for a dog, that Burnham said he saw on the Road; one man, Brink, killed, & that several others were killed. That this Deponent says, Daniel Pierce and others frequently told him, that they intended to storm the fort where the Pennsylvanians were, if they did not deliver it up in a few days, and that the Pennsylvanians in the Fort must abide by the consequences if they were stormed therein—and that Daniel Pierce. Elisha Saterley, and others, swore that they were de- termined to clear the Ground at Wyoming and the other Settle- ments in the vicinity of the Pennsylvanians, for they would not suffer any of them to remain thereon. That the day after Major McDaniel & the Party were attacked at Locust Ridge, Elisha Sater- ley & this Deponent met together, and Saterley asked him, what do you think of the Pennamites now—That they were not able to
End of Section 207. Continue to next section or 
Section 208
Page 638
638 PENNSYWLANIA ARCHIVES 1784. fight them at all; for, by G–d, we have killed forty of them yester- day. And further this Deponent saith not. HENRY BIRNEY. Taken and Sworn the Day and year abovesaid, Before HENRY SHOEMAKER. DEPOSITION OF LEAH WANGARDER—WYOMING, 1784. Northumberland County, ss: On the Eleventh Day of August, in the Year of our Lord One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty Four, Before me, Henry Shoemaker, Esquire, One of the Justices of the Peace in and for the said County, Voluntarily came Leah Vangarder, and made Oath on the Holy Evangelists, that on the Twentieth day of July last, whilst Wilhelmus Wangarder was at the house of Frederick Evelands, in Shawenese Township, in the said County, lying there from a wound he had received the same day at Shawonese from some one of the New England Party, and this deponent being then also with him, a certain Thomas Heath, of the said New England Party, came into the house, and asked the said Wilhelmus Wangarder if he knew who it was that was about to kill him after he was wounded; Wangarder said, no; Heath then replied that it was he that was going to kill him; and soon after, upon going away, he wished Wangarder well, and said, he hoped that if he said Heath should ever fall into Wan- garder's hands, he hoped he would not serve him so. And further this Deponent saith not. her LEAH >4 WANGARDER, z mark. Taken and Sworn the Day and Year abovesaid, Before HENRY SHOEMAKER. PERSONs who BoRE ARMs—Wyoming, 1784. 1 Jn" Franklin, 8 William Jacques, 16 Daniel Peirce, 2 Ebenezer Johnson, 9 Joel Abbott, v. e. 17 Timothy Under- 3 Jn" Swift, v. e. 10 Jn" Ryon, wood, 4 Giles Slocum, 11 Lord Butler, v. 18 William Ross, v. 5 Phenias Peirce, 12 Elisha Sattale, v.e. 19 William Jenkins, v. 6 John Jenkins, 13 Elisha Drake, - 20 William Slocum, V. 7 Waterman Baldwin14 Phenias Stephens, 21 William Jackson,v. W. o. 15 Gidion Church, v. 22 Benjamin Smith,
Page 639
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 639 23 Frederick Budd, 46 Nathan Wade, 63 Joseph Tyler, 24 Walter Spencer, v. 47 Ishmael Bennet, 64 Cornelius Brown, 25 Elisha Harding, v. 48 Joseph Cory, v. 65 James Brown, 26 Thomas Stoddard,v.49 Sale Roberts, 66 Thomas Neill, 27 Daniel Sullivan, v. 50 Elisha Bennet, 67 Jnº. Platner, v. 28 Joel Phelps, 51 Abraham Pike, v. 68 Rheuben Cook, 29 Noah Phelps, 52 John Holbert, v. 69 Jeremiah White, v. 80 Thomas Heath, v. Spy, 70 Samuel Cary, 31 Jnº. Minor, v. 53 Leonard Cole, 71 Justice Gaylord,v. 32 Benj. Blanchard, 54 Isakel Burnham, 72 Pelick Comstock, 33 Leban Blanchard, 55 William Hybbert, 73 Jonathan Burwell, 34 Mason Alden, Spy, W. 35 Prince Alden, v. 56 Ishmael Bennet, 74 Joseph Stiles, 36 Abraham Nesbit, v. Ju', v. e. 75 William M*Clure,v. 37 Jn" Gore, v. 57 William Smith, 76 Richard Halsted, v. 38 Avery Gore, Ju', v. 77 y 39 Nathaniel Cook, 58 Benjamin Jenkins, 78 John Fuller, v. 40 Elijah Harris, v. W. 79 Moses Sills, v. 41 Richard Inman, 59 Nathan Cary, (A Coppy.) - 42 Jn." Inman, 60 Abraham Worl. 80 William Hide, v. 43 William Jones, brook, 81 Ned Walker, v. 44 Edward Inman, v. 61 Rosecrance, 82 Thomas Read, Spy. 45 Josiah Pell, 62 Jnº. O'Neill, Indorsed, 11th Aug't, 1784, Names of the persons who have borne Arms in the late outrages, presented by Jnº. Franklin, their leader, on yesterday. (Copy.) No 1. DEPOSITIONs. Abraham Gooden Being duly sworn, doth depose & say, about the middle of July, Jiles Slocum, Gideon Church & eight others came to the house of the Deponent about Noon and Plundered the house of two Rifles and some Ammunition and went off, about a week afterwards Came one Phelps and seven others, and Demanded of the Deponents wife the keys of the Chest, Mr Gooden being Terrifi’d by their talk and appearance opened the Chest, out of which they took some Ammunition, the Deponent also heard one Tyler swear they would storm the Fort and put every one to Death, the Children they would Tawmehack. The Deponent asked Timothy Underwood this day for his Rifle, said Underwood cocked his Rifle to shoot the Deponent. ABRAHAM GOODWIN. , Wyoming, Aug’t 11th, 1784. Sworn before me at JN" SEELY. º
Page 640
640 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. No 2. Pamelia Tayler Being duly sworn doth depose and say, about the sixteenth of July came one Stephens and several others to the house of the Deponents father & Threatened to kill the old man, they would cut him in Inch pieces and burn him, any other Death was too good for him, farther said they would drive Every one to the fort, and they would put Men Women & Children to death, that they Disregarded the Laws, there was none for them or against them, they had kept the ground by the point of the sword, and was deter- mined to keep it so still, the Tuesday following the Deponent went to see Willhelmas Wº Gorden a man that was wounded by the Con- necticut Party, amoung some discourse the deponent heard the wounded man say to one Thos. Heath, Jun', that the yankeys fired first, farther said as they were walking along the Road, said W. Gor- den spy'd a dog in the Bushes, and was turning towards Henry Brink who was Next to him, to tell him he believ'd it was a yankey dog, Just as he was going to speak he the s'd W* Gorden & Brink was both shot, and looking towards Heath who was seting on the Bed- side said you are the person that was going to Blow out my Brains as I was Laying there wounded and would have done it had it not been for one of your party that struck away your gun and Repre- manded you for so doing. h er PAMELLA TAYLER. mark Wyoming, Aug 12th, 1784. Sworn before me at JN° SEELY. No. 3. Before me the subscriber one of the Justices in & for the County of Northumberland personally appeared Jonathan Marsh who being duly sworn, doth depose & say, That he has repeatedly seen the people called Connecticut settlers drive away his neighbours cattle, Hogs, & Sheep & kill them. That some time in June the Deponent was at the house of Jacob Stroud in Northampton County, where he saw one Stoddart and one Pearce, with about Eight or ten of the Connecticut People, The Deponent was then driving up some cattle Sheep & Hogs, they asked him where he was going with them, he answered to Susquehannah some of them said “ God dam you get “ along with them, We wish you had ten times as many, for we “ design to have them all soon.” The Deponent then came along, after his arrival at Susquehanah in conversation with one Chester
End of Section 208. Continue to next section or 
Section 209
Page 641
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 641 Pearce, the Deponent asked him, how he thought matters would go, He answered, “By God the woods shall be as full of White Indians “this Summer as ever they were of Black ones,—we intend to lay “in the woods if nothing else will do & shoot the Heads of the “Pennsylvanians.” The Deponent about two weeks ago heard Benjamin Hervy say, “God damm the Laws of this State & all “ those who made them.” -* JONATHAN MARSH. Augt. 10th, 1784. Sworn before me at Wyoming JNo. SEELY No. 4. Anthony Bunsioto Being duly sworn doth depose and say on the 10th Instant he heard Benjamin Harvey say, that there would be more fighting, if it was not now it would be in the fall and there would be more kill'd than what has been. his - ANTHONY 4 BUNSIOTO. mark. Aug. 11th, 1784. Sworn before me at Wyoming, JNo. SEELY. No. 5 Mary Cooley being duly sworn doth depose and say about the 20th or 21st of July as I was dressing the wound of Henry Brink who had been shot in four places by a party of the Conecticut settlers John Swift, William Sloakum, & Wm. Smith, Mason Alden & a number of other men to the number of fifteen, came to my house, Swift ordered me to be out of the house by the next morn- ing, I told him I could not go & leave the wounded man & Likewise ask'd him by what authority he ordered me out, Swift damn'd me and said it was by his own, farther said with a Severe oath if I was not out by Nine o'clock to morrow he would burn the house over my head, I said I had but one life to loose if it was my fate to be kill'd by him I could not help it, Swift then ask'd where Mr. Cooley was, I told him I did not know but that he had kill'd him, Swift said let him be where he would if he could find him arm'd or unarm'd he would kill him, and then went off, the second Day after, Prince Alden, Willm. Jones, Walterman Baldwin, Daniel Peirce, Phineas -
Page 642
642 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Stephens and one Bennet came to my house, Watt. Baldwin told me the half hour was Expired & I must march I beged for time to move my things off, Peirce & Baldwin told me I should have none & Immediately Threw my things out of the house and marched me off wth a Guard to the River, I beged of them to let me have my cows, which they utterly Refus'd, I asked Phineas Stephens & Willm. Jones how they Expected to hold the Lands they said no other way than by the Point of the Sword, before I cross'd the River I saw Willm. Smith one Brown & Ishmael Bennet Plunder & carry off my meal &c., I then Crossed the River and came to the fort for my further Stfety. her MARY - COOLEY. Sworn before me at Wyoming, mark. Augt. 10th, 1784. JNo. SEELY. No. 6. Catharine Courtright, aged 22 years, being duly sworn, doth de- pose and say: On the 20th of July I was at the house my mother Lived in. Thos. Heath, Junr., & Phineas Stephens with four others Came in the house, and a great Body out about the street (this was Just at dark); the Party afores" Ordered me out of the house Emediately, when one of s” Party took a Chunk of fire and try’d to kindle it in one corner of the House but could not, when Ste- phens at the same time order'd him to burn it Down, then went off; soon after Leonard Cole came and swore he would have satisfaction if he killed every Pennemite on the ground, and went off. Then one Thomas Heath came and said he and their Party Laid on their bellies in the Bushes; he, the sº Heath told me he saw Helmes Van Gorden, and Henry Brink coming along the Road; as W* Gorden was Nearest him he fired at him and Helmes Wr Gorden fell on his ass, and another of their men which was next to him in the Bushes, fired on Henry Brink. The said Thomas Heath, Jun', said he saw Brink's Rifle Drop out of his hand, and his arm swing as he went off. Heath said he then Drew his Tawmahock and ran up to Helmes W*Gorden to Tawmehock him, but W*Gorden beg'd for Quarters. Heath said he then drew back in the Bushes to load his gun again. The guns began to fire from all Quarters; John Franklin, who was Commander of said Party, came to the door, and Ordered my Mother and myself to be off by daylight, or expect what would follow. One of the Party said Damn their souls, Nail them up in the House and burn them all up alive. her CATHARINE >4 CORTRIGHT. Sworn before me at Wyoming, mark. Aug 11th, 1784. JNo. SEELY. }
Page 643
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 643 No. 7. Elizabeth Van Orman being Duly sworn doth depose and say, that on Satterday, the 24th of July, as I was helping Mrs. Sims to move her effects to the fort, I heard Richard Inman & William Hebbard, in Company with a Number of others, Declare that as long as there was six of them Living they would lay in the woods and would kill and Destroy all they could ; at the same time Rich- ard Inman told me to move away, for there was one of their men one to John Swift for orders to shoot at Women & Children. jºin. this time the Connecticut People kept up a constant fire towards the fort. The Tewsday following as I was fetching a Pail of Water, there was Eight guns fired at me by the afores' Connect- ticut Party. her ELIZABETH 6 Wn ORMAN. • mark. the 11th Aug', 1784. Sworn before me at Wyoming, JNo. SEELY. } No. 8. Garret Shoemaker, aged 50 years, being duly sworn, doth de- pose and say that some time in June, after the Supreme Court at Sunbury, the Deponent was going to Shawanee to get two Bushells of Rye to carry to Mill, when John Inman & one young man by the name of Corey took him prisoner & carried him down below Nanticoke falls. Some time after he was taken John Swift joined the party. The Deponent heard Swift, Inman, & Corey threaten that they would be the death of every Pennamite on the Ground. They particularly mentioned Captn. Ball, Henry Shoemaker, Esqr., Alexander Patterson, Esqr., whom they threatened not only to murder, but to roast into the bargain. Below Nantikoke falls near forty well armed men who had been out on different parties, came together. John Swift, who is a Deputy of Sheriff Antis, and John Franklin had the Command of the men. One Myers, another Deputy of Sheriff Antis, was also there and joined in threatening with the others. Meyers seemed exceeding intimate & friendly with the Connecticut men, but abused the Deponent & two other prisoners very much. Swift, Inman & Corey beat the Deponent with their iron Ramrods, then knock'd him down with their Guns, mashed his foot, broke one of his thumbs and two of his Ribs. The Deponent demanded their authority for using him in the manner they did, but they could show none. They carried him to Sunbury Gaol, but he was soon released. A man who is a stranger to the
End of Section 209. Continue to next section or 
Section 210
Page 644
644 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Deponent was his security. After the Deponent returned home one Burnam came to the Deponent's house & threatened if the Deponent did not instantly remove his family he would kill him & burn his house. The Deponent was forced to remove, & came up to the Fort as the only place of Safety, where he has remained ever since. . The party of Connecticut People have robbed him of every thing he had in the world, and destroyed his garden & crop in the Ground. his GERRET × SHOEMAKER. mark. Augt. 10th, 1784. Sworn before me at Wyoming, JNo. SEELY. - No. 9. Before me the subscriber, one of the Justices in and for the County of Northumberland, personally appeared Catharine Simms, aged thirty years, who being duly sworn on the holy Evangelists of Almighty God, doth depose and say that in the forenoon of the twenty-third of July last, the deponent saw a number of the Con- necticut settlers coming from the Woods southward of the house in which the deponent lived in Wyoming; as they directed their course towards the house, the deponent fastened the door. When they came up they ordered her to open the door & let them in; she refused, and then they attempted to force the door open, but failing in that, they burst open & broke a Window at which one entered & opened the door inside & let the rest in. William Sloakum burst open the Window. When the party came in they turned her out, & ordered her to go into the Fort, which she said she would not do, as she had rather stay in her own house. They then went to the Window and began to fire upon the Fort; they fired several guns upon the fort before one shot was returned. William Sloakum and William Ross were the only two of the party that Deponent knew. After firing pretty briskly for about half an hour they went off, leaving the Deponent and her children in her house. The next morning Giles Sloakum and Phineas Pearce came to the Deponent's about Breakfast time, and asked for Deponent's Husband. She informed them that he was not at home. Giles Sloakum looked about the house, and observed to the Deponent that she had removed some of her Effects; she answered no, that she had taken her Bed & slept with her children in the Cellar, as she was afraid to stay up stairs. Giles Sloakum and Phineas Pearce, who had both fire-arms, went into the Garden and crept through the potatoes up to the head of the Garden toward the fort, and laid down under the fince. While Sloakum & Pearce lay in the Garden, Phineas Ste-
Page 645
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 645 phens and two others came to the door and seeing the Deponent's two Cows at the door, Stephens ordered the other two that were with him to take off the Cows. The Deponent entreated them at least to leave her one Cow, but they would not. The deponent took hold of the Rope of one of the Cows, but Stephens struck her away, & ordered her to remove with her children, for if he caught . her in the house again it would be worse for her; the deponent was forced to remove. While she was trying to get a few of her things out of the house, Nathan Carey, Richard Inman, one Hebbert, one Gore, Wm. Ross, Nathan Walker & many others came up to the house. A short time after she removed into the fort. A smart firing begun soon after. The Deponent before she went to the fort, went to John Franklin who commands the Connecticut party to endeavour to get her Cows. He gave her no satisfactioe. Every thing the Deponent left in her house was plundered, and her garden destroyed. Further the Deponent saith not. CATHARINE SIMS. Augt. 10, 1784. Sworn before me at Wyoming, JNo. SEELY. No. 10. Lois King being duly sworn, doth depose and say, that her hus- band's house, in which she lived, is just above Forty fort. Some- time in the middle of July, Phineas Stephens, Edward Inman, Elisha Satterlay & Ishmael Bennet, jr., came to her house & threat- ened to set fire to it, with many other threats to throw her into the River. Being afraid of her Life if she staid, the Deponent came down to the Town of Wyoming to ask advice what she should do. When she went back to her house, she found the Roof tore off, and the house plundered ; Benjamin Jenkins, Gideon Church, William Jacques were in her house when she returned from the fort. The deponent when she went back collected what few things she could find, & came down about half a mile below her home to the house of the Widow Harris. When she came to the Widow Harris's she saw Gideon Church, who had came on before her, and Waterman Baldwin. When she had passed a little distance from Harris's house, Waterman Baldwin shot at her; the Ball missed her, but went thro' the thigh of her Dog that was walking close by her side. She knows Baldwin fired at her, for she turned round instantly & saw him with his Gun in his hand & the smoke of the Powder over his head. LOIS KING. Augt. 10th, 1784. JNo. SEELY, Wol. X. —28 Sworn before me at sº
Page 646
646 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. No. 11. Hannah Schoonhover being duly sworn doth Depose & say, that on the 22nd of July about sunrise, I saw Walterman Baldwin, Doctor Minor and a Number of others belonging to the Connecticut Party Coming towards my house, I stept out of the door & ordered my Sister- inlaw to stay in the house and Barr the Door with an Iron Barr which was for that purpose, & by no means to open the door for them, when they came up Walterman Baldwin then ask'd me if there was any men in the house or about it I told him there was not, he then ask'd me to open the door, I told him I would not, he then said he would soon find a way to open it, and Broke it open, said Baldwin then asked me to open the Chests I told I would open none for him nor no other Person, he then Broke open the Chests and Plunder'd them of all the most valuable effects, Baldwin with this Party then went off and in about an hour after returned with a number more then order'd me to take off my effects and march off to the fort or through the swamp, 1 refus’d to do either upon which they took and threw all my Goods out of the house, and went off, Immediately afterwards one Innman came with three or four others and order'd me to go with them to Shawene Garrison, I Refused, they told me if I did not I should fare worse, when I saw there was no help for me, I went with them down to the Garrison where I saw John Franklin with about forty men sd. Franklin Commanded the Party and told me to march through the swamp or to the Fort, if I did not I would be abus'd. her HANNAH (H) SCHOONHOWER. mark. Sworn before me at Wyoming, Aug. 10th, 1784. No. 12. Isaac Taylor being duly sworn doth depose and say, that, on the 8th Instant I heard Phineas Stephens say if they the Connecticut Claimants could not now obtain their Lands they would lay in am- bush and fight as long as they liv'd, I likewise heard one Abraham Pike swear by his maker (On hearing of Ezekiel Schoonhever Coming into Shawana) he would shoot sid. Schoonhover and took his Rifle with an Intent to shoot him, I told Mr. Schoonhover of sq. Pikes Design & he kept out of his way, this was done by Pike this day. ISAAC TAYLOR. Aug, 10th, 1784. Sworn before me at Wyoming, JNo. SEELY.
End of Section 210. Continue to next section or 
Section 211
Page 647
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 647 No. 13. Mary Long being Duly sworn doth depose and say, on the fourth day of Augt. Benjamin Harvey said I should move out of my house if I did not the yankeys would set it on fire, I likewise heard a Number of the Connecticut People say if the Lands at Wyoming was not given back to them they would fight as long as there was three of them Living. her MARY >: LONG, mark. Augt. 10th, 1784. Sworn before me at Wyoming, JNo. SEELY. No. 14. William Hartman being duly sworn doth depose & say, about the 22nd of July Josiah Pell three of the Innmans one Willm. Jones and a Number of others of the Connecticut Claimants came to the house of the Deponent With John Franklin their Commander who order'd him to move off Immediately, the Deponent heard Numbers of the party say they Intended to drive all the Inhabitants into the Fort & after they had done that they Intended to Storm the Fort and kill Man, Woman & Child, the Deponent farther heard Elijah Harris say that a Number of them Lay in ambush to shoot the Pennsylvanians who was coming up that way and would have kill'd them all, but was Discovered by a Dog, which caus’d them to fire sooner than they would have done, & that their party had the first fire and shot down but two, Holms Wn. Gordon & Henry Brink. his WILLIAM 24 HARTMAN. mark. Augt. 11th, 1784. Sworn before me at Wyoming, JNo. SEELY. No 15. Before me the Subscriber one of the Justices of the Peace in & for the County of Northumberland personly appeared John Karey who being duly sworn doth depose and say, that the day after the Skir- mish at Shawena I heard several of the Connecticut Party say, that they did not see they could have any benefit of the Law they had
Page 648
648 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. try’d it out, and they would now try if they could not make Law come. I likewise heard Richard Innman say the 9th Ins’t if they were Defeated at Wyoming this time they would go to Connecti- cut and bring assistance Enough. - Sworn before me at JOHN CARY. Wyoming, Aug 11th, 1784. JN" SEELY. º No 16. John Kraun being duly sworn doth depose and say, on Satterday the 8th Ins’t, he heard Lenard Cole say they had sought for Law this Nine months but could find none, and was now determined to find law, that it was likewise against the orders of government to keep a Fortification, if it was not Demolish'd they would Demolish it and would Likewise take Alex'r Patterson for he deserved to be torn to pieces with horses. On Monday following heard Nathaniel Cook & Ruben Cook say they had killed but few, but would give them another Indian Blast. his JOHN × KRAUN. mark Sworn before me at Wyoming, 11th Aug', 1784. JN" SEELY. No 17. Samuel Karr being duly sworn doth depose and say, on the 23" of July Lord Buttler took him the deponant prisoner to John Franklin where he received Considerable of abuse, & was ordered to turn off his Premises, Likewise Ishmael Bennet threatened to Blow his Brains out if ever he the deponent was seen on the ground, the Deponent farther says he heard Elijah Harris (who was one of the party Commanded by one Major Abbot) say, that they heard of a party of the Pennemites coming from Shawena, they Lay in ambush for them and was ordered not a man to fire untill their Commander Abbott fired first, and then they would Perhaps cut off the greatest part of the first fire, but being afraid they were discovered by a dog which was in the Bushes two of their men fired, he the sº Harris said he then step'd in the Road to see if he could get a shot and seen none but the wounded man (Helms V" Gorden) and Tho's Heath Jun'r one of their party (who had his gun up and was going to shoot the wounded man) said Harris cau't Heath by the arm and Call'd him a Damn’d son of a Bitch for going to shoot a Wounded man. SAMUEL KARR. Sworn before me at Wyoming, Aug 11th, 1794. JN" SEELY.
Page 649
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 649 No. 18. DEPoSITION OF THoMAs BRINK, 1784. Northumberland County, ss. * On the Twelfth day of August, in the year of our Lord One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Four, Before me, Henry Shoemaker, Esquire, One of the Justices of the Peace in & for the said County, Voluntarily Came Thomas Brink and made oath on the Holy Evangelists as follows, viz., that about Two weeks ago he, this Deponent, was at the house of Lucy Harvey, at the Lower End of Shawnese Flats, in Company with Jonathan Marsh, where also was one Benjamin Harvey; and Harvey speaking of the Laws of Connecticut Government and of the Laws of Pennsylvania, and comparing them with one another, he got up in a Rage and damn’d the Laws of Pennsylvania and them that made them --And-that four or Five days ago a certain Reuben Cook, in this deponent s House, at Shawnese, told him that the Houses standing near the Hill, on the Shawnese Flats, must be pulled down, for they should not stand there, and in particular James Benscotter's House, for neither he or his Family should stay there. And this deponent further says, that sometime last Week towards the latter End, the High Sheriff of the said County, Henry Antes, Esq., passing by this deponent's House stopped there to feed his Horse, having three other Persons in Company with him; this deponent, desirous to know how matters were like to go on, asked Mr. Antes, the Sheriff, a few Questions, who informed this deponent that he had ordered the New England People to take their Arms, and go to their Possessions, for that People were not to stand still and be killed, and to take care of their Grain and Grass; that there was to be no more turning out of houses by either Party, but matters were to be decided at Law—That the Sheriff said the People here, and the deponent apprehended that by the People he meant those in the Fort, had a wrong apprehension of the militia that were coming up to their assistance, for that they, the Militia, were coming up to put the Law in force; that Two Justices had been left at Wyoming, and another would be sent immediately, and that would make a Quorum—And further this deponent saith In Ot. THOMAS BRINK. Taken and Sworn the day and year aforesaid, Before Henry Shoemaker. No. 19. DEPOSITION OF JonATHAN MARSH, 1784. Northumberland County, ss. On the Twelfth Day of August, one thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-four, Before me, Henry Shoemaker, Esqr., one of the Justices
Page 650
650 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. of the Peace for Said County, voluntary Came Jonathan Marsh, and made Oath on the Holy Evangelists as follows: that about the Seventh of August, at the House of Thomas Brink, in Shawnies Township and County aforesaid, Heard Henry Antici Say that He had Ordered the yankyies to Come Home and take there Respective Possessions as Heretifour, and ordered them to go to Harvesting the grain and to Cuting the Hay; and farther Said He Had ordered the yankyies to take there armes, for men was not to Staud Still and be Killed—and farther Saith that a Short time after the Scurmage of Locust Hill, in Northampton County, Heard Thomas Hath, Juner, and Bennet Boasting and Laughing, and Said that they ware there them Selves and Came on the Pensylvanians in three Parties and approacht very nigh them before the Pennemights Saw them, and fired on them and Left Eight of the Pencylvanians on the ground to Keep Possession; and farther Saith Not. JONATHAN MARSH. Taking and Sworne the Day and year above Said, HENRY SHOEMAKER. JonATHAN SEELY TO HENRY ANTES, Esq., SHERIFF of Non- THUMBERLAND CJUNTY, 1784. S Wyoming, Aug’t 12th, 1784. Ir, I this day, about Eleven O'Clock, Rec'd a Letter (from Tho's McKean, Esqr., one of the Chief Justices of this State,) by your hands, which was delivered to me Open, Directing me to Deliver to you a List of those who had Enter’d Bail to answer at the Supreme Court to their Indictments; the Under Written Names is a List of all those Enter’d Bail before me. JNO. SEELY. Ebenezer Taylor, Joseph Solomon, Alex'r Patterson, Silas Taylor, Ezekiel Schoonhover, Sam’l Reed, Joseph Matania, . Henry Brink, B. W. Ball, Samuel V." Gordon, Tunis Coobert, • Luke Brodhead, Helmes V" Gordon, William Brink, Lawrence Kinney, James Brink, John Borlen [kind] Preserv'd Cooley, John Cortright, Abr’m V*'Cortright, Robert Biggars, Benjamin Hillman, Elisha Cortright, Gabriel Ogden, Martin Tidd, Benaijah Monday, David Ogden, Daniel Swartz, • Jacob Tilghbury, Jacob Kline, Isaiah Colver, • Henry Shoemaker, Rudolph Litz, James Colver, And'w Henderson, Will'm McDonnald, Isaac Clinkefoos, John Seely, Directed, º To Henry Antis, Sheriff North'd County.
Page 651
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 651 No. 20. DEPOSITION OF BARNABAs CARY, 1784. Before me, John Seely, Esqr., one of the Justices of the peace in and for the County of Northumberland, Came Barnabas Karey, aged 51 Years, and made oath on the Holy Evangelists; says that towards the Latter end of May, he, the said Deponent, saw a Letter sent from one Moyers, then a Deputy Sheriff under Sheriff Antis, Inviting the People that were Dispossessed by the Pennsylvanians to Return back to Wyoming, that Sheriff Antis would be on the ground about the middle of June with two Magistrates, and would give them all Possession again, which Induced the said Deponent to Return to Wyoming again; this Letter was handed about by one John Jenkins. BARNABAS CARY. Sworn before me at Wyoming, Aug. 14th, 1784. No. 21. DEPoSITION of HENRY BRINK, 1784. Before me, the subscriber, one of the Justices of the Peace in and for the County of Northumberland appeared Henry Brink aged 22 years, and Being duly sworn doth depose and say, on Tewsday the 20th July as he the said deponent was marching in Company with one Wilhelmas Wn. Gorden from Shawena towards Kingstown flats, being about one Hundred yards in front of Squire Shoemaker and some others, near two miles from Shawana garrison the Deponent spy’d a Dog in the road before him, he then turn'd to Helmas Wn. Gorden & asked what was meaning of that dog being in the Road, Willhelmas Wm. Gorden said he did not know, but believed it belong'd to the house above, the dog then turned in the Bushes, the Deponent Looking in the Bushes and saw them shake, told Wn. Gorden he believed there was Yankeys there, Wn. Gorden said it was nothing but Calves, and Immediately on mentioning it the second or third time there was Eight or Nine guns fired at the s” Deponent and Willhelmas Wn Gorden, four shots of which hit and wounded the Deponent, two through the left arm, one in the Breast, and one through the Right arm, and one shot Wounded Willhelmas Wn. Gorden, the Deponent further saith that after the first Eight or nine guns were fired, the Yankeys Raised the Indian yell and fired about fifteen guns before any of the Pennsylvanians fired a gun, the Deponent farther says, himself & Wn. Gorden never Discharged their Guns, that Willhelmas Wn. Gorden's Rifle fell off his shoulder when he Dropt. HENRY BRINK. Taken & sworn before me at Shawena, August 15th, 1784. JNo. SEELY.
Page 652
652 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. No. 22. DEPOSITION of WILLHELMAs WN. GoRDEN, 1784. Willhelmas Gorden Being duly sworn doth depose & say, that on Tuesday the 20th of July, on their march as before sworn by Henry Brink, about two miles from Shawana Garrison there was a Number of the Connecticut party lay in ambush & fired on the Deponent & Henry Brink, but what number of Guns was fired or what Pass'd he the said Deponent does not remember, farther than that he heard Henry Brink cry out Lord a mercy, and saw his Rifle Drop, and one Thomas Heath, jun’r, came up to the said Deponent draw'd his Rifle up to his face & was going to shoot the sº Deponent, but one of their men stopt sº Heath from killing sº Deponent, the Deponent being shot senseless says was the reason of his not remembering any farther particulars that happened. his WILLEIELMAS >3 WAN GORDEN. mark. Sworn before me at º Shawena, Aug't 15th, 1784. JNo. SEELY. No. 23. DEPOSITION OF JONAs TURNER, 1784. Jonas Turner aged 19 years, being duly sworn on the holy Evan- gelist doth depose and say, that the fourteenth Inst., he was at a place known by the name of the Stone Cabin near Locust Hill in presence of Captain Schott and the Prisoners who were on their way to Easton Goal, that the sº Deponent heard said Schott Inform said prisoners not to be Discouraged for they would only have a walk to Easton and back again that he had in black and white sealed in his pocket, Instructions to take a list of the names of the Connecticut Claimants with the Quantity of Land they held that the President of the State had Instructed him to make such Enquery and that they should have one half of all such land for that the Pennsylvanians were wrong and had no Business on Locust Hill, and Desired the Prisoners to make a list of their names and send it to him for he would go to Philadelphia next week,- and that Schott, putting his hand to his Pocket said to the Prisoners, that he there had Instructions in writing more than he told them about. his JONAS 54 TURNER. mark. Sworn before me } this 16 Aug't, 1784. JNo. SEELY.
End of Section 211. Continue to next section or 
Section 212
Page 653
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 653 “LIST of AFFIDAVITs TAKEN AT Wyoming, 1784.” Depredations & Threats at Wioming. Abm. Goodwin,'............................. August 11, 1784. Johnnathan Marsh,......................... do. 10, do. Anthony Bunscoto,......................... do. 11, do. Mary Kooly, ................................ do. 10, do. John King,.................................. do. 11, do. Eliz. Van Orman,.......................... do. 11, do. Garrit Shoemaker,........................... do. 10, do. Catherine Sims,.............................. do. 10, do. Lois King,.................................... do. 10, do. Hanna Schonhover,........................ do. 10, do. Isaac Taylor,.............. .................. do. 10, do. Mary Long,.................................. do. 10, do. John Cary,................................... do. 11, do. John Craven,................ • - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - do., 11, do. Concerning the attack at Locust Hill.... Charles Monro,.............................. do. 11, do. • Eliphalet Emmons,......................... do. 9, do. Silence Emmons,............................ do. 9, do. John Patnors Examination................ Attack of the Garrison at Wioming...... Brink & Wan Gordon....................... do. 15, do. Henry Burney,.............................. do. 11, do. Leah Vangardner, .......................... do. 11, do. James Lardner, ............................. do. 11, do. Pamelia Taylor,............................. do. 12, do. Cathn. Cortright,........................... do. 11, do. Wm. Hartman,.............................. do. 11, do. Saml. Karr.................................. do. 11, do, Summons to the Garrison.................. John ARMSTRONG To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Wyoming, 24th August, 1784. Sir, The enclos'd letters from Colonels Willson & Kern, contain some intelligence very closely connected with the peace & happiness of this unfortunate Country; & which, if I may hazard an Opinion, will deserve the immediate attention of Government—I have there- fore dispatched them to your Excellency by Express. The whole of the Militia has been dismiss'd some days since, & your Excellency's orders concerning the works, arms, &c., executed. * So indorsed. 28+
Page 654
654 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. These events, you will readily conceive, have left the Pennsylvania claimants in a very disagreeable situation—& joined to the conduct of the Sheriff, will Induce, I'm afraid, to a very general desertion of the Country, or what is perhaps more to be dreaded—an immedi- ate appeal to arms. I would only farther observe to your Excel- lency that the hands which have been already loosed by the Sheriff are among the most dangerous of the whole number, & that I have every reason to believe they will be joined to those of Swift & Abbot before this letter can reach Philada. Enclosed is also a list of those persons who have attach'd them- selves to the fortunes of those two desperate Willains,—& are now collected at Bowman's Creek. I am with the highest respect, your Excellency's most obedient & very humble servant, -- JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr.” Directed, His Excellency, John Dickinson, Esqr., President of the State. By Express. NICHOLAs KERN To Col. ARMSTRONG, 1784. S Sunbury, 22d August, 1784. Ir, I have to inform you of my arrival at this place with the Priso- ners under my command, yesterday morning Josiah Pill and George Banister made their escape, the remainder I delivered to Sheriff Antes, called the roll and saw them put in Prison, the Sheriff said the Prisoners were now under his care. A few minutes after I saw many of the Prisoners at Liberty—and this morning went to the goal, found Eleven of the number I delivered absent—Inclosed you have their Names. You have much to fear from those men, as I presume they are gone to Wyoming. I march to morrow for North- ampton—beg leave to subscribe myself your obedt. servt., NICHOLAS KERN, Col. Directed, On Public Service. Colonel John Armstrong, Wyoming. Mr. Harris. WILLIAM WILSON TO Col. ARMSTRONG, 1784. Si Sunbury, 25th August, 1784. lr the Prisoners arrived here yesterday, and after they were delivered into the Sheriff's Custody, he gave them Permission to go at large, * See page 319.
Page 655
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 655 which alarmed the Inhabitants exceedingly. One of the Magistrates last Evening ordered them to be closely confined, & ten of them are missing this Morning. There is a Number of the Prisoners now at the Sh’ffs House, & I have the greatest reason to imagine that he has paroled some of them. In Consequence of an application from the most respectable People here, I have ordered a Serjeant's Guard to be mounted at the Goal. This step I hope will meet with your approbation, as 'the present condition of the Goal is such that renders a Measure of that Nature indispensably necessary. I have been extremely ill since my arrival here, with a fever, which prevented me from attending to the Conduct of the Sh'ſſ, & has effectually rendered me unfit for any Business. The Bearer is a young fellow of the Name of Harris, who has agreed to deliver this Letter to you—I was under the Necessity of contracting with him for five Dollars. I would esteem it as a very particular favor if you will hand him that sum. y’r very Hble. Servt., WM. WILSON. Pirected, Public Service. Col. John Armstrong, Wioming. § Express. WM. BRADFORD, JR., To CouncIL of CENsors, 1784. Sept. 8, 1784. Sir, In obedience to the orders of the Council of Censors, dated the 7th instant, I have the honor to transmit to you the five enclosed papers respecting the controversy about the private right of soil to Lands within this state, formerly claimed by the State of Connecti- out. º I have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient Servant, WM. BRADFORD, jun'r. Directed, The Honble F. A. Muhlenberg, Esq., President of the Council of Censors. DEPOSITION OF ABRAMAM PyRE, 1784. Northampton, ss. Personally appeared before me John Boyd, Esquire, of the Supreme Executive Council of this Commonwealth, Abraham Pike, *
Page 656
656 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. of the County of Northumberland, yeoman and being sworn upon the Evangelists of Almighty God, doth depose & say that he was one of a party of Men, who advanced from Wyoming to Bear Swamp, under the direction of John Swift on Saturday, the thirty- first day of July last, and then remained in wait for McDonald's party untill the afternoon of Sunday the 1st of August last, that a consultation was held, (upon the coming in of one Wan horn, who in- formed that there was a dispute existing among the men of Locust Ridge, whether they would then advance or not,) whether they, (Swift & his party) should remain where they then were, return to Wyoming or advance to the Ridge above mentioned, and attack and disperse such men as were there collected, that it was at length determined to proceed, and that they accordingly marched the same evening to a place within a mile and a half or some short distance from Locust Ridge, and there remained ’till morning; when they got again into march finding the party lying & sitting in a dispersed manner under the trees & bushes; they fired upon and drove some of them into the house of one Brown and others into the woods; from whence they began to return the fire; that this engagement lasted for some considerable length of time; that John Swift then called off his party and returned with them to Wyoming; the even- ing of the same day being Monday the second day of August last, & that the said party consisted of the following persons, to wit: John Swift, Waterman Baldwin, Joel Abbot, Elisha Satterlee, Lord Butler, Wm. Slocum, Gideon Church, Benjamin Jenkins, William Jenkins, Elisha Harris, Ishmael Bennet, the younger Daniel Sullivan, John Gore, Richard Holsted, Edward Inman, Jeremiah White, Jonathan Burnwell, Elisha Harding, Walter Spencer, Wil- liam McClure, Prince Alden, William Jackson, John Fuller, John Minor, Avery Gore, William Smith, Jun'r, Abraham Nesbitt, John Holbert, Moses Sills, William Hide, Nathaniel Walker, & John Plattner, & farther this doponent says not. ABRAHAM PYKE. Sworn and subscribed before me this 14th day of September, 1784. JNO. BOYD: DEPoSITION of J. McoRE, 1784. Northampton, ss. Personally appeared before me John Boyd, Esquire, member of the Supreme Executive Council of this Commonwealth, James Moore, of the county of Northumberland, yeoman, and being sworn upon the holy evangelists of Almighty God, doth depose and say, that being at Locust Ridge, in the county of Northampton (with a small party of men, there stationed in consequence of the directions
Page 657
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 657 of the Commissioners, (The Hon. John Boyd & John Armstrong, jr's, Esq’rs,) on Monday, the second day of August last, about ten o'clock in the morning, He, the deponent was alarmed by the dis- charge of fire arms, that upon seeking the cause of it, he discovered the men of McDonald's party running towards the house without arms, and followed by others who were firing upon them as they fled; that among the number of those who took refuge in the cab- bin, in which the Deponent was, came Jacob Everett, who soon afterwards received a ball in his forehead by which he expired in about half an hour; that the firing continued after this for some time, by which two men were wounded; that after it had ceased, the body of the above mentioned Everett was interred near the hut in which he was killed, and farther this deponent saith not. J. MOORE. rººm and subscribed before me this 14th day of September, - JNO, BOYD. ACT of AsseMBLY, Wyoming, 1784. An ACT for the more speedy restoring the possession of certain messuages, lands and tenements, in Northumberland county, to the persons who lately held the same. SECT. I. Whereas several persons at or near Wyoming, in the county of Northumberland, were in the month of May last, vio- lently dispossessed of the Messuages, lands and tenements which they then occupied, and which are still detained from them by force; and the peculiar circumstances of these cases require, that the pos- session of the premises so forcibly entered and detained, should be without delay restored to the persons who occupied them as afore- said. SECT. II. Be it therefore enacted, and it is hereby enacted by the Representatives of the Freemen of the Commonwealth of Pennsyl- vania, in General Assembly met, and by the authority of the same, That it shall and may be lawful for the President and the Supreme Executive Council to direct the Justices of the Peace, in and for the county of Northumberland to proceed forthwith in executing the laws relating to forcible entries and detainers; and that their pro- ceedings therein, or the writ of restitution thereupon, or the effect thereof, in the cases before mentioned, shall not be in any manner whatever superceded, impeded or delayed by Writ of Certiorari, or other Writ issued by the Supreme Court, or any Judge thereof, or by any other Court whatever. SECT. III. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,
Page 658
658 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. That this act shall continue in force until the end of the next Ses- sion of the General Assembly, and no longer. Signed by order of the House, - GEORGE GRAY, Enacted into a Law at Philadelphia, Speaker. on Wednesday the fifteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four. PETER Z. LLOYD, Clerk of the General Assembly.* John ARMSTRONG TO PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. Easton, 14th September, 1784. Sir, Before your Excellency's last letter reached Wyoming, I had taken some measures for disposing such part of the Insurgents as remained in arms about the mouth of Tunkhannock creek, & tho’ my intentions were far from being fulfilled, yet I have every reason to believe that a discovery of them has not been without its effect, as they have since removed themselves much higher up the river. Col. Moore will have the honor to inform your Excellency of the steps which were taken to bring about this purpose. The fears which I expressed in a former letter to Council, (and which had grown entirely out of the Sheriff's conduct at Sunsbury) have been in some degree justified by the conduct of the people then released. They have in some instances taken up their arms and re- tired into the neibouring hills—in others, they have threatned the civil officers & refused to submit to the laws. But in no instance has any real violence been committed, excepting one—the offender in that case was brought to immediate justice. In this situation I left the settlement on Saturday last, & proposed to have returned immediately to Philada., but meeting Captain Boyd at this place, 1 have at least suspended my intentions for a day or two, & shall await the operation of some medicines which I have taken for the restoration of my health—when I shall be able to determine whether I can return to Wyoming or whether I am to prosecute my first intention of going on to the City. I have the honor to be, - With the highest possible respect, Your Excellency's & Council's Most obedient humb. servt., JOHN ARMSTRONG, JR. I have forwarded some depositions upon the affair of Locust ridget to the Chief Justice. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President. * Printed Laws, folio edition, p. 891, f See pages 628, 635, &c.
Page 659
PENNSYLVANLA ARCHIVES 1784. 659 DEPOSITION OF JAMES REED–WyoMING, 1784. Before me, John Seely, Esquire, one of the Justices for the peace in & for the County of Northumberland, appeared James Reed, Esqr., and being duly sworn, doth depose and say, that on Monday, the 20th Instant, when returning from the Fort to Mr. John Hol- lenbach's, & at some distance behind Major Boyd & John Oakley, Esqr., his attentions were call'd immediately to them by a Voice which commanded some one to pull off his hat, that he then dis- covered two men (who appeared to the Deponent to have stopped the gentlemen above-mentioned) in arms;–one of whom, holding a stick over Major Boyd, said—“You were one of the Commissioners “who pulled off your hats to us when we laid down our arms; now “I order you to pull off your hat to me.” Upon which he struck Major Boyd with his stick; the stroke seemed to be given with great violence. This was repeated, the deponent believes, three times, with much threatning language, among which was this expression— “Come into the woods along with me,”—to which Major Boyd re- Fliºd, “I shall not go with you; if you have any business with me, ‘come to my Quarters.” The Assailant then ask'd, “how long do “you intend to stay here?” Major Boyd's answer was, “as long “as my business calls me.” By this time the Deponent had ap- proach'd pretty near to them, when the two men in arms moved off along the road—& further this deponent saith not. JAMES REED. Sworn & Subscribed before me, at Wyoming, Sept’r 22nd, 1784. DEPOSITION OF John OKELY—WyoMING, 1784. Before me, John Seely, Esq’r, one of the Justices of the peace in and for the County of Northumberland, appear'd Mr. John Okeley, and duly affirming according to Law, doth say, that on Monday, the 20th Inst., in Company with Major Boyd & Col. Reed (the Latter being some distance behind) Returning from the fort to Mr. John Hollenback's, they were met by two armed men that came rushing out of a house on the opposite side of the street; the foremost, as the Deponent was informed, was Walterman Baldwin, bid Major Boyd & the Deponent stand; said, you are Major Boyd, an’t you, one of the Commissioners that Pull'd off your hat to us when we laid down our arms. Major Boyd said he was ; says Baldwin, pull off your hat for me now, upon which he struck Major Boyd with a stick three or four times with great Violence, and Much Threatning Language, telling Major Boyd to come into the woods with him, which Major Boyd refus'd, saying, if he had any Business with him
Page 660
660 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. he should come to his Quarters, (the Deponent Desired the assailant to Desist, & not abuse an unarm'd Gentleman, upon which he turn'd to the Deponent, & with a Threat bid him hold his tongue or)—the assailant asked Major Boyd how long he Intended to stay there; Major Boyd's answer was, as long as my Business calls me, and then the two armed men walked off—farther the Deponent saith not. J. OKELY. Affirmed and Subscribed before me, at Wyoming, Sept’r 22nd, 1784. f DEPOSITION OF Joseph KING, 1784. Before me, Henry Shoemaker, Esquire, one of the Justices of the Peace in and for the County of Northumberland, appeared Joseph King, of the Township of Shawana, who being duly sworn, doth depose & say, that on Sunday, the 19th Instant, while he & another man, with his wife, sat in his own house, he was fired upon from without by some persons then unseen; that going to the door to enquire into the cause of it, he was instantly surrounded by about a dozen of armed men, who began to beat this deponent with great violence; that breaking from them, he retired within the door of his house, and with the assistance of his wife endeavoured to keep the assailants out—that they shut & latch'd the door for this purpose, when the assailants broke it open & began again to beat this depo- nent with the butts of their guns, & otherwise much abuse him and his wife—that they then extorted a promise from him under pain of death, that he would not make any information against them, and that they then withdrew. This deponent further saith, that some of the persons thus assailing him he knew, viz.: John Swift, Elisha Sattalee, Walterman Baldwin, Phede Budd, & Phineas Stevens— that the others he did not know, & that he now remains under the utmost terror of his life. JOSEPH KING. Sworn & subscribed before me, this 22d day of September, 1784. HENRY SHOEMAKER. DEPoSITION of WILLIAM LANTARMAN, 1784. Appeared before me, John Seely, Esqr., one of the Justices in & for the County of Northumberland, William Lanterman, & being duly sworn doth depose & say, that on Monday, the 20th Instant, being in his father's corn field in the Township of Stoke, he there met Waterman Baldwin, who asked him where his father was—& told him that if he caught him taking any corn out of that field, he (Waterman Baldwin) would scalp him. This deponent then told
Page 661
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 661 him that he had come to get some corn, & added “you will not shoot me, will you?” upon which he replied that he would—The Deponent then told him that such conduct was contrary to law— when Baldwin answered that there was no law here—he had tried it long enough, & that Swift & he & thirty others had come down to take the corn by force & keep it. That he was armed with a rifle gun & two pistols. The deponent then left the field, & farther saith not. WILLIAM LANTARMAN. Sworn & subscribed before me at Wyoming, Sept. 22d, 1784. JNo. SEELY. DEPoSITION of HARMON BRINK, 1784. Before me, John Seely, Esqr., one of the Justices of the peace in and for the County of Northumberland, came Harmon Brink, & Being duly sworn doth depose & say, that on Monday, the 2d day of August last past, he, the said Deponent was in a house at a place call’d Locust Hill, in Northampton County, where Col. James Moore lay sick at that time, there were several others laying under the trees, and under the shade before the door, the Deponent heard two or three guns fired, and Immediately heard one Michael McCartley, (who was under the shade before the door) Call to the Deponent to come and carry him away, for he was wounded & was not able to get in the house, the Deponent went to help him in, and ask'd him how he came to be wounded, (not suspecting any Evil Minded Per- sons being round) as he spoke to the wounded man there was thirty or forty guns fired towards the house which the Deponent suppos'd to be chiefly at him, he then call'd to the rest that were round to make the best of their way into the house, after the People were got in the house one Jacob Everit, standing opposite a Window, was shot through the head & Died in a few Minutes, two others besides the first mentioned were wounded, after the Connecticut Claimants (which I afterwards found them to be) had Continued their firing on us about two hours, they Retreated back to Wyoming, farther the Deponent saith not. - HARMON BRINK. Wyoming, Sept. 22d, 1784. Sworn & subscribed before me at JNo. SEELY. DEPoSITION of OBADIAH WALKER, 1784. Appeared before me, John Seely, Esqr., one of the Justices of the peace in & for the County of Northumberland, Obadiah Walker,
End of Section 212. Continue to next section or 
Section 213
Page 662
662 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. who being duly sworn doth depose & say that on Tuesday, the 21st Instant, being at the house of Trux, in the Township of Shawaney, John Swift, Elisha Sattalee, Waterman Baldwin, & Phineas Stevens came into the aforesaid house, & after boasting of having beaten Major Boyd, one of the Commissioners, John Swift drew the wiper from the rifle with which he was arm’d, & taking the smaller part into his hand, struck this deponent about fifty times with the larger—with all his force, & then departed the house. Farther this deponent saith not. OBADIAH WALKER. Wyoming, the 22d Sept., 1784. Sworn & subscribed before me, at JNo. SEELY. DEPoSITION of NICODEMUs TRAVIs, 1784. Appeared before me, John Seely, Esqr., one of the Justices of the peace in & for the County of Northumberland, Nicodemos Travis, and being duly sworn doth depose and say that on Monday, the 20th Instant, being at his labor on Jacob's plains, Daniel Gore came up to him with three stones in one hand and a club in the other, declaring that he would sacrifice him if he did not leave the Oats which he had in his Waggon—proceeded to threaten him farther declared that he should have none of his Crops, & at length obliged the Deponent to unload & leave the Oats on the ground. The deponent says that he sowed these oats in peace, & farther saith that he is afraid his life will be taken should he return again to look after his property. his NICHODEMUS (N) TRAVIS. mark. Wyoming, Sept. 22d, 1784. Sworn & subscribed before me, at JNo. SEELY. QUESTION To THE MAGISTRACY, 1784. 22d September, 1784. Question to the Magistracy. Whether from the evidence before them it was their opinion that we could proceed in the execution of the trust committed to us, with security to our persons? & what security, if any, they could give us?
Page 663
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 663 ANswer of JUSTICEs of Wyoming, 1784. Gentlemen, We have considered the Question which you were pleased to put to us yesterday with all the attention of which we are capable, and now offer it as our joint opinion that you cannot proceed to the Ex- ecution of the Trust committed to you, with security to your persons or to the dignity of the State which is so Inseperably connected with it. We have also contemplated every means in our power to give you the protection you wish for, and can find it only in the interposition of an armed force. We are therefore induced to propose to your own consideration the Propriety of applying to this alternative, while we cannot in Justice to what we believe to be the sentiments of a very respecta- ble part of this Community, but declare that a force Werry adequate to your protection can be Immediately obtain'd. As Mr. Mead intimated that it would be inconvenient for him to meet us this Afternoon, we have thought proper to come to this separate report, that you may be early enabled to proceed to some resolutions upon it. We are however happy to add that Mr. Meads sentiments upon this subject have exactly corresponded with ours. We are Gentlemen with the greatest respect your most obed’t & very Humble Servants, JNO SEELY, HENRY SHOEMAKER. Wyoming, September 23d, 1784. Directed, To John Boyd, Esqr., John Armstrong, James Read, John Okely. ANswer of DAVID MEAD, 1784. Wyoming, Sept. 23d, 1784. Gentlemen, Agreeable to your request, I must inform, that at present from circumstances, I am induced to believe that you cannot Travil through the different settlements of this place with bodily saifty. In the mean time am with much Respect your Humble Serv't, DAVID MEAD. Commissioners of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsyl'a.
Page 664
664 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. CoMMIssionERs To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Wyoming, 24th September, 1784. Sir, The papers enclosed will explain to your Excellency and Council the interruptions we have met in executing the trust reposed in us. The spirit of violence which presented itself upon our arrival at this place & the daring outrage upon the person of Major Boyd, which immediately followed, were so alarming in themselves and connected with so many exaggerating circumstances as to produce the inclosed application to the Magistracy (mark'd No. 7) their reply (No. 8)* while it confirmed our apprehensions of farther violence left us how- ever a good deal embarras'd, & has made this communication im- mediately necessary. Your Excellency will observe that while they give us assurances that “a force adequate to our protection may be immediately obtained” they leave it to “our own determination whether an application to this alternative be necessary or expedient. Upon this point we have some doubts; which have grown out of a belief that a step of this kind in us would induce to hostilities & precipitate this unfortunate country again into blood shed. We therefore commit ourselves in this instance to the wisdom of council & hope from that for such a decision as will best promote the inten- tions of Government & the interest of the public. As we feel ourselves oblig'd to offer matters of opinion as well as fact to your Honorable board we cannot suppress our apprehensions that the grain now on the ground will begin some immediate violence. It has already been the subject of dispute, and we have been press'd by some of the Connecticut claimants, to an immediate decision upon it, as the great point upon which the peace of this country de- pended. We have been told that unless this decision was in their favor, an appeal to arms would be the consequence. We are here lead to one observation which cannot but make Council as unhappy as the cause of it has made us, viz., that the lenity of government so explicitly shown by their late laws & resolutions in favor of this description of people, do not seem to have yet had all the effect upon their disposition, which was to have been expected from it, while on the other hand we cannot but declare our happiness in finding the Pennsylvania claimants, in every instance which has fallen under our observations, accommodating themselves to the acknowledged princi- ples of order and good government. We are sir, with the highest respect your Excellency's most obedient & very humble Servants,t JNO BOYD, JOHN ARMSTRONG. JAMES READ, J. OKELY. * Preceding page. f See page 361.
Page 665
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 665 P. S. From motives of a very obvious policy we have yet de- clined giving any opinion respecting the grain. The bearer is an intelligent & very confidential person. Directal, To His Excellency John Dickinson, Esq. Indorsed, Read in Council 28th of Sept’r, 1784. DEPOSITIONs. Northampton County, ss : On the 24th day of September, Anno 1784, before me, Peter Rhoads, one of the Justices of the Peace in & for the County of Northampton, Personally Appeared Frederick Barthold, of the town of Easton, and (being duly sworn on the Holy Evangelists of Al- mighty God). Doth Depose and say, That he was an assistant to Peter Ealer, Goal Keeper at the town of Easton, in & for the County of Northampton, and that on the 17th of this Instant, at about 4 o'clock, as he was going up stairs in order to let some of the Prison- ers that were in Confinement there from Wioming, Down to Get some water, & to Carrie Down the necessary Pocket, and when they were out of one Door he Did shut it again and oppened an other Door for the same Purpose, and as soon as he had oppened the other Door, one Edward Inman seized him, the Deponent, by the neck and forced the whole bundle of Keys, consisting of six or seven Keys, out of his hands, and Knocked him down with it so that he faint'd, and by the time he recovered, the Prisoners from Wioming, Twenty-five in number, were all out of the Two Rooms. FREDERICK BARTHOLD. Sworn & subscribed before me, the day & year abovesaid. PETER REIOADS. Northampton County, ss: On the 24th day of September, 1784, before me, Peter Rhoads, one of the Justices of the Peace in & for said County of Northamp- ton, Personally Appeared Peter Ealer, the Goal Keeper of Easton, in & for the County of Northampton, and (being duly sworn on..the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God) Doth Depose and say, that on the 17th Instant, at about four o'clock in the afternoon, he ordered his assistant, Frederick Barthold, up stairs in the Prison where the Prisoners from Wioming were Confined, to Let out of each Room (they were in two rooms) Two Prisoners, as there were two hand Cuffed together, in order to fetch water and Carry Down the Neces- * See page 475.
Page 666
666 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. sary Sup as usual, and Going up throu’ an Iron Gate, and after the same was shut again, he heard him, the said Assistant, say, that the Bread which was to be Brought up at the same time ought or might be got Redy, to be Carried up when those Prisoners were to be Put up again that were to be Let Down, and him & his wife were geting the Bread to Carry it throu’ the Iron Gate, that when they (the Deponent & his wife) oppened the Gate, the Gate was seized by some of the Wioming Prisoners, who were hid at the same time in a Crook Leading to the stairs going up; and that he Endeavoured to shut the Gate again, but was over Powered, and Squiesed & Kicket very much ; seeing that, he Called to his wife to shut the front Door, and as the Key was not in the Lock, she could not shut it fast anough; he then Called to her to Allarm the Neighbours, as he saw he would be over Powered, and ran to the front Door himself in order to Lock the same, and was over Powered again, and bruised very much, so that he feels very unwell yet, and all the Prisoners from Wioming, Twenty-five in number, Ran out, and that he Pur- sued them & Apprehended one. Further he says not. PETER EALER. Sworn & subscribed before me, the 24th Septem’r, 1784. PETER REIOADs. Northampton County, ss: On the 24th day of September, 1784, before me, Peter Rhoads, one of the Justices in & for the County of Northampton, Personally appeared Conrad Ihri, in the Town of Easton, and (being Duly sworn on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God) Doth Depose and say, That on fryday, the 17th Day of this Instant, Sept’r, at about 4 o'clock, Mrs. Ealer, the wife of Peter Ealer, Came Running to his house—Living oposide the Prison, and Called for Assistants, the Prisoners were Breaking out of Prison; that when he Came to his Door he saw that the Prisoners from Wioming Pushed Peter Ealer, the Goal Keeper, out of the front Door, and saw one of the Prison- ers having a Large Key in his hand, he, the Deponant, ran at him to seize him, and when he Came near him, the Prisoner stroke at him, and he avoiding the Blow, the Prisoner Escaped, and they the Prisoners went all off through an alley. Further he says not. the Mark of CONRAD [CI] IHRIE. Sworn & subscribed before me, the Day & year above said, PETER RHoADs.
Page 667
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 667 Northampton County, ss : On the 24th day of September, 1784, before me, Peter Rhoads, one of the Justices of the Peace in & for the County of Northamp- ton, Personally Appeared William Rough, of the Town of Easton, and (being Duly sworn on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God) Doth Depose & say, That, on fryday, the 17th Instant, at about 4 o'clock, as he was at the House of John Spangenberg, opposid the Prison in Easton, the wife of John Spangenberg being on the street, Cried out, and saw Conrad Ihrie Run out of his house towards the Prison; that he, the Deponant, Ran after him, and saw Peter Ealer, the Goal Keeper, standing in the front door of the Prison to Resist the Prisoners from Wioming from breaking out of Goal, but before he, the Deponant, Could Come to the Goal Keeper's Assistance, the Prisoners forced out, and that he was about Apprehending one of the Prisoners who had a Large Key in his hand, where with he offered to strike him, which he, in order to save his life, avoided the stroke. In the Mean time Prisoners from Wieming Got all out, & went off through an alley, and he, the Deponant, Ran after them, and allarmed the Inhabitants and Called them to Arms; that it was a Rainy Day, Did not Come timely to Assistance—further he says Inot. WILLIAM ROUGE. Sworn & subscribed before me, the Day & Year above said. PETER REIOADS. Before me, Henry Shoemaker, Esq’r, one of the Justices of the Peace in and for the County of Northumberland, appeared John Stickafoos, and being duly sworn according to Law, doth say, that on the second Day of August Last, he was at a place known by the name of Locust Hill, in the County of Northampton, in Company with several People; that in the forenoon of said Day, the Depo- nent was asleep under the shade of a Tree, and was alarmed with a fireing of Musquetry, upon which he fled to a small Log Cabbin, which was near; that the Persons who fired killed a Certain Jacob Everel, by shooting him through the Head, and wounded three others, (viz.) Michael McCorcle, John Shuboy, & David Moris; that the Persons so surrounding, Continued to fire one Hour and a half or Longer; that he supposed they Consisted of Twenty or thirty men, some of which he knew, (viz.) Jonathan Burwell & William Slocum; that he has good reason to believe that said Burwell & Slokem, with their associates, who perpetrated this unprovocked
Page 668
668 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Murder, were all of the Party Called the Connecticut Claimants, at Wyoming—further the Deponent sayeth not. his JOHN 4 STICKAFOOS. mark. Sworn and Subscribed before me, at Wyoming, Sept'r 24th, 1784. HENRY SHOEMAKER. Before me, John Seely, Esqr., one of the Justices in and for the County of Northumberland, appeared William Sims, & being duly sworn, doth depose & say, that being at the Black-smith shop of David Fowler of Shawney Township, on the 23d Instant, he there met Waterman Baldwin & Phenias Stevens, who enquired whether there was any party after them—he replied, not that he knew off— they then ask'd whether if a party came after them, they would fire upon them. The Deponent replied he did not think they would,— to which Baldwin answered, that tho' they (the party) should not, he would fire upon them, for it was his determination not to be taken alive, that if it had not rained that morning, they would have pulled Lanterman's corn—had Twenty or Thirty men for that purpose, & as many others to support them. The Deponent advised him not, & recommended a submission to the laws—To which he said, “We will be damn'd if we submit to the laws of this State or any other, but live independant—the Corn we will have, & the ground too—then you will see the Vermonters turn out—this Country has always been in dispute, the strongest party has ever kept it, & we will now keep it.” The Deponent further saith, that Baldwin & Stevens added—We would not have flogg'd Boyd, had he not been a damn'd Rascal—that what he had received was but a beginning—that wherever they met him they would beat him, & let him know that before he left this Country—that as for Col. Armstrong, if ever they catch'd him, they might leave the life in him but that would be all. They added, that they had not a far- thing of interest here, but that they had been hired at the rate of three half joes a man by the Connecticut claimants to fight here, & that in addition to this, they were to divide the lands among those that did fight—that if it were not for 10 or 12 persons among them, the Pennsylvanians might live in peace and without any dis- turbance, & have the Country to themselves, and that they now were here by the advice and persuasion of Franklin, Johnstone, Peirce and others, and that otherwise they should have left this long ago—and farther this Deponent saith not. WM. SIMS. Sworn and subscribed before me, this 24th day of Septem., 1784. JNo. SEELY.
Page 669
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 669 John ARMSTRONG. To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. . . . . • *. , t *1 = 24 Sept., 1784, Wyoming. Sir, * The packet to your Excellency was closed before Mr. Sim's depo- sition was made. The Commissioners have, however, thought pro- per to forward it. As we did not wish to multiply reading of this sort, we have sup- press'd much testimony to the same effect. Your Excellency and Council will be pleased to accept my most respectful compliments, and believe me to be with much sincerity, Your most obedient & Very humble servant, JOHN ARMSTRONG, JR. - - Directed, His Excellency, President Dickinson. By Mr. Sims. ADVERTISEMENT OF COMMISSIONERS OF Wyoming, 1784. Whereas the Hon’ble the Supreme Executive Council have by their resolution of the 9th Instant, appointed us, the subscribers to carry into effect a resolution of the General Assembly taken on the 7th of the same Month for the following purposes, viz., -- “1st, To obtain the most exact knowledge they can get of the names of the Widows & Children of such persons as were lately, settled at or near Wyoming, and have fallen fighting against the Savages.” - “2dly, Of all such others as did actually reside on the Lands at or near Wyoming when the late Decree was given at Trenton, 30th Dec’r, 1782.” “3dly, Of the Widows & Children of such of them as have since died.” “4thly, Of the quantity of Land possessed by each of the persons. before described at the time of his Death, or of the said Decree respectively.” “5thly, Of the Improvements on each of the said parcels of Land.” “6thly, Of the nature of the Claim on which the possessions of each parcel as aforesaid was founded.” ... “7thly, Of the Evidences in support of such Claim.” “8thly, Of what parts of such Lands are claimed under Penn- sylvania, &c.” “9thly, By whom.” We do therefore give this public notice to all concerned that on Wol. X.-29
Page 670
670 PENNSYLVANIA. ARCHIVES 1784. . next we will begin to receive all such Information upon the i. ing Subjects (excepting the 5th article,) as may laid fore us, and for this purpose we have thought it proper to direct that the Inhabitants of the Township of Stoke will attend on Monday, Tuesday & Wednesday next, and the Inhabitants of Shawana Township on Thursday, Friday & Saturday following at the House of John Hollenback in the Township of Stoke. Given at Wyoming this 25th day of September, 1784. JNO. BOYD. JOHN ARMSTRONG, JR, JAMES READ, JOHN OKELY. INHABITANTs of Wyoming To CoMMIss'Rs READ AND OKELY, 1784. Wyoming, Sept. 25th, 1784. Gentlemen, We can't but observe the good Intention of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania in behalf of the Connecticut Claimants, in the late Resolve of that Honorable House; which reflects much Honor upon them, and will terminate much in Favor of the Connecticut Claimants: And also the Resolve of the General Assembly, au- thorising the President, and Council to appoint Commissioners, to repair to Wyoming, in order to ascertain the Names of those brave men who fought, bled and expir'd in the glorious Cause of liberty and Property. And what Quantity of Lands they occupied, and posses'd; and also the Names of the Widdows and Fatherless Children; that the General Assembly might be in a Capacity to make a just Discri- mination, and extend their Humanity and Commiseration to those Persons who had been the greatest Sufferers, by the Depridations of the Savages: And also the names of those who liv'd here at the Decree at Trenton, the Quantity of Lands they possessed at that Time, their Title, &c.—The above Resolves we can't but take the greatest Notice of, and assure you Gentlemen, that our Hearts glow with Gratitude, and high Esteem for that Honourable House; yet at the same Time let us tell you, that we are sorry to say, that we have just Reason to suspect that two of the Commissioners, are so prejudiced against the Connecticut Claimants that its impossible for them to do Justice, and therefore very unfit persons to act in that Capacity. The Gentlemen whom we refer to are Lt. Colo. John Armstrong and John Boyd, Esq’r, who have once deceived us by forfiting their word and Honour; especially Colo. John Armstrong; and now appears to be replete with Prejudice, and we may say Malice against us: for when the civil Question was asked Esº'r Boyd, is Colo.
Page 671
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. 671 Armstrong one of the Commissioners, the said Colo. spoke & said es I am, and I will make you know it too. Now Gentlemen, we leave you to judge, whether a man, who is capable of giving such an answer to Gentlemen, and at the same Time show’d such Prejudice is fit for a Commissioner. We have reason to believe that no justice can come from Men, who have such Prepossessions, and Prejudices, against us, as those Gentle- men appear to have; together with the Ill Treatment, the Con- necticut Claimants have already received from the above mentioned Gentlemen. Therefore, we the Subscribers do most solemnly and in the name of every thing that is sacred and dear to us as Christians throw in our Protestations against John Boyd, Esq’r, and Lt. Colo. John Armstong, acting in the Capacity of Commissioners, especially the latter. We are Gentlemen with suitable Respects your most obed’t and most humle, servants, Ebenr. Johnson, John Franklin, Phinehas Peirce, Ritchard Brockway, . Jonah Woodworth, Samuel Gore, º Samuel Tubbs, Andw. Blanhard, Fra. Stevens, Jabez Winshipp, Reuben Cook, Darius Rarke, Ralph Compter, Barney Hayney, John O'Neil, John Cary, Wm. Bucks, Elijah Buck, Jas. Gaylord. º Ambrose Gaylord, Stephen Gardiner, Abel Peirce, John Dorrance, . Daniel Peirce, Eldad. Kellogg, Elias Church, t Noah Petibone, * Saml. Ransom, - Directed,—The Honorable James Read and John Oakl . Nathl. Cook, Edisha Harvey, Maros. Calbey, Samuel Ayres, Jeremiah Colman, Phinehas Nash, James Bidlack, Josiah Rogers, Hezekiah Robarts, . Thos. Park, Benj. Cole, Josh. Bennet, Jonathan Center, James Nisbitt, Timothy Hopkins, Frederick Eveland, Samuel Hallett, James Cole, Abraham Harding, . Barnabas Cary, John Scoot, . Wm. Williams, Joseph Leonard, David Michel, Henry Herding, . Joseph Thomas, Samuel Miller, * William Miller, , John Budd, Fred. Budd, Amos Egleston, • James Brown, James Brown, Jun'r, • David Sanford, Jont. Davis, James Benedick, Solomon Finch, Thomas Heath, Wm. Jackways, Jonth. Cory, Aaron Perkins, Abraham Westbrook, John Staples, Daniel Gore, Leonard Westbrook, Daniel Holly, - Eph. Lewis, Richard Westbrook, James Westbrook, John Rose Krons, Thomas Neill, John Wight, Wm. Hooker Smith, Elisha Drake, Ishmael Bennet, Rich'd Inman. y, Commis- sioners, Present.* * Some of these names are very badly written, and may therefore not be altogether correct.
Page 672
672, . PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. John FRANKLIN, &c., To PREs. DICKINsoN, 1784. His Excellency the President, and the Supreme Executive Council of the Common Wealth of the State of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, - We are truly sorry that the good. Intentions of the Hon'ble the General Assembly of this State in a late Resolve, Relative to the Reinvestment of the People call'd the Connecticut Claimants, is in all Probability like to prove inaffectual, and to no purpose, and also that the Gentlemen Commissioners who were sent here to investi- gate matters, and Reconcile the unhappy Animosities which sub- isted between the New England and Pennsylvanian Parties, were conducted in the manner they were; And we likewise lament that your Hon’ble Body were so unfortunate as to appoint John Boyd Esqr. and Lt. Colo. John Armstrong Commissioners, who have antecedent to this appointment been here and used the People call’d the Connecticut Claimants, in the most shameful and abusive, manner possible, they Punished the Innocent and let the guilty go with Impunity; Partiality marked their Westiges and crown'd their proceedings; every Impartial Spectator Exclaimed against their Cruel and unjust Treatment towards the New England settlers, even those who were so unhappy as to accompany those two Gentle- men to the Banks of Susquehannah. And the world even upon a bare relation of their conduct stand Agash'd, and Thunderstruck.-- But Gentlemen we would not wish to dwell long upon this first irregular step of their Proceedings, which they Call a Conquest, and boast of their Generalship that they have out General'd the Yankeys, &c., but to come to facts more recent which happened at the time of their acting in the Hon’ble sphere of Commissioners at this Place. The Second Day after the arrival of the Commissioners they Desired some of our People to meet them at Mr. John Holon- back's Innkeeper; accordingly a number of the People É. the Connecticut Claimants,) waited upon them to know their Intentions, and the business and Import of their Mission; and when we met these Gentlemen, we knew not who or how many of them were Commissioners, and the Question was asked Esqr. Boyd whether Colo. Armstrong was one of the Commissioners, the said Colo. never waited for Esqr. Boyd to give the Solution to the Question ask'd, but spoke in a very haughty and Insulting manner and said, es I am, and I will make you know it too; The Commissioners ikewise informed us that their Business was entirely with the Connecticut Claimants, And that they had none with Patterson or any of his adherents; yet nothwithstanding appeared to do all their Business for several Days with that Enemy of all good; which so Exaperated the Connecticut People (so call'd) that they desired a Remonstrance might be drew against John Boyd Esq’r, and Colo. John Armstrong, acting in the Capacity of Commissioners; for -* * * *
Page 673
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 678 they were persuaded that no justice could Possibly be administered by men who were apparently replete with Prepossessions and Pre- judices against those with whom they Pretended to have to treat with; accordingly a Remonstrance was drew up against those two Commissioners, and signed by upwards of Eighty Respectable men in the Settlement, but the Gentlemen Commissioners had absconded before we had time to Convey the same to James Read, and John Oakly, Esqrs., to whom the Remonstrance was directed. Tho' antecently to their Departure, Patterson and Colo. Arm- strong as it is believed, made a false alarm and had a party of their own men in the night of the 28th Inst. to attack the Garrison, and several of the Neighbouring houses in a most violent manner, firing into the Rooms of the houses where People were lying in bed, and alarmed the whole Settlement, and then most Feloniously said the Yankeys attempted to take the Fort by storm, and that they had done all that mischief to the Inhabitants, which so Intimidated the Commissioners that they look’d upon it Dangerous for them to tarry any longer in the Settlement. This Insurrection of their own Party was done to frustrate the good Intention of Government, and excite the Connecticut People to repair to arms in Defence of their lives and Property. This to- gether with the insults and abuses that the Connecticut party are Daily receiving by being confined in the Garrison by Patterson and his party, without Law or Justice, and knowing the Garrison to be a harbour and place of Rendezvous for those Tories worse than Savages who have sacrificed hundreds of our Inhabitants during the late unhappy war, and now frequently repairing to the Garrison from Niagara, and elsewhere, and there Protected and harbour’d by that most ungodly Patterson and his party; so Exasperated some of the Connecticut party that in the night of the 27th inst., a small number of about fifteen only of those who had been drove to almost Desparation, and falsely accused of making the alarm the night before; attack'd the Fort in good Earnest not out of any Design against Government or the Laws of this State, but in support of the same, and in order to relieve one of the Connecticut party who had the Day before been Confined in a guard house in the Garrison, by Patterson and his Officers without the Colour of Law, when the attack was made they told the People in the Garrison next time to make a false alarm and then to lay it to the Yankees—having Previous to the attack made a Demand of the Prisoners as well as of a number of Rifles and other fire arms which had been foreible taken from them by Patterson and his Party and still Detain'd or otherwise a surrender of the Garrison. If they had Ransack'd the Regions of Darkness and Consulted all the Infernal Powers of Hell, they could not fram’d a greater false- hood than the laying the first alarm to the Connecticut party; but Patterson and his associates are so fastie and Prolific in the lying
Page 674
674 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES : 1784. way that they would Deceive the very Elect if it were Possible, and overturn and subvert the Foundation of Government. We do most solemnly and in the Name of the Great Jehovah, who is the searcher of hearts, say, that the Connecticut Party (as we are called,) had no hand in the first alarm and knew nothing of the affair, Directly or Indirectly, and that we stand ready to prove our Innocency, end show to the Impartial World the abuses, and Insults we have received from Patterson and those call'd the Penn- sylvanian Party, the Injustice, Rapine, Plunder and murder, to- gether with every species of Cruelty, &c. The report is that the Commissioners said their mission was to find out the objects of Charity, and then make them Liberal Donations. It is Protection and the Benefits of Law we have been long asking for. The Restoration of our Property and our just Rights, is what we have been Pleading for. It is our most invaluable Pri- viledges we are Contending for, and not for Charitable Donations. Our Petitions, Remonstrances, and addresses have been Repeated to your Hon’ble Body, and the House of Assembly, untill our Patience is worn out, and no Relief is granted us. We have ask'd for Justice and we Declare to God who knows our hearts, that Justice is all we wish for. Our Prayers and Intreaties appear finally to be Rejected and Contemn’d—And we have Reason to believe that there is no good Designed for us from this State. Wishing your Hon’ble Body to be under the Guidance and Bene- diction of Almighty God, we say Amen. JOHN FRANKLIN, EBENEZER JOHNSON, PHINEHAS PIERCE. Wyoming, Oct. 5th, 1784. N. B.-The Remonstrance which was Designed for the Com missioners, we send Inclosed. DEPosition of CAPT. SHOEMAKER, &c., 1784. Before me, John Seely, Esq., one of the Justices of the Peace in & for the County of Northumberland, appeared Henry Shoemaker, Esqr., and being duly sworn doth Depose & say, that about 2 O'Clock in the Morning on Tuesday, the 28th Inst., came to the house where the fort was, a Number of People known by the Name of the Con- hecticut Claimants, & after giving a Number of Indian Yells, they, the s'd Enemyes, began a Very heavy fire on the house with Rifles and Musquetry. (the Deponent & the Other Gentlemen were in bed) Mr. Samuel Read, as he was Rising in his bed, Received a Mortal wound through the Back & in the guts. Mr. Andrew Henderson, striving to º another house, was wounded in five Different places, one of which is in the Breast, suppos'd to be Mortal. The Enemy,
Page 675
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 675 During the fire, made several attempts to fire the Dwelling house & burn up (alive) all that was in it; they Continued firing about two hours, Broke open the Publick Store house, carried off some Arms and a Quantity of Ammunition; farther the Deponent saith not. HENRY SHOEMAKER. Sworn & subscribed before me at Wyoming, 28th Septr., 1784. JN'O SEELY. At Same Time appeared Alex'r Patterson, and Being Duly Sworn Declares that the Within Deposition is Just and True. - ALEX’R PATTERSON. Sworn before me. JNO. SEELY. - At the Same time appeared Doctor Francis Smith, and being duly Sworn declares that the within deposition is just and true. JNO. SEELY. FRANCIS SMITH. ALEX. PATTERSON TO Col. John ARMSTRONG, 1784. Si Wyoming, Sept'r 28th, 1784. lf, Eleven hours after you Left this place We were Surrounded by the Connecticut Band. They kept up a hot and Incessant fire for the Space of Two hours; you know that our House is not proof against Shot; poor Lieuts Reed &;Henderson are boath Mortally Wounded, Mr. Reed is Shot from the Back and into the Guts; Henderson is Shot in five places, one of which is in his Breast; that is the Dan- gerous one. Capt. Shoemaker and Henderson attempted to gain the Blockhouse; poor Henderson fell at the Door; Capt. Shoemaker Gained the Blockhouse to whose Exertions we owe our Lives who remain. The Enemy put a burning Toarch to our House, which struck me with the utmost Horror. I stript myself naked and went out at the window and Pushed the fire off with my Gun. Soon after, Capt. Shoemaker, as we Suppose, Killed or Mortally wounded one of the Willians; we heard his Groans. This morning Discovered Much Blood and found his Rifle.—From the Time you left us we had only Time to remove the Arms and ammunition into Shrawder's Room, where they are safe. The Justices, with myself, purpose calling in the Country and will Endeavor to Make a stand untill we hear from Government, which I pray God may be soon. There is no Doubt but that Johnson, Franklin and Perce were among the Murderers.
This page contains an image.
Page 676
676 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Oh! for Pitty's sake stimulate Government to Grant us Imediate and Effectual relief; it is not Possible to Describe my Mortification for my Two Brave, Gentlemanly Bosom friends. I have no more Time. Adieu. I am, Sir, with Much Esteem, Your Most Obedt. Serv't, ALEX’R PATTERSON. The Inclosed Depositions you will herewith receive. Directed, Lient. Colonel John Armstrong, Philadelphia. CoMMISSIONERs To PREs. DICKINson, 1784. Philad'a, 1st October, 1784. Sir - we beg leave to take up the report of our proceedings under the late appointment of Council, where our letter of the 25th left it. The disposition to violence discovered by the Connecticut Claim- ants, while it gives us room to apprehend an immediate outrage of the public peace, could not entirely suspend our endeavors to execute the intentions of Government; & tho' we regretted that want of confidence which the resolutions of the Assembly supposed, & which, at first view, we considered as inseperable from the service we were instructed to perform, yet we could not feel ourselves justified in omitting anything which but tended to remove such ill-founded prejudice & reconcile the minds of this deluded people to the admis- sion of a service so evidently calculated to promote their exclusive interest. To effect this desirable purpose, the first step which presented itself to us as necessary or proper, was the promulgation of the objects for which we came—this was made in a manner which of all others we flattered ourselves would most contribute to a cheer- ful reception of it: It was put into the hands of one of their very confidential men, who engaged to second it with all his professional as well as personal influence—This was the Reverend Johnston. With these dispositions, and in this manner, did we enter upon the discharge of our trust, when a very serious interruption was iven to our farther proceedings. About 12 O'Clock at night, on unday the 26th Instant, a party of the Connecticut Claimants, whose number is yet undetermined, attempted to break open the store-house in which the public & other Arms were deposited. It is probable that their Original design upon this occasion went no farther, and that if they had been able to succeeed in the robbery, no other excess would have immediately followed,—but having been early discovered from a neighbouring house (the Quarters of Col.
End of Section 213. Continue to next section or 
Section 214
Page 677
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 677 Armstrong) & meeting with some opposition from thence, they soon turned their arms thither & exchanged several shot with that Gen- tleman & three or four others who were with him. Retiring, how- ever, from this resistance, they carried their attack to the house of Mr. John Hollebach, where the remaining part of Us lodged, & after discharging several guns upon it (from the effects of which Messieurs Boyd & Oakley very narrowly escap'd) they then withdrew into the bushes & disappeared. We now saw an end to our business with the utmost regret, & that it was improper for us to remain longer in a Country where every moment threatened us with the dangers of assassination. Under the influence of this Opinion, we called upon the Magistrates & some other principal Pennsylvania Claimants, & left with them a paper of acknowledgements for the support which they had in every instance discovered an inclination to give us—of advice,—to keep themselves in as defensable a state as possible, & of assurance that as we believed the late attack upon us to be intro- ductory to farther mischief, we would exert every nerve in our power to bring Government into some decisive measures for their relief. Under these assurances we left them about 8 O'Clock, on Monday the 27th Instant. The events which have since happened, & which have been brought forward by Express, are truly lamentable, & serve to confirm the opinions we have already express'd of the intended violence of the Connecticut Claimants, & the distress & suffering which we are afraid the better subjects of the State are fated to un- dergo. Captain Patterson's letter of the 28th & the deposition of Capt. Shoemaker of the same date, are submitted as a part of this report. R. beg leave to close this representation by offering to Council the result of our enquiries into the character of the people called Connecticut Claimants. With very few exceptions, they appear to be a Banditti, who, having fled from the Operation of other laws, are very unwilling to submit to the restraint of ours, & who are without any well-founded pretensions to either property or reputation We are, Sir, with all possible respect, Your Excellency's & Council's Most Obedient hum. servants, JNO. BOYD, JOHN ARMSTRONG, jun., JAMES READ, J. OKELY. His Excellency President Dickinson. No. 2. GEN'I. J. ARMSTRONG To John SEELY, 1784. Sir, - I have no other objection in wishing you to come to an interview with John Franklin, but that you may have an opportunity of 29*
Page 678
678 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. learning from himself why so many of the Connecticut claimants have thus wantonly run into an armed opposition to the laws of the state? Why they have committed so many depredations upon the peace- able and unoffending; & whether they yet continue even to profess an allegiance to this Commonwealth’. If to the last question he should answer in the affirmative, you will then explain what that allegiance requires, and what it forbids? The necessity there is for immediately laying down his arms and submitting himself and his followers to the operation of justice and the penalty should he neglect or refuse to comply. I am, Sir, your , most obd’t servt., J. ARMSTRONG, jun'r Sec'y. Draw from him an acknowlegement that he has seen the procla- mation,” and knows the penalty incurred by abetting, comforting and associating with the Culpraits mentioned therein. It may be well enough to repeat that he has already heard what you know to have been the intention of Government in sendiug the Letter. Copy. Indorsed, October —, 1784. Directed, John Seely, Esquire. No. 3. John SEELY To J. ARMSTRONG, 1784. Copy. Mr. Seely came to an interview with John Franklin and reports: that he y' said Franklin made y' following answers to the preceding questions. To the 1st he replied “for his own safety.” To the 23 he made no other answer but that “it was against his inclination yº “any outrage upon person's property should be committed.” And to y” last he answered in the affirmative. When Mr. Seely asked how he could reconcile to these profes- sions—his carrying arms and fitting himself in opposition to the laws, he replied, " { his own defence made it necessary.” Mr. Seely then declared his conduct to be contrary to the law & pointed out the necessity of their immediately dispersing, to y he made no other reply as to himself, but that if he should, he was apprehen- * See Col. Rec., XIV., p. 22.
End of Section 214. Continue to next section or 
Section 215
Page 679
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 679 : : : sive of abuse, adding “what would then become of the people men- “tioned in the Proclamation for whom rewards were offered?” In the course of conversation Franklin acknowledged that he had sent a state of facts to the Government of Connecticut, and the Susquehanna Comy. and expected support from them. The conversation between Mr. Franklin and myself as narrated above in the hand writing of General Armstrong is as litterally true as I can remember. Signed, JOHN SEELY. MEssRs. Johnston AND BALDw1N To BENJAMIN LUCE, 1784. Copy. Lackawany, Oct. 8th, 1784. Sir, We understand that you are obstinate and treat the Yankees very ill; therefore this is to warn you in the name of the Connecticut Claim. ants to depart and leave the house of Mr. Richard Hollsted, in 12 hours in peace or expect trouble. If we are obliged to send a party of men to do the business you must abide the consequences. Signed, EBENEZER JOHNSTON. WATERMAN BALDWIN. t Directed, Mr. Ben'j Luce. LT. FRANCIS MURRAY. To BRIGADIER GEN. ARMSTRONG, 1784. Bishop's Tavern, October 10th, 1784. 9 O'Clock, P. M. Sir, I am sorry to be under the disagreeable necessity of informing you that I have in the first instance failed in being able to furnish you with men agreeable to my orders of the 1st instant, Received of the Supreme Executive Council. I issued orders to Col. John Keller, Commanding the 1st Battalion of Bucks County Militia, to have four Companies of his Battalion paraded at Bishops Tavern, Viz.: Capt. Skinners, Frieces, Bishops and Kechlines, (they being the companies of said Battalion nearest to said Bishops,) at nine o'clock this morning with their arms accoutrement and ready to march from said place on a tour of Duty, intending when the men ordered here, if there was more men than the exigency required to take as many more out of the classes that stood next for duty as would answer the purpose except there appeared to be a sufficient number willing to turn out as volunteers, which Latter I had some expecta-
Page 680
680 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES -1784. tion of But when the companies arrived, I found it dangerous for any man to say he was willing to turn out Either in his own company or as a Volunteer, that any man that did so was in danger of being beat by the others.. I then gave orders to the different captains before mentioned, to call forth and parade as many men as I then named to them out of the fifth and sixth classes of their companies as amounted to the number wanted. The captains obeyed the orders so far as they were able, called for the persons by name but was not able to parade one man. Finding it was impossible to get men to-day and numbers of them complaining that the time was too short, and having some rea- son to believe that some of them would turn out if allowed a little time to prepare, I gave a further order to the captains aforesaid to have the men that were now called upon paraded on Thursday next, at nine o'clock in the morning, ready to march on a Tour of Duty from the parade. I was chiefly induced to adopt this second order, as I knew I would not be able out of the number called to get as many men at an Earlier period as would be worth a marching, and as I found I would be under the necessity of calling on the Colonel for a supply of men from the other four companies, any further attempts to get men out of these four companies already called, I looked upon to be useless. I have now issued orders to Colonel Skeller, directing him to draw forth the sixth class out of the re- maining companies of his Battalion and have them paraded at the same time and place that I have directed the others before mention- ed, to parade ready to march from said place on a Tour of duty. You may depend, sir, I shall use every exertion in my power to march the men on Thursday next; but at the same time I am sorry to be under the necessity of informing you from what I have already Experienced, that I have but small expectation of effecting it, chiefly owing to wrong ideas, that the more leading part of the people have formed of the expedition. For further particulars, I refer you to the Bearer, Captain Friece. I am, with the greatest respect and Esteem your * - obedientt humble Servt., t FRANCIS MURRAY, L. B. C. Directed, Public Service, Brigadeer Gen. John Armstrong.
Page 681
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 681 MEMORIAL or John FRANKLIN, &c.; To Assembly of Con- NECTICUT, 1784. To the Honourable General Assembly now siting at New Haven. The Memorial of John Franklin, Ebenezer Johnston and Phineas Pierce all of Wyoming in behalf of themselves, and other Inhabi- tants, Settlers and Claimers of the Lands situate on the Waters of the River Susquehanah under Confidence in the Title of the State of Connecticut, -humbly sheweth That the Memorialists before the commencement of the late War purchased of the aborigines, Owners and Claimers of the aforesaid Teritory of Country the Lands lying and being in the forty first Degree of Northern Latitude, and situate upon the Waters of the said River Susquehanah for great and valuable considerations which purchase has since been duly confirmed by this Honbl. Assembly. That by the Countenance, and approbation of this State your memorialists (braving every danger) settled themselves upon the Lands aforesaid, improved and cultivated the same, erected Houses Mills, and other necessary Buildings for their accommodation and Convenience, and were incorporated as a distinct County under this State, which priviledges, they enjoyed for several years, during which Time their numbers increased to five Thousand souls and the Militia to Eleven Hundred men capable of bearing Arms. That in the begining of the late War the Memorialists were fully in the Measures of this, and the other States, and furnished nearly three full Companies of Men for the Army of the United States. That in the year 1778 their Country was invaded by the Savages, aided by a party of Tories in the pay, and service of the King of Great Britain, and in a set Battle with them two Hundred and three of their best Warriors fell in the Field and were sacrificed by an exulting Foe, their Country plundered their Houses burnt and the Country laid waste, the whole of the Inhabitants then remaining obliged to flee for safety to the adjoining settlements. That soon after your Memorialists at their only Endeavours and expence, reinstated themselves in the aforesaid Country and drove the Savages therefrom. - That for about the space of four years after your Memorialists were compelled to confine themselves within narrow Limits, and were constantly under arms for their safety, and defence, during which Time little more could be done in cultivating the Lands than sufficient to sustain themselves. - That many attacks were made upon them by the Savages in which a large proportion of their Friends and neighbours were slain and captivated. That nearly two thirds of the male Inhabitants capable of bearing arms at the Commencement of the present War have fallen by the Hands of the Enemy, whose Widows and Father- less Children were left in the Country.
Page 682
682 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. That after the Decree at Trentown your Memorialists were made to believe that the Jurisdiction of their Country was in the State of Pennsylvania, and applied to the Legislature of said State for the benefits of Civil Government under that Jurisdiction, and for the obliteration of all former supposed offences together with a Confir- mation of the Title to their Lands. That the Memorialists have from Time to Time been flattered with assurances from the Legislature, and Executive authority of Penn- sylvania, that their Persons and properties should be secured to them, yet officers Civil and military have been sent among them of the most desperate Characters; That they have been oppressed with vexatious suits commenced against them by the opposing Claimers and their Creatures, and no legal Justice ever has been, or could be obtained against any of their oppressors. That an armed Force has been kept up in the Country, and Garrisoned in the midst of their Settlements, who have from Time to Time in the most wanton, and unjustifiable manner, abused, im- prisoned, beat, wounded, and Insulted the memorialists, at other Times have robbed the Inhabitants of their property, and on the 14th day of May last put one Alexander Patterson a Justice of Peace and one Major Moore commanding the Troops, stationed at Wyoming by order of the Legislature of Pennsylvania, by artifice disarmed the Inhabitants, and then Collected them together, men, Women, and Children without destinction, and drove them out of the Country three days Journey into the Wilderness, destitute of Provisions, having previously denied them the priviledge of collecting and carrying with them any considerable part of their personal property. That representations were immediately, made to the Executive authority of the State of Pennsylvania, and soon after to the Legislature thereof, and no Relief hath been given to them. That soon after your memorialists having made the best provision in their power for the support of their Families, returned to Wyo- ming with design to secure their Grain then nearly ripened, That the said Moore and Patterson gave orders to their Party to Fire upon, kill, and destroy your memorialists when ever they could be found, That five of their youth have been Cruelly slain by them, others taken, and imprisoned, loaded with Shackels of Iron, Eleven of which are still in the Common Goal at Easton in the County of Northampton, and are to be tryed this Week for their Lives, for no other Reason than defending themselves against the barbarous Conduct of their avowed and implacable Enemies. That your memorialists have been seduced, betrayed and ruined by the spurious pretences held out to them as from Government, which they are now.fully ascertained off. That no Faithfullness, Honor, Justice, or ordinary Civility is expectable by them, those that are disposed to assist us being over- ăwed by the apparent Influence of our adversaries with Government are afraid to grant us any Relief.
Page 683
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. 683 And your memorialists beg leave farther to observe that they humbly conceive, the Decree at Trenton was unduly obtained by Imposition, and ought to be reviewed and reconsidered by the Honorable Congress as unfounded and wrong, That your memorialists are now reduced to about 2,000 souls (not- withstanding the usual Increase expectable in a new Country) the prin- cipal part of which are Women, and Children now scattered in the Woods with only Hutts of Bark and Thatch to cover them from the Inclemency of the approaching Winter, and their Enemys in full possession of their Houses, Farms, Crops and other property and they starving with Hunger and Cold and have no where to look for protection [but] to their parent State, and may they not be permitted to say the State of Connecticut have been deprived of the Juris- diction of the aforesaid Country in so injurious a manner and your memorialists so maltreated, that their Honor, Interest, and future respectability as a sovereign State, is highly concerned, and demands speedy and ample satisfaction. Wherefore, we humbly pray your Honors to take our distressed Case into your wise, and benign Consideration and extend to us your aid, Countenance, and patronage in seeking restitution and estab- lishment of our Just Rights and properties against our adversaries, who have exercised towards us every species of Fraud, Seduction and Cruelty, and the memorialists as in duty bound will ever pray. JOHN FRANKLIN, EBENEZER JOHNSON, PHINEAS PIERCE. A true Copy as on file, Examind. By George Wyllys Sect'y. New Haven, October 20th, 1784. * RESOLUTION OF ASSEMBLY OF CouncIL ON FoREGOING MEMO- RIAL, 1784. At a Generally Assembly of the State of Connecticut in America holden at New Haven in said State on the second Thursday of October Anno Dom, 1784 Upon the Memorial of John Franklin, Ebenezer Johnson and Phineas Pierce all of Wyoming in behalf of themselves and others Inhabitants, Settlers and Claimers of a large tract of Country situate upon the Waters of the River Susquehannah within the Charter Limits of this State. Shewing to this Assembly that by the Countenance and appro- bation of the late Colony now State of Connecticut they having the strongest Reason to believe the Territory aforesaid was within the Jurisdiction of said State, purchased the same of the aborigines; native Proprietors of the Country aforesaid for a great and valuable
Page 684
684 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. consideration, and obtained from them a Deed of bargain, and Sale, executed, and compleated according to the usual and established Customs of Conveyance used by said Natives of all the Lands situate within the forty second degree of Northern Latitude, from Ten miles East, of the Easterly branch of said River Susquehannah West one hundred and twenty Miles, and thereby acquired a just, and equitable Title to said Lands, and for many years have been incorporated, and in the full exercise of Government under the Laws of the said State of Connecticut untill the publication of the Decree of the Court of Commissioners held at Trenton in the Month of November 1782 when the State of Connecticut was unexpectedly deprived of their Jurisdiction over the Territory aforesaid. That thereupon the memorialists by their humble petition made appli- cation to the State of Pennsylvania to be owned, and acknowledged as Citizens of that State to have the Title to their Houses, Lands &c., confirmed to them and to enjoy the Protection of the Laws and Government of said State; That they were repeatedly flattered with expectations favourable and benign but are at last totaly disap- pointed in their just Expectation and are now fully convinced the apparent favourable disposition of Government towards them has been improved by their opponants to the contrary Purposes, and turned wholly to their disadvantage whereby they have been deprived of their Houses, Lands and other property even their necessary Food, that they have been twice disarmed, and are now driven with their helpless Families into the Wilderness in this In- clement season, without Cover, Cloathing or Sustenance, and now address themselves to the Justice and humanity of this State im- ploring for Heavens sake Their Protection, assistance and aid as pr memorial on file. Resolved, by this assembly that it is expedient for the memorialists to persue their application to the Congress of the United States for a tryal of their Right of soil and Possession agreeable to the 9th of the articles of Confederation and that this State will Countenance and patronize them in such application, and tryal in order to obtain for them that Justice this State apprehends the memorialists are intitled to, and the Delegates from this State in Congress are di- rected to give them all necessary assistance in the premises and his Excellency the Governor is requested to adress the Congress of the United States on the subject of their situation and sufferings and also address a full state of their Claims &c., to the State of Penn- sylvania remonstrating against the Barbarities and Cruelties exer- cised towards the memorialists and requesting a Redress of their Grievances, and a Restoration of their Rights, Properties and poses- sions under the protection of the Laws and Government of said State of Pennsylvania. A true Copy of Record, Examd. By George Wyllys, Secy. **
End of Section 215. Continue to next section or 
Section 216
Page 685
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, 685 BRIGADIER GEN. ARMSTRONG to INHABITANTs of Wyoming, 1784. Whereas the S. Executive Council of this Commonwealth have by their resolution of the 1st day of October last, directed that a body of Militia be immediately called into service and moved with the utmost expedition to the townships of Shawana and Stoke, in the County of Northumberland, for the purpose of “protecting the “more peaceable inhabitants of the said townships, against the “violence of the Banditti now infesting those settlements, and for “ the better support of the civil authority there :” and whereas, by the resolution of the same date, the direction of these troops is committed to me; this is therefore to require that all the inhabit- ants of the aforesaid districts well affected to the Government of this Commonwealth, do immediately repair to this place & by so doing give evidence of their allegeance and submission to the laws; that they also renounce all connection with the Culprits, whose names are mentioned in the Proclamation annexed, and that they not only deny them all comfort and protection, but that they exert themselves in apprehending and bringing to justice all and every of the above mentioned Culprits, their associates and abettors: and whereas, it is “and ever has been the object of government to extend mercy as well as to render justice to all its subjects; this is also to assure such as may have been deluded into a hasty and mistaken opposition to its laws, and who under the influence of this delusion, have left their places of usual abode, and assembled themselves in arms for the very unlawful purpose of defending a description of men, who have rendered themselves obnoxious to the severest punishment; that if they will immediately return to their allegi- ance and their industry, Every possible representation in their favor shall be made to government, and that no effort in my power shall be wanting to procure forgiveness. Such however, as, lost to their own interest, shall, in neglect of this warning continue to give their support to the insergeants and oppose in arms the pro- gress of the Laws, and those who are sent hither to establish & pre- serve them, must look for that punishment only which it is ever in the power of the State to inflict, should it become either her duty or inclination. - - Signed, J. ARMSTRONG, jr., Brig. Gen.” Indorsed,—1784, October 20th. Paper signed by General Armstrong, assembling the inhabitants at or near Wioming. * He succeeded Gen'l Wilkinson as adjutant Gen'l of the Militia with the rank of Brig. Gen’l. See Col. Rec. Wol. XIV., p. 217, 219, & 220.
End of Section 216. Continue to next section or 
Section 217
Page 686
686 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. Brig. GEN'i. ARMSTRong to Pars. Dickinson, 1784. S Wyoming, 25th October, 1784. Ir, , The enclosed Letter from L'Col. Murray” will inform your Excelly and Council of the very shameful delinquency of the Bucks County Militia. Those of Berks, tho' more obedient, were late in coming, and brought it down to the 14th Inst., before I could take a single step from the place of rendezvous. I then found myself at the head only of forty men; with these however, I got into march, and arrived at this place on Sunday following, without any other injury or interruption than such as arose from the difficulty of the route by which we mov’d. I must now beg leave to state some of the circumstances which followed the assault of the 28th of September, the situation in which I found the country; and the more important facts which have since happened. The first event was immediately succeeded by the expulsion of such of the Pa. Claimants as were settled on the west side of the river; some of whom quitting the country entirely fell down the river as low as Checkshing, whither they have been since pursued and stript of the little which in the first instance they were per- mitted to carry with them. The others found a more secure refuge in the remains of what was the Fort. No. 2 is a copy of a circular letter with which the Pa. Claimants were respectively served about this time. During these transactions the Magistrates, (Messrs. Seely, Mead, and Shoemaker) were not idle and did every [thing] in their power to call forth a spirit of exertion among the neighbouring people, but such was their distrust of themselves and each other, that few if any could be assembled,—they wrote also to the Lieut. of the county, entreating the immediate interposition of such armed force, as he could afford them; but Volunteers could not be found, and in the * unorganized state of the Militia, no order of his could reach them. Witnesses of this immediate inefficiency of Government, and be- coming stronger in the assurance of a growing superiority; The insurgeants began now to extend their outrages to this side of the river, and obliged the greater part of its inhabitants to such a division of the grain as gratified at once their licentiousness and their wants; what the latter spared the former in many instances destroyed and nothing was to be seen upon my arrival but insolence and rapacity : wretchedness and submission. Small as my party was, it produced a temporary change in the conduct of both. The insurgeants were obliged to circumscribe their limits and the Pennsylvania Claimants enabled to gather in * See page 679.
Page 687
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 687 some part of their scattered harvest. It is however, to be regretted that its influence upon both has been less permanent than I could wish, for the moment that my force was found to be unequal to offensive operations, that moment I was attacked by the one, and in a great degree deserted by the other. In a little rencounter which took place a day or two ago, and which was brought on by an attempt to cover the labors of some poor people, who had been much and early distressed in this late disturbance. The insurgeants sus- tained some loss, and were driven into a cluster of Log Houses, which my leading platoon, (mistaking their orders,) attempted to storm, but with out effect. In this affair I had two men slightly wounded. I need scarcely observe to your Excellency, that four logg houses, so constructed as to flank each other become a very formidable post, and set all attempts of near musquetry at defiance. I had no cannon, and the only allternative left me a close invest- ment, became impracticable from a want of numbers. I was obliged therefore to relinquish the possition I had taken, and with it, the happy prospect of exterminating this Banditti at once. Their whole force was stated at this point of time at 70 men. Among my informers on this subject is Mathew Terrel, whose deposition (No. 3) is enclos'd, & who with some others of a more timid or peaceable disposition have come and thrown themselves upon me for pro- tection. This I have extended to all such without exception, and have only to regret that there are so few of them. This how- ever cannot be either new or surprizing to Your Excellency, after the frequent evidence which the people, called Connecticut Claim- ants have given of intended violence, & can only beget a farther assurance in government, that they have long since, ceased to deserve any thing of it, but its resentment. Whatever reluctancy I may feel in becoming the minister of these, I cannot but offer it as my most serious opinion that they should be soon & vigorously exerted. The detachment now here, compleated to its original number with 100 additional troops would be very sufficient for this purpose; a less number would be much exposed to disaster if not to defeat. - I am with the highest respect, your Excellency's and Council's most obdt. Hble. Servt., JOHN ARMSTRONG, jun'r. Directed, His Exc'y, President Dickinson. DEPoSITION. Before me John Seely, Esq., one of the Justices of the peace, in and for the county of Northumberland, came Mathew Tyrrell, who being duly sworn, doth depose and say that in the afternoon of
Page 688
688 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784, Sunday, the 16th instant, being at the house of the Widow Harris, in company with Elisha Duke and John Kenedy, there came up Phinese Stevens and Gideon Church, who enquired whether he the deponent and those with him had heard of the arrival of the Militia; asking also, whether they intended to join them, & swearing that all such as did not, should be burnt out; and that they would hold the country or loose their -lives; that under these threatnings, the deponent joined them on the morning following, where he found them collected at one Brookaways to the number of forty. At one Galors the deponent understood that there was another party of them, & that the above seemed to be their general language & temper. He further says, that he remained with them till Tuesday morning, when feigning sickness, he left them. Their leaders were John Franklin, Elisha Satterlee and Phen" Stevens. MATHEW TERREL. Sworn and subscribed before me this 28th October, 1784. JOHN SEELY. Oct. 25, 1784. BRIG. GEN. John ARMSTRoNG To PREs. DICKINSON, 1784. Sir, I must beg leave to refer your Excellency to Capt. Armstrong for a relation of some facts which have taken place here to-day. They seem to be a consequence of a reinforcement brought down the river by Swift. The treatment of the Lackawany people has been excessively cruel. Since my packet of yesterday was made up, I have heard that there are a few men upon their march from Bucks. Should they join me my whole Number will not exceed 50; & to suppose that half of these are to be depended upon in a moment of trial, would be a great stretch of Credulity. I am your Excellency's Most obed’t serv't, J. ARMSTRONG. Wyoming, 26 Octb., 1784. - Directed, His Excellency Presid’t Dickinson. DEPoSITION of ABIGAIL JAMEsoN, 1784. Pennsylvania, ss. On the twenty-ninth day of October, anno domini one thousand seven hundred & eighty-four, before me, George Bryan, one of the Justices of the Supreme Court at Easton, in the County of North- ampton, personally came Abigail Jamaison, of the Township of Stoke, in the County of Northumberland, Widow, who being duly
Page 689
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. 689 sworn on the holy Gospels, deposeth & saith, that on the thirteenth day of May last past, this deponent was turned out of her house in Stoke aforosaid, & driven thence to New Jersey by divers persons armed with Guns & other Weapons; that in the month of June last this deponent returned again to her dwelling house in Stoke aforesaid, & there found Agnes Jamaison, mother-in-law of this deponent, inhab- iting the said house; that this deponent continued at Stoke afore- said, & together with said Agnes lived & dwelt in said house; that in the month of August last this deponent went to New Jersey, & after some stay there with her children, returned towards Stoke aforesaid, last Sunday week, -having with her this deponent's daughter Hannah, of the age of two years or thereabouts, & passing by Bear Creek, twenty miles on this side of Stoke aforesaid, this deponent was stopped by Henry Shoemaker, Esquire, who said that this deponent could not get through, and that Jacob Cline led this deponent two miles back towards Colonel Stroud's; that after night, this deponent being left alone, proceeded again towards her house aforesaid at Stoke, & arrived there safely; that this deponent upon returning to her habitation at Stoke as aforesaid, found her Mother- in-law possessed of her house there, & that this deponent took pos- session of said house & dwelled there in peace, untill Wednesday the twentieth day of this present month of October, when going towards the fort to carry food for Robert Jamaison, then prisoner there, this deponent was stopped by Alexander Patterson, Esquire, & taken back to her own house, being five miles distant; that on the way the said Patterson & his men stopped at the Widdow Abigail Holli- wood's & turned her out of possession of her dwelling. That about an hour after, the said Alexander Patterson & his party, about ten in all, came near to this deponent's dwelling, Patterson stopping at about twenty rods therefrom ; that about ten men came up to this deponent's house & forcibly turned this deponent, the said Agnes Jamaison, Rosanna Jamaison, & the said Hannah Jamaison out of the same, & threw out at the same time this deponent's household & other goods; that one of the men who thus ousted this deponent as aforesaid, shut the doors & nailed them up ; that the said Alexander Patterson, who acted as the director of the said party of men coming to the said House, threatened this deponent that her said house would be demolished over her head in case she went into it & lived there again, & ordered this deponent to look for other quarters; that the said Agnes Jamaison was at the time, when the said forcible dis- possession was made, very sick & a-bed, & by the terror of the riotous proceedings aforesaid, was driven into an hysteric fit, & that the said Agnes, in this distressed condition, was carried out of the said house, & placed in the dwelling house of John Cressy, whose abode was near to this deponent's ; that this deponent the next day after the deposition aforesaid, complained thereof to General Arm- strong, who denied that the same had been done by his orders, or
Page 690
690 PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. that his men had done it, but did not interfere or do anything to relieve this deponent. ABIGAIL JAMESON. Taken & sworn before GEORGE BRYAN. Abig'l Jameson bound in £50 to give Evid'ce. Alex'r Patterson, in . . $250 Tent, [?] that A. P. keep Wm. Smith, Jun., Esqr., 125 the peace & behave & appear James Moore, Esqr., . . 125) next Oyer, &c. PETITION of PRISONERS AT EASTON, 1784. The Honorable the Supreme Executive Council of the Common- monwealth of the State of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen : Suffer us, your humble Petitioners, to lay before your Honorable Body our distress'd Situation; on the account of our Confinement, in this sultry Season of the Year, about thirty of us, confin'd in two small Rooms, in Irons, and nothing to live upon but one pound of Bread a Day, which has impair'd our health to that degree, that we are able just to walk our Room at present, but one week more such cruel Treatment will most certainly reduce us to the shades of Death and land us in the world of Spirits: This, Gentlemen, is no Chimera but God’s Truth; for our animal Spirits, together with our flesh, are almost exhausted by the Severities j we undergo in our Imprisonment, and no one to administer any Consolation to us. If we have done any thing worthy of Bonds, Imprisonment or Death, we refuse neither; but to be confined here in this dismal place and not suffer'd to have the fresh air, which God has made free for all his Crea- tion; and not only deprived of this great and inconceivable blessing, but denied the necessaries of life, as tho' it was the determination of those who put us here, to destroy us by a lingering Death, and make that as gashly and formidable as possible; we cannot possibly think but that we have stood up for the Honor and Dignity of this State in what we have done, and that the Aligation laid to our Charge originated in malice and revenge; and we are not alone in our Judgment; therefore we, your humble and injured Petitioners, would most humbly pray that your honorable Body would exert yourselves to do us Justice, and consequently emancipate us from this intolerable and, as we think, unjust Confinement, or we must soon be beyond your help or any finite Beings; and if your Hon- orable Body can see fit in your wisdom and Goodness to grant our humble prayer, we will, as in Duty bound, ever pray, &c. William Slocum, Nath’l Cook, Joseph Corey, Benjamin Jenkin, Gideon Church, Williaam Jenkins,
End of Section 217. Continue to next section or 
Section 218
Page 691
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. 691, Abraham Pyke, Walter Spencer, Lord Butler, John Gore, John Hurlbut, Jonathan Burwell, Daniel Sullivan, - Jeremiah White, William Jackson, Prince Allen, Richard Hallsted, Thomas Stoddard, Edward Inman, Elis. Gaharda, Thomas Heath, Justis Gaylord, Nathaniel Walker, - John Platner, Thomas Read, Abram Nesbitt. Elisha Harding, DEPoSITION,+Joseph KING, 1784. Before me John Secly, Esqr., one of the Justices of the peace in and for the County of Northumberland came Joseph King, & being Duly sworn doth depose and say, that on Wednesday the thir Instant, being at his Labour in Shawina Township with four others' Thrashing Buckwheat, they were surrounded by a Number of Armed men and made prisoners, (Benjamin Badlock & Elisha Sat- terly commanded the party of Robbers,) they marched the said de- ponent with the others up to their place of Rendevous & on the road abused the said deponent verry much by jabbing their guns in his sides, when they arrived near their quarters, they tied a Rope Round the Deponents neck and beat & abused the said Deponents without Mercy. John Franklin commander of s'd Body of Robbers, made the Deponent promise to Quit the country and never lift arms again, which if he did and they could lay their hands on him they would take his life, and upon those promises they let him go, the Deponent says that he is not yet able to lift a pail of Water on Account of the Bruises he received of the said Robbers, farther the deponant sayeth not. - his JOSEPH, 24 KING. mark November 5th 1784. Sworn & subscribed before me, JN" SEELY.
Page 692
692 PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. PREs. DickINson To SPEAKER of Assembly. I am desired by Council, to send the inclosed Dispatches to you, requesting that they may be communicated to the General Assem- bly. y I am with the greatest esteem Sir, your most obedient and very humble Servant, JOHN DICKINSON. Nov'r 8th 1784. Directed, To the Honorable The speaker. Indorsed, Letter from his Excellency the President, inclosing divers papers &c., relating to the disturbances at Wyoming Read 1 time Nov'r 8, 1784, & on motion &c., read 2 time & re- ferred to Mr. Moor, Mr. Kuhl & Harris. John SEELY To GEN'L ARMSTRONG, 1784. Sir, Yesterday I had a conference with the three persons mentioned to you, this day at 11 o'clock I rec'd their ans'r they have agreed that upon sufficient assurances from under your hand & seal that all processes for their former transactions being stopt, and that they may have free Liberty of passing through the country unmolested, they will lay down their arms and never take them up again in op- osition to the State of Pennsylvania, they Likewise say they must }. one hundred Guineas to purchase themselves cloaths, &c. Your Proposition of an act of Government to stop all suits ag't them, I have promised should be done. The Guineas I have not yet engaged them, but think it will save great Expence to the state to let them have them. Also agreed that all Hostilities shall cease & no more Distresses made on the Inhabitants untill they have a meeting with you, which they request may be as soon as possible, and desire the same may be kept a profound secret from both parties, which if known may occa- sion them to take up arms again, I mean untill the matter is pro- perly settled between you & them, they also say they will occation the whole party to Disperse. I am Sir, your Most Ob't Humble Serv't, * JNO. SEELY. Wyoming, Monday Nov. 8th, 1784.
Page 693
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1784. 693 DEPOSITION,+NATHAN CARY, 1784. North'd Co., ss. Personally appeared before me one of the Justices of the peace for the s'd Co., Nathan Cary, who being duly sworn doth depose & say that about the 20th Oct'r last, he this Depo't was in the house of Christopher Holebut when he was taken prisoner by Jacob Wood- cock & Cornelius Bishop, and was taken down to Mr. Jemison's where Alex'r Patterson was, who told this Depo't to go home & make ready to leave his House next day, & to take his Family with him; the next day an armed party came down to the House of this Dep't & threw the chief of his goods out of Doors, in presents of his wife & rob'd him, this Dep't of about 20 Dol's worth of property, this Dep't came near the house on which the party went off Henry Shoemaker, Silas Taylor, Philip Taylor, Ebenezer Taylor, Jun'r & Joseph Salmon being in the party & all armed, s'd Shoemaker asked this Dep't why he was not gone, & added if he was not gone the next Day it would not be good for him, & further saith not, Sworn & subscribed the 9th NATHAN CARY. Nov’r, 1784, before me - ROB'T MARTIN. Justice of Pennsylvania, DEPoSITION,+DoRCAs STEwART. Northum'd County Ss. - *. Personally appeared before me, Robert Martin, one of the Justices of the peace for sº Co. Dorcus Stewart, who being sworn on the Holy Evangelist of Almighty God, doth depose and say, that about the 20th of October last, a party of armed men came to the House of this Dep.–To wit, Henry Shoemaker, Joseph Salmon, Benjamin Mundy, Philip Taylor, Ebenezar Taylor, Peter Taylor, Benjamin Taylor, Silas Taylor, William Tyler & John Jennings, who entered the House of this Dept. with a number of other persons unknown & ordered this Dept. & all that belonged to the House to be gone immediately, on which Shoemaker, Munday & others, began to throw the §. of this Dept. out of Doors when Shoemaker was asked by whose orders they acted, he answered it was by the General Orders & continued to throw all this Dept. goods out of the House & robed her of property to the amt. of £15, & knocked the Logs out of the House till the loft Fell Down & further saith not. DORCAS STEWART. 10th November, 1784, before me ROBT. MARTIN. Sworn & subscribed the } WOL. X. —30
Page 694
694 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. DEPosition,-HANNAH HILLMAN, 1784. Before me, John Seely, Esquire, one of the Justices of the peace in & for the County of Northumberland, appeared Hannah Hillman, Spinster, of the said County, & being duly sworn doth depose & say, that on Thursday the Instant, being at the house of Cor- nelius Van Horn in the Township of Shawana—she there saw John Franklin & a number of other armed men, she supposes about forty, who approaching the house on different sides, surrounded it; with an intention (as they said,) of cutting off a party of the militia which had been stationed there & which had been that morning withdrawn to the Fort-that Franklin swearing in a most profane manner declared that he would be revenged of some bf them & particularly of Wm. Simms who was with the said party, adding that within a night or two he would set fire to his house & burn him up alive. He talked a great deal & much of his language was to the same purpose.—Further this Deponent saith not. her HANNAH 24 HILLMAN. mark. this of November, 1784. Sworn & subscribed before me JNo. SEELY. BRIG. GEN. ARMSTRONG TO PREs. DickINsoN, 1784. Sir - i’had some time since the honor of stating to your Excellency & Council the situation in which I found the insurrection at Wyoming and some of the more important facts which had taken place upon my arrival. Among the most early measures which I took to convince this deluded people of their mistaken conduct was the paper enclos'd (mark'd No. 1,”) which I forgot to transmit by Capt. Armstrong, the others, which are of the same nature have been attended by the same effect, none but replies of insolence were made to either. Unable to attempt anything offensive I therefore took a resolution to come hither & consult, the Judges of the Supreme Court upon the farther measures which in this situation ought to be taken. It was their opinion that a line of meer defensive conduct on the part of the State held out a promise of sooner bringing about the objects of Government than one of a more active nature. This, however reluctantly I was obliged to observe from the first moment I enter'd the Country, and am not sanguine in expecting any better conse- quence than we have already seen & felt, from an adherance to it. * See page 676.
End of Section 218. Continue to next section or 
Section 219
Page 695
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1784. 695 * Every measure which supposes that farther Unity will produce better conduct will be found unavailing, but untill Government be so well assured of this truth as I ever have been, the milder ex- pedients of forgiving & forgetting may be pursued. Col. Johnstone who has been at Wyoming since I left it, will explain the appearances which presented themselves to him, they were such, as begat but few hopes of being able by gentle methods to extinguish a flame, which has extended itself to a whole people composed as they are of vagrants & desperadoes. I shall remain here for a few days, untill I find myself better able to encounter the roughness of the roads & the season, & shall then sett out for Philad'a, after directing such a disposition of the few troops which desertion has left me, as will best promote the objects for which they were sent. I am, Sir, your Excell’ys most obed’t serv't, J. ARMSTRONG, JR. 15th Nov., 1784. Directed, His Excell’y, The Presid’t. Resolution of GENERAL AssEMBLY, 1784. State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly, Thursday, December 23, 1784, P. M. A certificate signed by Edward Burd, Esquire, Clerk of the Court of Oyer and Terminer and General Gaol delivery, was presented to the chair, and read, stating that at a court of Oyer and Terminer and General goal delivery held for the county of Northumberland, in May last, Henry Shoemaker, Esquire, a Justice of the peace in and for the said County, was convicted by a Jury of the county, of a riot committed on the thirteenth day of May last, by him and many others; and on motion, and by special order, the same was read the second time, whereupon Resolved, that the said Henry Shoemaker, for his misconduct as aforesaid, be, and he is hereby removed from his office of Justice of the peace for the county of Northumberland. Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk of the General Assembly.
Page 696
696 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. . John OKELY To SPEAKER or Assembly, 1785. Bethlem, 16th Jan., 1785. Dear Sir, I saw by the Minutes of Assembly a purpose of appointing Com- missioners to ascertain, in conjunction with others of the State of N. Jersey, what Islands in the River Delaware do of Right belong to the State.* I have likewise been informed by a Friend of nine in Town that I had been thought of for one of the Number. If that be the case, I beg leave to acquaint you, as a Person to whom I am not altogether unknown, that should your Honble. House think proper to make Choice of me for the Purpose, it shall be my care and endeavor to discharge the Trust thereby reposed in me with such zeal and integrity as may reflect Honor on myself and Constituents. Pardon my Freedom & believe me to be with the utmost sincerity & Regard, dr. Sir, Your obed’t hble. Servt., Directed, J. OKELY. The Honble John Bayard, Esq. E. Douglass To SEC'Y ARMSTRONG, 1785. Union Town, 27th January, 1785. Sir, - Unwilling to send you this certificate of election in a blank, and desirous of saying something on the subject, I have sat with my head leaning on my hand these ten minutes to consider what that some- thing should be, and after all have considered that whatever I could say upon it would amount to nothing, for I have not knowledge of Gentlemen foremost on it to justify my giving a character of him. I have already been deceived into a misrepresentation to Coun- cil on a former one, for which I most penitentially beg forgiveness, protesting at the same time my innocency in it, for the Constable who made the return, and several others of the township of Manal. lin assured me it would be petitioned against, but I find they have not done it, nor are they attempting it. I can offer nothing more on that subject, unless it be that the township is in great want of a Justice. I have given their characters faithfully as I received them from the general voice of the inhabitants hereabout. Council in their wisdom will do the rest. I have the honor to be with high esteem Sir, Your most humble and obedient servant, EPHRAIM DOUGLASS. Directed, John Armstrong, junr., Secretary. .*. See Smith's Laws, Vol. II, pp. 77, 388, for the acts respecting juris- diction of the Islands.
Page 697
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, 697 DELEGATES IN CoNGREss. To SPEAKER or Assembly, 1785. “ Si New York, Feby 11th, 1785, lf, The appointment of Commissioners to carry into effect the ordi- nance of Congress for the Purpose of erecting federal buildings upon the banks of the Delaware has taken near four days of this week, and has this day been effected; Genl. Schuyler, Phil. Dickinson and Robt. Morris are the commissioners. Some States have not been hearty in the measure. Maryland has been principally active in delay—from what motives we are not at liberty to do more than conjecture. Perhaps the precipitate retreat of Congress last sum- mer from their Capitol has its influence, or they rather wished the banks of the Potomack had been fixed for the permanent federal residence, which would have placed the Capital of the United States nearer them. But whatever reasons operated with them it is very evident that Congress have lost that influence at home and respecta- bility abroad which are essentially necessary to conduet with advan- tage the concerns of a great nation, and which can never be regained while they are once or twice a year moving from place to place. Princeton, Annapolis and Trenton have been visited in order, & in the very hour of expectation each have experienced disappointment. New York is now the temporary residence untill a permanent one is provided, and if this should fail Perhaps this City in turn will feel her share of chagrin by another removal. In short, sir, there appears no end to removals but in the erection of a permanent fede- ral House in which each State will have an interest and in some degree find themselves at home. We gave a cheerful assent to the ordinance at Trenton, convinced of the advantage and necessity of the measure, and believing that it would meet the approbation of our constituents, who have generally stood first in executing every thing that appeared calculated to pro- mote the honor and happiness of the federal government. The Place proposed in the ordinance, whether on this or that side the Delaware is very favorable to Pennsylvania. Much of the money expended there will finally enter in our State—this deserves attention. The offer made by New Jersey of thirty thousand pounds and territorial Jurisdiction gave rise to an enquiry which we have frequently heard, what will Pennsylva. do? To this we cannot answer, but as the Legislature are now sitting, we state these things to you in order that they may have it in their power to favor us with their instructions upon this point as soon as con- venient. Wednesday next is appointed for discussing the report of a com- mittee respecting the appointment of additional commissioners of accts., and we have reason to hope it will fully answer the intention of the house. A compleat Copy of the Laws and resolutions of the legislature since the Revolution are very necessary for us, therefore
Page 698
698 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. we request that we may be furnished with them as early as con- venient. We have heard nothing of the Wyoming Business since we last wrote you. We have Honor to be Sir, Your very h’ble Servts., JOS. GARDNER. This letter was intended to be a joint one, but Mr. McHenry is out, therefore wants his signature. Directed, The Honorable John Bayard, Esqr., Philadelphia. Free.—J. Gardner. Indorsed, Read 1 time Feb'y 18, 1785. Read 1 time Feb'y 19, and granted. CERTIFICATE or GAOLER, 1785. To all Whom This may Concern. This is to Certify That the bearer hereof Patrick Hely brought and Delivered into the Gaol of the City and County of Philadelphia a Certain Robert Johnston Steel Committed by the Honourable Thomas McKean Esquire, Docktor of Laws and Chief Justice of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. By the Name of Robert Steel attainted by outlawry in the Supreme Court of this State for Robin John Hart Esquire, Treasurer of the County of Bucks and the .# Robert Johnston Steel otherwise Called Robert Steel is Now in safe custody in the Gaol aforesaid This 12th day of February, 1785. JOHN REYNOLDS, Gaoler. Philadelphia ss. I do hereby certify that the above named Robert Steel, who changed his name in North Carolina to Robert Johnston, and Robert Johnston Steel confessed before me that he was at Newton in Bucks County on the night of the day in which the Treasurer of that county was robbed, and that he is the person named & intended to be º by the Supreme Council of the State of Pennsyl- vania, by their Proclamation founded on an Act of Assembly there- of, Witness my hand this 12th day February 1785. THO McKEAN.
Page 699
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1785. 699 MATHEw Boggs To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Pittsburg 20th, 1785. Sir, In Sept. 1783, my husband James Boggs Recd instructions from Brigadear Genl. Irwin with his permission for to settle & Improve on the Reserved Tract, of Land oposite to Fort Pitt, as will appear by a Copy of his instructions sent by Mr. Galbreath the Bearer of this who has some knowledge of this matter. My husband with his small family went to work accordingly on the same Tract built him a house & Cleared about eight or Ten acres of Land, my husband is since dead, & Col William i. having obtained an act of Assem- bly in his favour for a ferry on the Alleganey River & a Lot of ground assigned him at the mouth of a Run empteying in on the west side of the River, has in Consequence of that Taken poseation of a part of the Lands Cleared by my husband & I presume more than the Lot mentioned & that on the back part of my house, he has lately Told me that I must turn out of the housein the Spring this I think would be rather hard as I am now Left a widow & not pro- vided with any other home at the present. Should your Excellency direct I will then Chearfully Comply or should Col. Butler get his Lot Laid of to him on the ground mentioned in the Law, my Littel house & small field would then be by no means in his ways, all I wish is that I may be allowed to set where I am untill Counsels pleasure to Remove me, or should the ground where I Live be sold or to be Leased by the State that I may be allowed the preference. I am your Excellenoy, most obedient humble Servant, MARTHEA BOGGS, Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, President of Counsel Philad. Hond. by Robt. Galbrieth Esqr. PETITION of INHABITANTs of Wyoming, 1785. To the Honble the Representatives of the Freemen of the Common- wealth of the State of Pennsylvania, in General Assembly met. Gentlemen, We your humble petitioners would take the earliest opportunit to lay before your Honble House the deplorable situation in . we have been enveloped since the decree of Trenton, which chang'd the jurisdiction in favor of Pennsylvania, from that Date we have been Deny'd the due administration of the Laws of Pennsylvania, or in other words Common Justice, which the greatest criminals are intitled to, according to all Statute and Common Laws of all Chris- -
Page 700
700 PENNSYLVANA ARCHIVES 1785. tianized people. Altho' we have made incessant application to the Legislative Body of this state for justice to be administered without any discrimination of persons: yet to no purpose, altho' fair promises were made ; and we had finally concluded there was no justice in reversion for us, either from the Legislative or Executive Bodies of this State. But being creditably informed that the present Assem- bly were composed of such persons who feared God, and regarded man, and consequently had a promptitude to do justice to all their fellow-creatures; this served as a stimulus to us to make one prayer more to the Homble Assembly for justice to be administered without partiality. Believing that your Honble Body will do all in your power to redress our grievances, and put us upon the same footin with the common Citizens of this state, which is all we ask. .# farther permit us to say that all the disorders, irregularities and un- justifiable proceedings taken against us, were committed under such aggravated circumstances, as no christianized people ever ex- perienced before from the most barbarous savages to begin with the first rise of Pennsylvania Government in this settlement, (Viz.:) the Election of those Magistrates, who were to act in that sphere in this part of the County of Northumberland, is as follows, they were chosen by people from different counties of this state, together with people from the state of the New Jersys and elsewhere, and those that were elected were principally inhabitants of the County of Northampton, and all this was done without our consent or knowledge; and we who had the sole right of choosing our Magis- trates, were denyed the privilege which were justly intitled to. Which Election we know to be unconstitutional and in the face and eyes of all law, both Statute and Common. Yet altho' the sd Elec- tion was in itself wrong and illegal, was established by an act of the then Assembly directing the Executive Body of the state to Commission the sd. Magistrates. Who soon after they were Com- missioned repaired to Wyoming where they sought the ruin of the N. England setlers, and spread devastation wherever they went or acted; and in order that these ill-minded and unconstitutional Magistrates should be enabled to carry their unjustifiable plans into execution against us, an armed force of soldiers, was raised by this state, and stationed at Wyoming, in open violation of the articles of the confederation of the United States of America, (as is observed by the Honble the Council of Censors.) And after these Magistrates in conjunction with the Military authority had made many inroads on justice and humanity, We as a Body entered to the Assembly our Protestation & abhorrance against the sd Election of the Magis- trates, also against such a line of conduct as these Magistrates, (Wiz, Patterson and Seely) were guilty of, and we might with propriety mention one more upon which the assembly appointed a committee to repair to Wyoming to investigate and ascertain the truth of those allegations of ours which were laid to the charge of those Magistrates, And upon Tryal found the allegations were fully and amply sup-
End of Section 219. Continue to next section or 
Section 220
Page 701
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 701 ported by creditable and indisputable evidences and made report accordingly to the assembly, at which time we had an agent at the Assembly to urge the necessity of something to be immediately done in our favor. The report of the committee was re-committed, and from that referr'd to a second committee. And finally after our agent had indefatigably labored with the Assembly for near three months with great expence of money; returned with the disagree- able news, that the assembly . do nothing for us; but still suffered those illegal and ill-minded magistrates, who had been the occasion of all the tumults and disorders, which were committed at this place, to go with impunity, And we may say that to help compleat our ruin; Henry Shoemaker was about this time commissioned by Council, to act in conjunction with these other magistrates. And this neglect of the G. Assembly has proved the destruction of this settlement, and cost this state thousands of pounds, which had bet- ter been taken and given to the poor; In this manner we have been treated by the authority of this state untill we were drove to a state of desparation, and supposed that there was no justice in reversion for us in the State of Pennsylvania, because a deaf ear was turned to all our prayers and entreaties, and great credit given to all the false misrepresentations of our avow’d, and implacable enemies, and all those depositions, that were taken at Wyoming by the committee, & carried to the assembly, were not even suffered to be read in the G. Assembly, and consequently truth withheld from the state, which was at that time of the utmost concern that these allegations should come to the knowledge of Pennsylvania, but alass they were concealed and the truth kept from the good inhabitants, who had a right to the same. The concealment of which appeared to us to originate from disaffection towards the N. England setlers; upon which it appeared to us in Wain to trouble the Assembly or sue for Justice after so many denials. We have ever since the decree of Trenton been intirely denyed the Benefits of Citizens and Free- holders, and have been treated as Aliens and Strangers to the Com- monwealth of Pennsylvania, and how the present assembly look upon us, and what measures for our future protection and safety, they mean to take, we cannot say. And therefore think we shall be justified in the eyes of the impartial world to lye in a Dormant Situation untill the Present Assembly shall in their wisdom see fit to let us know in what point of light that Honble House look upon us whither they will give us the priviledge which all Freemen by the laws of all Christianized people are intitled to, (Wiz.:) Citizen- ship and Freeholdership, that is the power of choosing our own officers Civil and Military, for we have felt the dire effect of sub- mitting to other Counties and States choosing authority to rule us, for we are confident that some of those that were Elected and others that elected them neither feared God, nor regarded Man. Therefore we think that we cannot in justice to ourselves, ever sub- mit to such an illegal step again; and we are assured we shall be 30+
Page 702
702 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, justified in opposing any such unconstitution proceedings; in vindica- tion of the rights of mankind, and that inherent right which the God of nature has bestowed upon men at large. In this resolution we think we are not opposing the laws of this State: but in vindica- tion of the same and that your Homble House will justify us in our Determination—for it is not our intention to oppose the laws of this State, but coroberate them; tho' our enemies have and will carry false reports to your Honble House, which have no existence but in their distempered Brain; and Maliciously and Wickedly report that we will not submit to the Laws of this State. Again we have been often trappan'd by our passive obedience and non-resistance, and confiding in some of the first men in office in the State to mention one instance of Lt. Col. John Armstrong and John Boyd, Esqs., who by forfeiting their word and Honors and every thing that is near to Gentlemen, made us Prisoners, abus'd us, with more than savage treatment, and robed us of upwards of one hundred rifles and valuable fire arms, and many other effects, even to our smallest Pen-knives; and we may say with propriety that we have been Rob'd of upwards of two hundred Rifles and valuable fire arms by officers of Government since the first of last May, which have never been returned to this day. And altho' we have often Petitioned the former Assembly for Justice in all the cases wherein we were injured and abused, but could obtain no redress, and we have undergone such a series of injustice, plunder, rapine and murder, from those who pretended to do us justice, that we are reduced to the shades of death. And if we can obtain any assistance from your Honble House in a line of justice, We shall ever acknowledge the same with thankfulness and a true sence of Gratitude. And untill your honors shall condescend to draw a line for our future conduct it is impossible for us to know what course to steer. We are at present destitute of any Civil authority in this place. Esq. Mead has refused to grant any precept these six weeks past. Therefore the sooner we can have the priviledge of electing our own Officers, Civil and Military, agreeable to the constitution of this state, the sooner happiness, peace and good order will be re- stored to this settlement. We would also beg leave to point out to your honors some proposals made to us by some of the Magistrates of this county about eight weeks since, to enable us to elect our own Magistrates. And first it was proposed to have a number of us to purchase a tract of wild Land on the mountains (under the proprietors Claim,) and that Col. W. Montgomery should survey the same, which Land we should divide amongst a larger number and thereby become Freeholders, and entitled to elect our Magis- trates. Which proposal we rejected for we were not willing to give our money, for that which we esteemed our own, nor buy those Priviledges that we were so justly entitled to. Secondly, Esq. Mead proposed to call all the Inhabitants together of both parties, without any regard to Freeholders, (as is directed by the constitution,) and he would lead us to a choice of Magistrates, and make report to
Page 703
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, 703 Council, and know whether that Homble Body would approve the choice or not; this proposal we also rejected and dispis'd, as we looked upon it to be unconstitutional, and that our enemies and those that had no right upon an equal footing in the Election, with those of us who have the sole right. Therefore for these reasons we apply to your honors for a line to be drawn that we may know what course to steer. - And in the intermediate space, while we have no authority in this place, we have thought most advisable to form ourselves in some order for our mutual defence and safety, and to act as near the Laws of this State as possible, until we shall have a constitutional Establishment of the same. And we most heartily pray for your Honors exertions to establish peace and good order in this distracted and infatuated place; for we think that the political salvation of this settlement depends upon your asseduity, and exertions in this respect as well as the Happiness and safety of this State, which we insist on, we have always strove for since the decree at Trenton, and have endeavoured to demean ourselves in such an equitable line of conduct, that we are justly entitled to all the immunities of Free- Citizens and Freeholders, which if allowed our prayer is in a great measure answered. And we will pray that the benedictions of Almighty God may rest upon your Honorable Body, and that your Honors may have wisdom as the angels of God, to direct you at all times, and that you may consult such measures and carry them in execution, as shall terminate in the advancement of Messiah's Kingdom, and consequently in the Wealand prosperity of this state. And that your honors may be enabled at all times to consult the happiness of this state in such a manner that your names may be sacred in the annals of history, and generations yet unborn, when they come on the stage of action may call you blessed is the sincere prayer of your humble Petitioners. And we as in duty bound will ever pray. Wyoming, February 20th, 1785. John Jenkins, Nathan Wade, Abigail Jameson, Martha Stuart, Wm. Jones, Richard Inman, John Inman, Ishmeal Bennet, Walter Spencer, Neemiah Northrop, Alex. Jameson, Robt. McDowl, Jont. Corey, Obadiah Camel, John Hurlbut, Robt. Jemmison, Abm. Westbrook, Elijah Inman, Mason F. Alden. William Hiberd, Jno. Minor, Jerh. White, Lenard Westbrook, Benjamin Harvey, William Jacson. Daniel Holly, Ebenezar Parish, Eldad Kellogg, Jacob Johnson, Ebenezer Johnson, John Franklin, Giles Slocum, Simon Spaulding, Phens. Peirce, Phens. Nash, Nathan Kingsly, James Frisby, Sam'l Ayres, Hezekiah Roberts, Benj. Bidlack, Reubin Cook, Elisha Drake,
Page 704
704 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Jos. Coray, Josiah Kellogg, Zeb. Butler, Lebeus Tubs, Josh. Wan Fleet, Prince Alden, Sam. Tubs, Rich. Westbrook, Thos. Read, Richard Broekway, William Slocum, Joel Thomas, Thomas Bennet, William Warner, Able Yarington, Manas Kady, Nath. Cook, John Hyde, Dan'l Jinkingson, Naphtali Hurlbut, Able Pierce, Jonathan Woodworth, James Atherton, Joseph Elliott, Gabriel Corey, Asahel Atherton, Frederick Eveland, Jonathan Wolley, Sarah Lee, Asal Burnham, Dan'l Pierce, Jean Shoemaker, Josiah Pell, Thos. McCluer, Jonat. Terry, Steven Fuller, Daniel Gore, Abraham Harding, Thomas Baldwin, Silas Smith, Thomas Park, Joseph Kenny, Samuel Hover. Elisha Harvey, Job Styles, Henry Hover, Nathl. Devinport, John Platner, Wm. Hooker Smith, Conrad Lions, Justus Gaylord, Chist. Hurlbut, Benj. Baily, Ambrose Gaylord. PETITION OF MESSRs. DuNCAN AND FINLEY of PITTSBURG, 1785. To his Excellency John Dickinson, Esquire, President, and the Honourable Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in Council assembled : The Petition of David Duncan and John Finley, of the Town of Pittsburgh, Humbly sheweth, That your petitioners having been informed that Fort McIntosh is to be evacuated in the Spring, and they having engaged in busi- ness in the Indian Trade, would willingly undertake the care of the Garrison and Buildings at that place. That unless some person or persons are appointed to take care of the Garrison, it will be in †. of being destroyed by the Indians, or the burning of the OOOIs. Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray your Honors would be pleased License them to Trade in the business aforesaid, at the place aforesaid, for such Time as your honours shall think proper during ood behaviour, and your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will pray, C*. DAVID DUNCAN, JOHN FINLEY. Pittsburgh, February 26, 1785.
Page 705
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1785. 705 . MINUTEs of A MEETING AT SURVEYoF GENERAL's, 1785. At a Meeting at the Surveyor General's, 7th M'ch, 1785, Present, - #. i.S.. º, Esq., President, The honbi Jnº. Nevill, Esq. The Surveyor Gen', Mr. Likens, The Receivor Gen', Mr. Johnston, The Secretary, Mr. Kennedy. Resolved, that for preventing delays upon applications to Deputy Surveyors by Persons claiming Lands in the Counties of Westmore- land, Washington and Fayette, by virtue of Rights acquired under, founded on, or recognized by the Laws of Virginia, the Surveyor Gen'l forthwith furnish his Deputies with necessary Transcripts of the Papers communicated by the Government of Virginia to the Supreme Executive Council, and by them put into his Hands—that he enjoin them to pay immediate attention to all applications appeared to be supported by Rights obtained as aforesaid before the 23d of June, 1780, that in Returns of all Surveys made on such applications they certify whether the particular description men- tioned in such entries correspond with the Lands shewn by the Ap- plicants—That where such Deputies cannot conveniently attend the taking depositions in disputed Cases, they earnestly require both the Parties to be present when they shall be taken, in order to avoid the Trouble & Expence they must otherwise unavoidably incur, and that to give facility and dispatch in settling the claims afore- said, it be recommended to the Surveyor Gen'l to lessen the Dis- tricts and appoint a greater number of Deputies—and that in his choice of them he take all possible care to guard against the appoint- ment of any person influenced by Prejudices upon the subject of such Claims. * DELEGATES IN CoNGRESs To PREs. DICKINSON, 1785. New York, March 9th, 1785. Sir, We have been honored with your Excellency's favor of * date, inclosing the Memorial of the Merchants and Traders of the City of Philada., expressing their apprehensions of further depreda- tions on their trade by the Barbary Corsairs, if speedy and effectual measures are not taken to prevent them, which has been laid before Congress—and we are happy to inform you, Sir, & thro' you the Merchants of Philada., that Congress have not been inattentive to this very important concern, to which we believe they are well dis- * Feby. 17. See page 410.
Page 706
706 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES : 1785. posed to give every relief in their power. Our ministers abroad have long since been authorized to negociate with the States of Bar- bary" (in common with others) treaties of amity & commerce, which we have reason to know have only been rendered ineffectual hereto- fore (with the Barbary States) for want of a sum of money, which custom has made absolutely necessary to purchase them. Congress have lately appropriated for this purpose a sum of money not exceeding eighty thousand dollars, subject to the draughts of our ministers. A Gentleman well recommended for his integrity and personal knowledge of that country, will be charged with fresh dispatches to Europe in a short time, respecting this business, who may probably be employed to carry into effect the wishes of Congress at the Court of the Emperor of Morrocco. Altho' we ardently wish as much as possible to satisfy the anxiety of the merchants upon this subject, yet we request that no extracts may be taken or published, as the matter is yet sub judice, and any premature publication may have a tendency to delay, if not prevent, the proposed negociations, and draw the unwary merchants into a snare, by mistaking the intention for the fact. There is little rea- son to doubt but that Great Britain will use all her influence to pre- vent any such treaties being made. As soon as Congress have taken their final determinations upon this subject, we will have the honor of communicating them as far as our injunctions of secrecy will admit. Mr. Marbois, in the name of the King, his master, has made a demand of Longchamps; this has been under consideration for several days as the order of the day, and has been postponed; when this great national question may be discussed is uncertain, but there appears no disposition to hurry. No moves have been made by the Connecticut Gentlemen upon the Wyoming business, and we remain in the dark what the wish of the State is in that affair. If any determinations of the house take place, we will be much oblidged by your Excell’ys communication upon that subject. Gen'l Knox is appointed Secretary at War. The treasury is not yet formed—no official acc’ts from Jarvais or Osgood whether they will serve or no. We are, With great respect, Sir, Your Excell’ys most obt. & Wery h'ble Serv'ts, JOSEPH GARDNER, WILLIAM HENRY. * See page 410, 411, 418.
Page 707
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 707 ELECTION BY GENERAL Assembly, 1785. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly, Thursday, March 10, 1785, A.M. Agreeably to the order of the day, the House proceeded to the election of a Recorder of Deeds in and for the city and county of Philadelphia, and the ballots being taken, it appeared that Matthew Irwin, Esquire, was duly elected. Extract from the Minutes, J. SHALLUS, Ass’t Clerk of the General Assembly. F. Hopkinson To CouncIL, 1785. To his Excellency the President & Honourable the supreme Executive Council. Gentlemen, Enclosed is a certified account of Fees received in my office during the Quarter ending the 13th Instant. I have to request that your Honours would be pleased to grant me a warrant on the Treasury for £50 on account of salary, agreeably to former usage. I have the honor to be, with all due Respect, your most obedient very humble servant, FRAS. HOPKINSON. Philad'a, March 17th, 1785. Indorsed, Referred to the Comptroller Gen. It hath been customary to advance in quarterly paym'ts about the sum within Requested and to settle the acco’t of The Judge of The Admiralty once a year, when he credits the several advances, and the fees Rec'd for the foregoing year, the sum now asked together with the fees of the last quarter do not amo't to one quarter's salary. JNo. NICHOLSON. 22d Mar., 1785. DAVID MEAD To PREs. DICKINson—WYOMING, 1785. Wioming, March 30th, 1785. His Excellency the President, Inclosed I Transmit a few Depositions for your Perusal, Relative to the most Deplorable situation of this part of the State.
End of Section 220. Continue to next section or 
Section 221
Page 708
708 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Council I suppose so well informed that I need say nothing on the subject, and the more I am surprised at the Tardyness of Gov- ernment, Time is Precious. - However if it's Possible to suppose the want of Energy in Penn- sylvania is such not to support its Dignity, I must beg for Imme- diate Information to Remove from a State of anarchy. and am in the mean time your Excellency's most obedient Humble Servant, DAVID MEAD. Directed, His Excellency the President and the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. DEPoSITION.—No. 1. Northum'd County Ss. Personally appeared before me, the subscriber, one of the Justices of the peace in and for said County, Charles Manrow, one of the Constables of Wioming, who being duly sworn doth depose and say, That Gangs of the Connecticut Party are daylay gowing through the Wioming Settlements distressing, the few Families yet in the place who are attached to Government, by Robing, Plundering and Turning them out of Doors in a most naked and Distressed situation, that yesterday was a day set for all those People who had not actually been Throwed out of Doors by Violence, to be goan that they had Received the Last notice without Distress. That on the Twenty Second Instant, Six of them came to the Hous of this Deponant at about the sun Setting, and Turned his Family all out of Doors, Throwed his goods all out and Considerable part broke to pieces, Took his Grain, meet, salt, and many other things, that his Children had no Shoes, and little Cloathing, Thretning if they Return into the Hous, they would burn it down with them in it, when this deponant asked the officer of the party, what authority he had for such Conduct who Produced his Precept Signed Ebenezer Johnson their Col. or Commanding Officer, and one of their Com- mittee, who acts in Consequence of his authority from the Con- necticut Claimants, Delegated him at their General Meetings, and further sayth not. - his CHARLES $4 MANROW. mark. me, March 24th, 1785. Sworn & Subscribed before DAVID MEAD.
Page 709
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, 709 § DEPOSITION.—No. 2. Northumberland County Ss. Personally appeared before me the subscriber one of the Justices of the peace in and for said County, Samuel Kerr, who being duly sworn doth depose and say, That, small Companies of the Con- necticut Party, are Dayly Stroaling through the Wioming settle- ments, Ravaging the few Families yet in it, who are any way attached to Government, that many of them after being Plundered of the most of their Effects, have been Turned almost naked out of Doors, and their Houses been pulled down, others Thretned if they Returned into their Houses, that they should be burnt down over their heads, That on the Twenty Third Instant, a Party of Six Men came armed into the Hous of this Deponant, Ordering him and Family Immediately to be goan, who asked the Officer of the party, what authority he had for such Conduct, who Produced an Order in writing, signed Ebenezer Johnson, who is the Col. or Com- manding Officer of the Connecticut Claimants, and is a Member of their Committee, Elected at a General Meeting of those Claimants, &c., and Further sayth not. SAMUEL KARR. me, March 25th, 1785. Sworn & Subscribed before - DAVID MEAD. } DEPosition.—No. 3. Northumberland County Ss. Personally appeared before me the subscriber one of the Justices of the peace in and for said County, Daniel Swarts, who being duly sworn doth depose and say, that on the Twenty Second Instant a Gang of Twelve of the Connecticut Claimants came to the house of this Deponant with arms Thretning the Family so that his wife is in a situation, that her life is almost despaired of, ordering them Immediately out of Doors, That he has been Plundered of the most of his Effects so that his Family is almost naked, himself much beat and abused and halled out of Doors by the hare of his head, when the Deponant asked what authority they had for their Proceedings, when the Officer of the Party Produced his Precept Issued by Ebenezer Johnson, their Commanding officer, and one of their Committee, Chosen by said Claimants at their General Meeting, and further saith not. DANIEL SWART. Sworn & subscribed before me, March 25th, 1785. - ** DAVID MEAD.
Page 710
710 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. DEPOSITION.—No. 4. Northum'd County Ss. Personally appeared before me, the subscriber, one of the Justices of the peace in and for said County, John Cartright, who being duly sworn doth depose and say, that on the Twenty Eighth Instant a Gang of the Connecticut Party Came to his hous and Robed his Family of his Cow, and also Took what little hay and oats he had, and them Carried away, also, have ordered him to be goan in Three Days, or all his Effects shou’d be made a prise of, and further saith not. his JOHN >4 CARTRIGHT. mark. me, March 30th, 1785. Sworn & subscribed before DAVID ...} - RESOLUTION OF GENERAL Assembly—RIVER DELAWARE, 1785. State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly, Thursday, March 31st, 1785–A. M. The Report of the Committee read March 26th on the petitions of divers inhabitants of the Counties of Bucks and Northampton, was read the second time, whereupon Resolved, That the Commissioners appointed by this State to ascertain the Islands in the River Delaware (in conjunction with those appointed by the State of New Jersey) be authorized and instructed to examine the said River and its navigable branches in this State, in regard to the navigation of them, as far up as the Cush- hicton Mountain, and make report to this House of the practicability and expence that may occur in improving the same; and further, that the Supreme Executive Council be desired to inform the Gov- ernor of New Jersey of this resolution. Extract from the Minutes. SAM’L BRYAN, Clerk of the General Assembly. Resolution of GENERAL AssEMBLY-BoundARY N. Y., 1785. State of Pennsylvania.—In General Assembly, Thursday, March 31, 1785, A. M. The motion read yesterday was read the second time and adopted as follows, (viz.:) - Whereas, it appears by documents and papers laid before this General Assembly, that the Legislature of the State of New York
Page 711
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 711 have by law provided for the rthing out, marking and ascertaining the boundary line between the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the State of New York, so that the same may be the fixed and permanent line of jurisdiction between the said States. Resolved, that the resolution of the fifteenth day of September, 1783, for appointing Commissioners for certain purposes therein mentioned and the resolution of the eighteenth day of February last,” for enlarging the powers of the Commissioners appointed in pursu- ance of the said resolve of the fifteenth day of September aforesaid, so as to enable them to run out and mark a temporary line of juris- diction between this State and the State of New York, be, and the same hereby are, rescinded and made null and void. Resolved, that the Executive Council be, and the said Council is hereby empowered to draw orders on the Treasurer of this State for the payment of such sum or sums of money as shall appear to be due to each of the said Commissioners for any services due or expences borne by them, or either of them, under their appointment as aforesaid. Extract from the Minutes. J. SHALLUS, Ass’t Clerk of the General Assembly. SECRETARY ARMSTRONG To AssEMBLY, 1785. In Council, 4th April, 1785. A letter from David Mead, Esq., with its enclosures, was read, & an order taken that they be transmitted to the Hon. The Gen. Assembly. Extract from the Minutes. JOHN ARMSTRONG, Sec'y. Directed, Hon’ble John Bayard, Esquire, speaker of the General Assembly REsolution of GENERAL AssEMBLY.—DUTIES, 1785. State of Pennsylvania, In General Assembly. Friday April 8th, 1785, A. M. A Member presented to the Chair a motion which was read, and the same being considered, was adopted as follows, viz. Whereas it appears by the Report of a Committee of this House, that large sums of money remain due to the State, on Bonds taken by the Collector of the Customs, which by the tenor and condition of the said Bonds respectively became due and payable at various periods now past. * See page 412.

Page 712
712 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. And Whereas it is requisite and necessary that such arrearages should be speedily paid and collected in order to answer the several demands charged upon the same. Resolved, That the Supreme Executive Council be and they are hereby desired to order the said Collector to use his utmost diligence to obtain payment of all the said arrearages, and if any of the said arrearages now due, shall remain unpaid on the first day of June next, that the said Collector be directed forthwith to put the Bonds on which such monies shall be so due into the hands of the Attorney General to be prosecuted upon, without delay or respect of persons. Extract from the Minutes, SAM'L BRYAN, Clerk of the Gen'l Assembly. CHAs. WANcouvBR To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Sir, I take the liberty of troubling you with the Conditions of a work now in great forwardness, and intended for speedy publication. Should it meet with your approbation the favour of 3. encourage- ment and patronage will be gratefully acknowledged by him who is with the greatest - respect Sir, your much obliged obedient Servant, CHARLES WANCOUVER. Philadelphia, 21st April, 1785. - Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson, Esqr. WM. BRADFORD, JR. To PREs. DICKINson, 1785. Third Street, April 25th, 1785. Sir, I beg leave to inform your Excellency and the Council that the trial of the Ejectment brought by the Children of Andrew Allen for the recovery of a tract of Land commonly called the big spring tract, will come on at Reading, on the 24th of next month. In this cause the Commonwealth is the real defendant; the Land in controversy hav’g been seized as the property of Andrew Allen, who stands at- tainted by act of Assambly, & sold by Agents for forfeited Estates. Accordingly the Council undertook the defence and retained Mr. Reed with me to conduct it. His absence from the State prevented an early trial, and his death has deprived the state of his scrvices
Page 713
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 713 As the plaintiffs have retained wery eminent Counsel on their part, I would submit to your Excellency and the Council the propriety of supplying the place of Mr. Reed with some other Gentleman of the Law. The value of the Land in controversy is very considerable & the cause involves in it questions of importance. On the trial of this Cause the testimony of Mr. Trimble on the part of the State will be necessary to the defence. I must request that Council will dispence with his absence a few days on that Occassion. I would also take the Liberty of reminding your Excellency of my application for information respecting the charges against Amos Williams who was apprehended under a proclamation issued by Council. It will be necessary to proceed against him in the ordi- nary Course of Justice at the next Court of Oyer & Terminer, or he will be intitled to his discharge. I beg your Excell’y & the Council will be pleased to favor me with a draught upon the Treasurer for £100 on account of my salary as Attorney General, being less than is due to me on that account. I must also request to be favored with any papers in the posses- sion of Council, respecting the misconduct of the Judges of the Lancaster Election, which may be of service in the prosecution which I have been directed by the State to commence against them. I shall leave Philadelphia on that business about the 5th of next month. I have the honor to be, with sentiments of the most perfect respect your Excell’y most Obed’t Serv't, WM. BRADFORD, Ja. Directed, To His Excell’y John Dickinson. Proposals for BUILDING THE PIERs AT MARcus Hook, 1785. The Proposals for Building the Peirs at Marcus Hook As Follows. First.—One Peer to be sunk opposite Robert Moulders Wharf sixty feet long by twenty six feet wide at the Top, the space left between St & Sd. Moulders Wharf forty feet Sleepers to laid over this space and Planked with White Oak Plank of Two Inches & a half Thick, Second.—One other Peer to be sunk opposite the above Peer at the Distance of Thirty Feet, Seventy feet long & Thirty feet wide at the Top, sleepers to be laid over as above & Planked &c. Third.—Two Peers to be sunk opposite William Burns's wharf being of Equal Dimentions In length Breadth and Distances or space between them likewise Sleepered &c., Plank'd as the Peers above mentioned. *
Page 714
º 714 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Fourth.-An addition to be made to Robert Moulders Wharf of Ten feet wide on the South side Extending to the front of said wharf. Fifth–The whole work to be compleately Finished in a work- manlike manner with the three upper Rounds of Hearte Pine or White oak Logs. And, I Do Engage to find Every of the Materials, Timber, Iron Work, Stone & filling, Workmanship &c., &c., also to Compleate the four Peers so as to be ready for the Reception & Covering of the Shipping the Ensuing winter. I Likewise shall & will make suitable and proper Exertions according to time for to Compleat the whole if Possible, For the sum of Four Thousand and one hundred Pounds Specie, To be paid in the following Manner— Seven hundred & fifty Pounds Down, one Thousand Pounds when the two first Peers are sunk, also one Thousand Pounds at Sinking the two Last Peers, The sum of Five hundred Pounds when the four Peers are Rais'd above high water & proportionally fill'd, Five Hundred Pounds more when the Sd. Peers are Compleated & the Sum of three hundred & fifty Pounds when the whole work is Finished. THOMAS DAVIS. AGREEMENT. Philadelphia, ss. In Consideration of an order this Day drawn by The Supreme Executive Council upon the Treasurer of the State payable to the Wardens of the City in my favor. I Thomas Davis do hereby agree with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to build & erect the Peers mentioned in the other parts of this paper in the Manner therein mentioned and according to the Platt which I have this day signed. The piers to be so far carried on & made this Spring as to be sufficient for receiving & protecting the Shipping next winter and the whole work to be compleated on or before the first Day of September 1786. Witness my Hand & Seal this seventh Day of May 1785. THOMAS DAVIS. Witnesses. John ARMSTRONG, jr., JAMES TRIMBLE.
Page 715
PENNSYLVANIA, ARCHIVES 1785. 715 SHARP DELANY TO PREs. Dickinson, 1785. Custom House, 7th June, 1785 Sir, - I beg you may inform The Honourable the Supreme Executive Council, That in obedience to Their order of the 13th of April last applicatien was personally made and notices as inclosed delivered to each person indebted for duties.* That the resolutions of the House as transferred by order of the 13th May, I had inserted in the different newspapers. That considerable sums have been paid in, yet many persons are in arrear, a list of whom, The Clerks are now drawing for the in- spection of Council. - Many promises to pay in a few days, complaining they cannot receive their interest as the . Continental Loan cer is not yet supplied with Cash sufficient and the great scarcity of money is made the General Excuse. I request the further directions of the Honourable Council. And am Sir, with Respect, your obedient humble Servant, SHARP DELANY, Collr. Directed, Genl. Armstrong, Secretary of The Honble. The Supreme Exe- cutive Council. DELEGATES IN CoNGREss To PREs. DickINson, 1785. New York, 17th Aug. 1785. Sir, We have the Honor to transmit to your Excellency the Report of the Secretary for foreign Affairs on the subject of the Complaint of Mr. Thomas Shields which your Excellency was pleased to trans- mit to us. Previously to our laying this Complaint before Congress, we took occasion to communicate the same to Mr. Gardoqui in a private way. He assured us of his Desire to be Instrumental in correcting the abuse complained of, but that he could not interfere in the Business, unless it should come to him officially. We therefore conceived it to be our Duty to lay the Papers before Congress, who * See page 711. * º t .
End of Section 221. Continue to next section or 
Section 222
Page 716
716 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. were pleased to refer them to the Secretary for foreign affairs to take order, - We have the Honor to be, with great Respect, your Excellency, most obedient & most humble Servants, DAVID JACKSON, CHA. PETTIT. Directed, His Excellency John Dickinson Esquire, President of the State of Pennsylvania. Free C. Pettit. RESOLUTION OF CoNGREss—WYOMING, 1785. By the United States, in Congress assembled: September 21, 1785. Whereas, the petition of Zebulon Butler and others claiming pri- vate right of soil under the State of Connecticut and within the Jurisdiction of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, doth not de- scribe with sufficient certainty the tract of Land claimed by the said Zebulon Butler and others, nor particularly name the private adverse claims under grants from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Resolved, That the Resolutions of Congress of the 23d day of January, 1784, relative to the claim of Zebulon Butler and others, be and are hereby repealed. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. PETITION of AARON DOANE, 1785. To His Excellency the President & the Hon’ble the Supreme Exec- utive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania: The Petition of Aaron Doane, a languishing Prisoner in the Jail of the City & County of Philadelphia, Most humbly sheweth, That your Petitioner unfortunately fell under the Suspicion of this Hon’ble Board as being an Accomplice in the Robbery of the Treasurer of Bucks County in the year 1781, or thereabouts, for which supposed Crime he was called on by a Proclamation of this Honorable Board to surrender himself a Prisoner & undergo his Trial for the same. That not being welladvised he neglected so to do whereby he became outlaw'd or attainted & with several others was afterwards apprehended & brought before the Hon’ble the Supreme
Page 717
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 717 Court & asked what he had to say why Judgment of Death should not pass upon upon him; that having unadviseadly suffered his Time prescribed to expire without a surrender of his Person, his Innocence of the Fact stood him in no stead & not being able to deny that he was the Person proscribed under his Name Judgment of Death was accordingly passed on him & he has remained now in Jail under a heavy Load of Irons upwards of fifteen months. Your Petitioner most solemnly declares his Innocence of the said Fact & his utter Ignorance of the Time, manner & Persons who committed the said Robbery except from Information he has had since his Confinement, and for the Truth of this Declaration he appeals to the Confession of Robert Johnson Steel one of the Persons who actually was Guilty & has been pardoned, who declared before his Honor the Chief Justice & is now ready to repeat it before this Hon'ble Board that your Petitioner was not party nor privy to the s" Robbery. Your Petitioner therefore most humbly prays that this Hon’ble Board will be pleas'd to take his Case into their Consideration & extend their Clemency to him, inasmuch as so long & grievous an Imprisonent may justly be deemed a sufficient attonement for his Negligence or Contempt of the Laws of his Country for which he most heartily begs Pardon. And your Petitioner will ever pray, &c., AARON DOANE.” Philad’a Jail, Nov. 8th, 1785. PETITION IN FAvoR of AARON DoANE, 1785. To His Excellency, the President & Honourable Council of the State of Pennsylvania. Honored Gentlemen, Having lately received Information that a Certain Aaron Doane is under sentence confined in the Goal of Philadelphia, on suspicion of being in Connection with those who robb'd the Treasury in Bucks County in the year 1781, We the undersigned do hereby solemnly declare that the said Aaron Doane was with us for six weeks before the robery was Committed under Confinementin the Custody of Mr. John Ridgeway in New York & he is realy Inocent of the Charge alledg'd against him on that head, but to say anything farther of him we cannot pretend as we have no knowledge of him or his pro- ceedings untill that he was with us Confined, but if he his not set at Liberty before this comes to hand we hope your honours will * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 888–893. Vol. X. —31
End of Section 222. Continue to next section or 
Section 223
Page 718
718 PENNSYWLANIA ARCHIVES 1785. show him Lenity, remaining with humble respect to your honour- able board, we are your honours very humble servts., JNo. Jon Es, JAMEs KNIGHT, THOMAS GROVER, RoBERT CLAY, his WM. * Thomas WILLIAM MoRRISON. IIlark. ADAM ROPER, Halifax, Nova Scotia, 30th Dec’r, 1785. I Do Certify that the above is real as witness my Hand. J. RIDGWAY, PETITION RESPECTING A RoAD IN N. L., 1773. To the Honourable Richard Penn, Esquire, Lieutenant Governor, &c., and the Council of the Province of Pennsylvania. The Petition of divers Inhabitants of the City and County of Philadelphia Respectfully sheweth, That in pursuance of an Order of the Governor and Council a Road hath been lately laid out from the Southernmost line of Land belonging to the Estate of William Masters, Esq., Deceased, to the Germantown Road; that the same is well made and will soon be opened for the Use of the Public. That the old Public Road, laid out upwards of Sixty years ago, from Fourth Street to the place where the said new Road begins, is very much out of Repair, and that the Supervisors of the Highway $. your Petitioners are informed) would have repaired it, if the ences had been placed agreeable to the Courses of the said Road, but some of them stand very Irregular, as appears by a Draught hereunto annexed,” in which the dotted lines represent the Courses of the Road and the black lines the Fences as they now stand. That the said Old Road cannot be properly repaired until the Fences are made agreeable to the Courses thereof, and as the Owners of Land bounded by the said Road may differ in sentiments respecting the said Courses, Your Petitioners Pray the Board will be pleased to appoint Men to review the said Road and ascertain the Courses thereof. And that the Supervisors of the Highway for the Northern Liberties may be ordered to alter the Fences in such manner as the said men, so to be appointed, shall direct. Or that the Board will be pleased to take such other Measures as to them shall seem meet, * The plan here referred to is attached to this document, but cannot well be introduced.
Page 719
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 719 for securing to the Public the free and full use of the said Road, Sixty feet wide, as it was originally laid out. Edw. Penington, Thomas Moore, Sam. Hopkins, Leon. Snowdon, Chas. Moore, John Bayard, Wm. Shippen, Jacob Barge, William Pusey, John Odenheimer, Jos. Howell, Plun. Fleeson, Jno. Kaighne, Thos. Lawrence, Sam. Mifflin, Joshua Howell, George Wescott, Peter Dehaven, William Robinson, Willing Hall, Reynold Keen, Uriah Woolman, Rob. Erwin, Richard Jones, G. G. Whelpper, Jesse Maris, Benj. Shoemaker, Nath. Falconer, George Reinhart, Joseph Watkins, John Thomson, Christ" Lehman, Samuel Robeson, John Graff, Abraham Carlile, Edward Simmons, John Zeller, Rich. Edwards, Sam. Sansom, Jr., Fran. Wade, John Chevalier, David Potts, Daniel Montgome Warwick §: ry, Jere. Warder, Joshua Emlen, Joseph Swift, James Riddle, June 1st, 1778.* * George Mifflin, Jo. Hillborn, ... • Tho. Mifflin, - Tho. Wharton, we William Fisher, wº Henry Drinker, - Dan. Benezet, R. Strettell Jones, Tho. Paschall, Wm. Henry, Hugh Roberts, Wm. Coats, Jr., John Parrish, Sam. Preston Moore, Sam. Burge, Thos. Say, John Parroat, Wm. Wishart, Davis Bassett, Jno. Haworth, John Coats, Isaac Coats, Charles Meredith. CoL. HuBLEY To PREs. REED, 1779. Fort Sullivan, on Tioga branch, Sir, August 24th, 1779. The present opportunity offering, I could not ommit writing to your Excellency in behalf of my officers respecting their Commissions.t The arrangement was transmitted to your Excellency by Gen'l Sullivan some time since. As it was mutually agreed to by the Gentlemen of the Regiment, I make no doubt it has met with your Excellency's & the Hon. Body over which you preside, approbation. Doctor Rogers, the bearer hereof, will return to us immediately again; I beg you will please to forward the Commiesions by him, which will be most particularly acknowledged by the Gentlemen. Since my last (from this place) nothing material happened, ex- cepting the arrival of Genl. Clinton from Otsago, situate on the Head waters of Susquehannah, w about 1400 effective men. Since the forming the junction, the Army received orders to hold them- * See Col. Rec, Vol. X., p. 87. Men were appointed to review it. # See Wol. VII., p. 667.
Page 720
720 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES -1785. selves in readiness for a march on to-morrow morning—to be pro- vided with 30 days's provisions. The want of this Article, together w" with the want of cloathing, &c., I presume is the cause of our making so short an Excursion (30 days) thro' the Indian Country. Its judged, as very few of the Savages are seen near this place, they are gathering in some part of their Country, and may probably give us some opposition. Since our arrival here we have erected a Fort, (Fort Sullivan.) A garrison of 250 men will be left during our excursion thro’ the Seneca Country. For further news, I beg leave to refer your Excellency to the Doctor, who will be able to give you a very particular account of the situation of affairs in this quarter. My officers and men, who were wounded in the action of the 13th, at Chemung, are all likely to do well.” I am, with the greatest respect, Your Excelly's most obdt serv't, AD'M HUBLEY, Lt. Col. Com’t - 11 P. Reg't. Directed, His Excellency Joseph Reed, Esqr., Presid’t of the State of Penna., Philadelphia. Favord tº Dav'd Rogers. REv. JAMEs SPROAT To CouncIL, 1780. To the Hon'ble Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, By a resolve of Congress, November 26, 1779,-Cloathing was granted for officers in the medical staff, and being signed by the Director Genl., such cloathing should be delivered, either by the clothier gen'l or any sub-clothier in the State in which the officer to receive cloathing shall reside. - And whereas the sub-clothier of this State, cannot issue any cloathing withont an order from your hon’ble Board, it is earnestly desired that your Hon’r would issue an order to the sub-clothier of this State, to deliver such cloathing as is specified by resolve of Congress, to me. JAMES SPROAT, G. H. Chap. Philad'a, March 6th, 1780. * See Vol. VII., p. 667.
Page 721
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 721 f ARRANGEMENT of THE PENNSYLVANIA LINE, JANUARY 17, 1781. General Officers in actual service at the time of this arrangement. Major General. Arthur St. Clair, Anthony Wayne William Irvine, y Commissioned, Feb. 19, 1777 Brigadier Generals. Feb. 21, 1777 May 12, 1779 N.B. The Arrangement of the Artillery not having come to hand, is necessarily omitted. Regiment of Cavalry annexed to the line of this.State. Colonel. Stephen Moylan, Jan. 8, 1777 [claims rank by Brevet, from June 5, 1776 Lieutenant Colonel. Benjamin Temple, March 31, 1777 Major. More Fauntleroy, August 1, 1779 Captains. 1 David Hopkins, Jan. 21, 1777 2 John Heard, Feb. 8 1778 3 John Craig, Dec. 22, 1778 4 Zeb. Pike, Dec. 25, 1778 5 Larken Smith, August 1, 1779 6 Henry Willis, Dec 22, 1780 Lieutenants. 1 Erasmus Gill, 2 Thomas Overton, Dec. 25, 1778 July 1, 1779 3 Laurence Trant, Oct. 1, 1779 4 John Sullivan, Oct. 1, 1779 5 Jonah Hallet, Oct. 2, 1779 Lieutenant and Surgeon. Thomas H. M’Calla, Surgeon's Mate. Joseph Thompson, Riding Master. William Thompson, STEPHEN MOYLAN, Col. Com. L. D. . Philadelphia, Jan. 25, 1781, * See Wol. IX., p. 725, for a return of the officers of this line Jan. 1, 1783. * *
End of Section 223. Continue to next section or 
Section 224
Page 722
722. PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Daniel Broadhead, Thomas Robinson, Major James Moore, 1 John Davis (of the 9th,) 2 John Clark (of the 8th,) 3 William Wilson, 4 Jacob Stake (of the 10th,) 5 David Zeigler, 6 John Steel (of the 10th,) 7 Ebenezer Carson (of the 10th,) 8 John McClellan, 9 Edward Burke (of the 11th,) SUBALTERNs. 1 William Feltman (of the 10th,) 2 James McFarland, 3 William McDowell, 4 Edward Crawford, 5 Joseph Banks (of the 10th,) 6 David Hammond, 7 Andrew Johnston, 8 Joseph Collier, 9 Francis White (of the 10th,) 10 Robert Martin, 11 Michael Everly, 12 James Campbell, 13 Robert Nesbit, (of the 10th) 14 James Brooks, John Rogers, FIRST REGIMENT. Lieutenant-Colonel. Surgeon's Mate. John Rague (of the 10th) Commissioned Sep. 29, 1776 June 7, 1777 Septem. 20, 1777 Novem. 15, 1776 Feb. 28, 1777 March 2, 1777 Nov. 12, 1777 Dec. 8, 1778 March 23, 1779 April 1, 1779 October, 1, 1779 October 2, 1780 Nov. 2, 1777 March 21, 1778 March 22, 1778 March 23, 1778 June 2, 1778 Dec. 8, 1778 May 12, 1779 May 17, 1779 August 2, 1779 April 1, 1780 ditto. July 11, 1780 Sept. 15, 1780 Sept. 15, 1780 August 19, 1778
End of Section 224. Continue to next section or 
Section 225
Page 723
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785, 723 SECOND REGIMENT. Colonel. Walter Stewart, Lieutenant-Colonel. Caleb North (of the 9th,) Major. James Hamilton, Captains. 1 Joseph McClelland (of the 9th,) 2 John Bankson, 3 Samuel Tolbert, 4 John Patterson, 5 John Pearson (of the 9th,) 6 Joseph Finley (of the 8th,) Andrew Walker (of the 11th,) William Lusk (of the 7th,) Samuel Kennedy (of the 7th,) ; SUBALTERNs. Lieutenants. Henry Piercy, James Whitehead, James Morris Jones, William Moore, Enoch Reeves (of the 10th,) John Ward (of the 8th,) John Stricker, Henry D. Pursell, Ensigns. 9 William Murren, 19 John B. Tilden, 11 Antoine D. Marcellin, 12 George Le Roy, 13 Lieutenant John Stotsberry, Surgeon. Benjamin Perry, Surgeon's-Mate. Robert Harris, THIRD REGIMENT. Colonel. Thomas Craig, Commissioned, June, 17, 1777 October 23, 1777 Dec. 10, 1778 July 15, 1776 Sept. 25, 1776 October 2, 1776 Jan. 1, 1777 Sept. 7, 1777 October, 20, 1777 Jan. 23, 1778 May 12, 1779 April 17, 1780 March 12, 1777 March 12, 1777 March 12, 1777 April 10, 1777 March 1, 1778 April 2, 1779 May 1, 1779 Sept. 3, 1779 May 19, 1779 May 28, 1779 Sept. 21, 1779 Sept. 21, 1779 July 10, 1777 August 1, 1777 Commissioned, August 1, 1777
Page 724
724 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Lieutenant Colonel. Josiah Harmer, June 6, 1777 Majar. William Alexander, April 17, 1780 Captains. 1 James Christie, August 9, 1776 2 Isaac B. Dunn, October 4, 1776 3 Lawrence Keene, (of the 11th,) Jan. 12, 1777 4 George McCully, October 20, 1777 5 Abraham G. Claypoole, (of the 11th,) June 10, 1778 6 William Sproat, (of the 4th,) 7 John Henderson, May 12, 1779 8 John Marshall, August 13, 1779 9 Samuel Brady, (of the 8th,) August 2, 1779 - SUBALTERNs. Lieutenants. - 1 Daniel St. Clair, April 1, 1777 2 Percival Butler, Sept. 1, 1777 3 Blackall W. Ball, Sept. 11, 1778 4 Andrew Engle, Dec. 20, 1778 5 James Pettigrew (of the 11,) April 13, 1779 6 John Armstrong, May 12, 1779 7 Richard Fullerton, May 12, 1779 8 John Wigtoun, August 13, 1779 9 Peter, Smith, August 13, 1779 10 Jacob Whitzel (of the 11th) March 11, 1780 11 Robert Allison, (of the 11th, March 16, 1780 12 Francis Thornbury (of the 11th,) May 25, 1780 18 Samuel Read (of the 11th,) Oct. 2, 1780 - Ensign. 14 Peter Cunningham, July, 1, 1779 Surgeon. Alexander Stewart, October 16, 1779 Surgeon's-Mate. Robert Wharry, June 20, 1778 FourTH REGIMENT. Lieutenant-Colonel Commandant. William Butler, Commissioned Jan. 22, 1779 Majors. Frederick Vernon (of the 8th) June 7, 1777 Evan Edwards (of the 11th, ) Dec. 16, 1778
End of Section 225. Continue to next section or 
Section 226
Page 725
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. Captains. 1 Benjamin Fishbourn, * * 2 John Alexander, (of the 7th, ) " ' 8 Alexander Parker (of the 7th,) 4 Samuel Montgomery (of the 7th) 5 Andrew Irvine (of the 7th,) 6 James Carnahan (of the 8th,) 7 Henry, Becker, 8 William Henderson, 9 Thomas Campbell, SUBALTERNs. Lieutenants. I Samuel Brison (of the 7th,) 2 James M'Michael (of the 7th,) 3 Garret Stidiford, 4 George Blewer, 5 Ercurius Beatty, 6 Peter Summers, 7 George Ross, 8 Robert Pebles (of the 7th,) 9 James Millegan (of the 7th,) 10 John McCullam (of the 7th,) 11 John Hughes (of the 7th,) 12 Wilder Bevins, 13 John Pratt, 14 Henry Henly, Ensign. 15 Andrew Henderson, Surgeon. William Magaw, - Surgeon's-Mate. John Wilkin, FIFTH REGIMENT. Colonel. Richard Butler, Lieutenant-Colonel. Francis Mentges, Major. Thomas Ld. Moore, Jan. 3, 1777 March 20, 1777 March, 20, 1777 ditto. ditto. . April 18, 1777 ay 15, 1778 May 16, 1778 Jan. 1, 1781 March 20, 1777 June, 20, 1777 October 12, 177 May 16, 1778 June 2, 1778 June 2, 1778 June 4, 1778 April 15, 1779 April 16, 1779 ditto. April 25, 1779 May 11, 1779 Jany. 1, 1780.* July 4, 1779 June 15, 1775 Commissioned June 7, 1777 October 9, 1778 May 12, 1779 * This date is written and not printed as the rest are. 3
Page 726
726 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 1 Thomas B. Bowen, Captains. (of the 9th) 2 Benjamin Bartholomew, 3 John Christie, 4 Samuel Smith, 5 Isaac Seely, – 6 Thomas Boude, 7 John Finley, , 8 Job Vernon. 9 William Wanlear, 1 Levi Griffith, 2 John Harper, 8 George North, 4 James M’Cullough, 5 Andrew Lyttle, 6 John M'Kinney, 7 David Marshall, 8 Ephraim Douglas, 9 Edward Rutter, 10 John Bigham, 11 Abner M. Dunn, 12 Benjamin Marshall, 13 Llewellyn Davie 14 Nathaniel Smith, 15 David M'Knight, 16 James Gilchrist, 17 Joseph Irwin, 18. Joseph Reed, James Davidson, Richard Allison, Richard Humpton, Stephen Bayard, . (of the 8th) (of the 9th) SUBALTERNs. Lieutenants. (of the 9th) § the 9th) (of the 9th) (of the 9th) (of the 9th) (of the 9th) (of the 9th) Ensigns. Surgeon. Surgeon's Mate. SIXTH REGIMENT. Colonel. Commissioned Lieutenant-Colonel. Sept. 2, 1776 Oct. 2, 1776 Oct. 23, 1776 March 1, 1777 Sept. 20, 1777 Sept. 23, 1777 Oct. 22, 1777 June 13, 1779 Oct. 10, 1779 Jan. 1, 1777 ditto ditto ditto Jan. 20, 1777 March 18, 1778 Nov. 5, 1778 Jan. 20, 1779 Jan. 28, 1779 Feb. 1, 1779 May 31, 1779 June 13, 1779 August 10, 1779 ditto ditto July 1, 1779 July 20, 1780 July 20, 1780 April 5, 1777 March 16, 1778 October 1, 1776 Sept. 23, 1777
Page 727
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES. 1785. 727 * Major. James Grier, * * Captains. 1 John Doyle, 2 Walter Finney, 3 Robert Wilkin, 4 George Bush, (of the 11th) 5 Jacob Humphrey, 6 Jacob Bowie, , 7 John Crawford, (of the 8th) 8 Robert Patton, (of the 10th) 9 Jeremiah Jackson, (of the 11th) SUBALTERNs. Lieutenants. 1 Edward Hovenden, 2 James Gibbons, (Captain Brevett) 3 James Glentworth, 4 Benjamin Lodge, 5 Stewart Herbert, 6 John Mahon (of the 11th) 7 James F. M'Pherson, 8 Samuel Morrison, (of the 11th) 9 Thomas Doyle, 10 John Macleland, 11 William Huston, Second Lieutenant. 12 Edward Spear, Ensigns. 18 Thomas Dungan, 14 Sanky Dixon, 15 16 Jo John Humphrey, John Vancourt, (of the 10th) Surgeon. hn M’Dowell, Surgeon's Mate. Ezekial Downey, October 23, 1777 July 16, 1776 August 10, 1776 October 10, 1776 Jan. 13, 1777 Feb. 15, 1777 ditto August 10, 1779 March 1, 1780 March 16, 1780 Feb. 15, 1777 ditto ditto October 11, 1777 Jan. 9, 1778 June 1, 1778 Jan. 15, 1779 Feb. 13, 1779 March 15, 1779 July 1, 1779 Feb. 24, 1780 Feb. 7, 1778 June 2, 1778 August 25, 1779 ditto Sept. 15, 1780 Feb. 5, 1778 Sep. 11, 1780 I do Certify, that the foregoing List of Officers, is the manner in which they are Arranged in the Six Regiments of Infantry, belonging
Page 728
728 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. to the State of Pennsylvania; together with their Rank and Dates of Commissions. - ' ' ' ' Given at Trenton, this 20th day of January, 1781. - ANTHONY WAYNE, B. G. PLAN AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR RECRUITING THE PENNSYL- VANIA LINE. Philadelphia, January 22, 1781. First, There are to be seven places of Regimental rendezvous, viz., The regiment of artillery, at Newtown, The First regiment of infantry, at Yorktown, Second do. - at Yellowsprings, Third do. at Easton, Fourth do. at Carlisle, Fifth do. at Reading, Sixth do. at Lebanon. Philadelphia not to be a regimental rendezvous for any regiment, but open to recruiting parties, under the direction of Colonel Nichola; and the recruiting at the regimental rendezvous to be under the direction of the commanding field officer present. A field officer of each regiment to reside at the regimental rendezvous, which is to be the quarters of the officers of the regiments, and in which the recruits are to collect; and from which parties are to march, as the regiment fills, to the division or brigade rendezvous, appointed by General Washington, or the commanding officer of the line. At which place another field officer is to attend, to receive the parties as they arrive. Secondly, The bounty money to be deposited in the hands of some civil magistrate, or other person appointed by the President or Vice President in Council, at such places as they may direct, who is to make payment to every recruit brought or sent to him by any officer, and take his receipt therefor; his inlistment being first duly signed, and his attestation taken, according to the form herein- after prescribed. And in order to avoid cause of future complaint, every recruit to sign a duplicate inlistment, receipt, and attestation; of which, one is to be forwarded to the President or Vice President in Council, the other to remain with the commanding officer of the regiment, to which such soldier shall belong. Thirdly, For the sake of recruiting each of the Regiments with impartiality at Philadelphia, Col. Nichola to engage as many of the old soldiers as are willing to enlist, in the following manner, viz. They are to inlist in the Pennsylvania Line, and at the time of attes- tation, the recruit to chose the regiment in which he will serve, to some officer of which regiment, Colonel Nichola is to deliver him as
Page 729
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES -1785. 729 soon as attested, and when the number of Recruits in any regiment amounts to twenty-five, they are to be marched out of town to the regimental rendezvous, and not to return again, but by special leave, on pain of being taken up and punished as deserters. Fourthly, Those who are continued in the service, and those who shall now reinlist, shall be first settled with for their arrears and depreciation, for which purpose the auditors will attend the regimental or division rendezvous, as shall be most convenient, or as the same shall be directed by the President or Vice-President in Council. Fifthly, The cloathing for the troops to be delivered in the fol- lowing manner, viz. To those who have continued in the service, or who shall now reinlist at the regimental or division rendezvous, as the President or Vice-President in Council shall direct; the time of delivery, to be as speedy as possible, and not exceed the fifteenth of March. In recruiting the said regiments, the officers are strictly to conform to the following instructions, and to be answerable out of their own pay, for any loss the public may sustain, by breach of any, or either of them. Firstly, You are not to inlist, on any pretence, any deserters from the British army, or any soldier now belonging to any regiment, troop or company in the service of the United States. Secondly, You are carefully to examine every recruit, before he receives his bounty money, to see that he has no rupture, lameness, or disorder, that may render him incapable of doing soldiers duty. Thirdly, When such recruits shall have engaged, you are to take or send him to one of the Justices of the peace, hereinafter men- tioned, who finding him to be sober, and having read to him the form of the inlistment, receipt and attestation, is to cause such recruit to sign the said inlistment, and receipt, and then to administer to him the oath hereinafter mentioned, which attestation, inlistment, and receipt, the justice shall witness, and also to cause duplicates to be signed, which he shall deliver to the officer before mentioned, and send the originals to the Supreme Executive Council, as before directed. - - Fourthly, As an encouragement to such recruit immediately to inlist, he shall, over and above the pay and rations allowed by Con- ress, be entitled to a bounty of nine pounds state money:—one third thereof to be paid at the time of his attestation; one third within one month after, and the remainder on the first of May; to one suit of regimentals annually, three shirts, four pair of shoes, one hat, two pair of overalls, and 200 acres of land, at the expiration of the war. - Fifthly, (Forms of enlistments and º Sirthly, The officer engaging any discharged soldier as a recruit, and the justice attesting him, to cause his discharge to be delivered up and destroyed, and no furlough to be allowed any soldier, until he arrives at the regimental rendezvous.
Page 730
730 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. * Seventhly, Every officer appointed to that service by the com- manding officer of the regiment, engaging a recruit, and causing him to be duly attested before any one of the justices before mentioned, shall be entitled to two dollars specie or state money, as levy money, Recruits engaged in Philadelphia under Col. Nichola's direction, always excepted. Eighthly, As commissaries are established at the several places of rendezvous, where the recruting and attesting the men will be principally performed, there will be no allowance for subsistance money, but the officers and men provided with rations, as usual. Ninthly, To prevent impositions, by recruits inlisting in different regiments—in case any recruit shall desert after being attested, advertisements describing such recruit to be immediately sent to the several places of rendezvous, and put up in the most public places of the county, offering the reward allowed by the Act of Assembly, viz., Twenty shillings in specie, to be paid by Colonel Nichola, at Philadelphia, or either of the above justices elswhere, and the law to be put in force against all those harbouring them, by which such offender is liable to a fine of five pounds specie for every offence, to be recovered before any justice of the peace. JOSEPH REED, President.* Gov. LIVINGston, of NEw JERSEY, To V. P. MooRE, 1782. - Trenton, 27 April, 1782. Sir, Since I had the honour of writing to your Excellency yesterdayf concerning Capt. White, I have received a Return of the Prisoners taken by Capt. Hyler, among whom Robert White is one & returned as Captain of the Cutter, & I have authentic proof that he is the very man whom you want. But unfortunately, all those Prisoners were immediately sent on by Capt. Hyler to the Comis- sary of . Prisoners at Elizabethtown, and (the Enemy having greatly the advantage of us in the number of marine Prisoners) immediately sent to New York for exchange. I have the honour to be, with great respect and attachment, your Excellency's most obedient, & very humble Servant WIL, LIVINGSTON. Directed, His Excellency, William Moore, Esqr. * The foregoing list, &c., is taken from a small printed pamphletintended at the time probably for circulation among the officers. f See Vol. IX., p. 531. -
Page 731
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1785. 781 º *::: ** º º y MEMORIAL OF THE JEWISH CongBEGATION OF PHILADELPHIA, - 1782. We the President and Representatives of the Jewish Congre- tion in this city, humbly beg leave to approach his Excellency the #. his Honour the Vice President and the Honourable the Executive Council of the commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The congregation of Mikve Israel ſº in this city, having erected a place of publick worship which they intend to consecrate to the service of Almighty God to morrow afternoon and, As they have ever profess'd themselves liege subjects to the Sovereignty of the United States of America, and have always acted agreeable thereto, they Humbly Crave the Protection and Counte- nance of the Chief Magistrates in this State to give Sanction to their design, and will deem themselves º Honoured by their Presence in the Synagogue whenever they ju #. proper to favour them. The doors will be open'd at 8 o'clock and the service will con- tinue 'till seven. The uncertainty of the day of consecration was the sole cause of having delayed this matter ’till now, but earnestly hope it will not be thought too late. With Prayers to the God of Israel for the safety of the United States in General and this commonwealth in particular we are, Gentlemen, most Respectfully, and Most devotedly, In behalf of the congregation, JONAS PHILLIPS, President, MICHAEL GRATZ, SOL. MARACHE, SOLM. MYERS COHEN, SIMON NATHAN. Philadelphia, 12th September, 1782.* In dorsed, 1782, September 12th, from the President & others representing the Congregation of Jews in the City, their address to the President and Council, read in Council and order'd to be filed.t * The building, alluded to in the foregoing, was no doubt the first syna- gogue erected in this city—on Cherry street between Third and Fourth—and which in 1824, gave place to the present more spacious and elegant house of worship. There are now five synagogues in this city. f See Col. Rec., Vol. XIII., p. 367.

Page 732
732 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. REPORT OF SEC'y. To CoNGRESS ON REVENUE SystEM, 1786. By the United States in Congress assembled. January 2, 1786. Ordered, That the Secretary of Congress report the number of States which have complied in whole or in part with the revenue system of April 18, 1783;-the recommendation of Congress of the same date, for an alteration of the 8th of the articles of confederation; and the act of the 30th of April, 1784, recommending the vesting of certatn commercial powers in Congress. Office of Secretary of Congress, Jan. 4, 1786. In obedience to the orders of Congress, the Secretary of Congress report, - - That the revenue system of the 18th April, 1783, consists of two parts. First, a recommendation to the states to invest the United States in Congress assembled, with a power to levy for the use: of the United States, certain duties upon goods imported into the said states, from any foreign port, island or plantation, to be applied to the discharge of the interest and principal of the debts contracted on the faith of the United States, agreeable to the resolution of 16th December, 1782, and not to be continued for a longer term than twenty-five years. The collectors of the duty to be appointed by the states respectively, but when appointed, to be amenable to, and removable by the United States in Congress assembled alone. And in case any state shall not make such appointment within one month after notice given for that purpose, the appointment may be made by the United States in Congress assembled. With this part of the act, the following States have complied. New-Hampshire, by act of 1st and 2d January, 1784. Massachusetts, by do. 30th October, 1783. Connecticut, by do. May, 1784. New-Jersey, by do. 11th June, 1783. Pennsylvania, by do. 23d September, 1783. º Virginia, by do. October, 1783. ch. 31. . North-Carolina, by do. June, 1784. North-Carolina, by do. 21st March, 1784. Rhode-Island, in the session of their legislature, in the spring of 1785, passed an act for levying the duties pointed out by Congress, but have therein enacted, that the collectors shall be appointed by and amenable to their general assembly; and that, of the money arising from the duties, a certain sum, viz.: 8000 dollars, shall be appropriated in their treasury, for the payment of the interest of that states proportion of the foreign debt of the United States, and
Page 733
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 733 paid to the order of Congress; and that the surplus of the duties, and the amount of other taxes ordered by the said act, shall be appropriated to the payment of the interest of the internal debt of the United States due within that state. This act to take effect when the other States in the union agree to the said impost to the acceptation of Congress, and have provided other adequate funds for completing their quota of 1,500,000 dollars, according to the requisition of Congress, of the 18th of April, 1783; but with this proviso, and upon this express condition—“that no duties shall be collected upon articles imported into any state, upon which the said duties have been paid in any other state; and that no duty shall be imposed by any one state upon the citizens of another state, either upon imported articles having paid the duties as aforesaid, or upon any articles of the growth, produce or manufacture of the United States. The state of Maryland, in June, 1782, pursuant to acts of Con- gress of the 3d and 7th of February, 1781, passed “An act to authorise the United States in Congress assembled, to impose and levy a duty of five per cent on imported foreign goods, and on all prizes and prize goods, for the payment of the debts contracted by Congress during the war:”—And in the November session, 1784, their legislature passed a supplement to the aforementioned act, whereby it should take effect as soon as twelve states, including that state, vested Congress with similar powers; but it does not appear that they have passed an act pursuant to the recommendation of Congress of the 18th of April, 1783. Delaware, it is said, has passed an act conformable to the recom- mendation above mentioned; but no official information thereof has yet been transmitted to this office or to the board of treasury. The second part of the revenue system of the 18th of April, 1783, consists of a recommendation to the several states to establish, for a term limited to twenty-five years, and to appropriate to the discharge of the interest and principal of the debts contracted on the faith of the United States for supporting the war, substantial and effectual revenues, of such nature as they may judge most con- venient, for supplying their respective proportions of 1,500,000 dollars, annually, exclusive of the aforementioned duties. With this part of the act, the following states have complied. New-Jersey, by their act of 20th December, 1783. Pennsylvania, by do. September, 1783. North Carolina, by do. June, 1784. Rhode-Island, in the act above mentioned, has enacted, that a tax of one Spanish silver milled dollar upon every hundred acres of land within that state, upon every male poll in the state of twenty- one years of age, and upon every horse or mare of two years old and upwards, shall be annually laid, levied and collected, and that
Page 734
734 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. the amount thereof shall be appropriated to the payment of the interest of the internal debt of the United States, due within that state, with the proviso and on the express condition above set forth. The act of the 18th of April, 1783, also recommends to the states an alteration in the 8th of the articles of confederation and perpetual union, for ascertaining with more convenience and cer- tainty, the proportions to be supplied by the states respectivefully to the common treasury, and the several states are advised to authorise their respective delegates to subscribe and ratify the same, as part of the said instrument of union in the words therein mentioned. With this part of the act the following states have complied. Massachusetts, by their act of the 2d July, 1785. Connecticut, by do. May, 1783. New-York, by do. April, 1785. New-Jersey, by do. June, 1783. Pennsylvania, by do. Aug., 1783. Maryland, by do. Nov., 1784. Virginia, by do. May, 1784. North-Carolina, by do. June, 1784. By the act of the 30th of April, 1784, it is recommended to the legislatures of the several states, to vest the United States in Con- gress assembled, for the term of fifteen years, with the power— 1. To prohibit any goods, wares or merchandise from being im- ported into or exported from any of the states, in vessels belonging to or navigated by the subjects of any power with whom these states shall not have formed treaties of commerce. 2. To prohibit the subjects of any foreign state, kingdom or empire, unless authorised by treaty, from importing into the United States any goods, wares or merchandises which are not the produce or manufacture of the dominions of the sovereign whose subject they are. In Pursuance of this act, New-Hampshire has invested Congress, for fifteen years, with full power to regulate the trade of the United States, as they may judge best calculated to promote the weal and prosperity thereof, the fees, profits and emoluments arising from their regulations, to be appropriated to the sole use of discharging public debts. See act 22d June, 1785. Massachusetts has passed a law in the terms of the recommen- dation, 1st July, 1784.
Page 735
PENNSYLVANIA. ARCHIVES 1786. 785 g : : É. Rhode-Island has empowered their delegates to agree to and ratify any article empowering the United States in Congress assembled, to regulate, restrain, or prohibit the importation of all foreign goods in any but American vessels. See act passed in - - a February session, 1785; and by an additional act, passed October, 1785, the delegates are em- powered to agree to any article by which the United States in Congress assembled, shall be solely empowered to regulate the trade and com- merce of the respective states, and citizens thereof with each other, and to regulate, restrain, or prohibit the importation of all foreign goods in American vessels for twenty-five years. Connecticut has passed an act in the terms of the recommen- dation, May, 1785. * New York the same, 4th April, 1785. Pennsylvania the same, 15th December, 1784. Maryland the same, November, 1784. Virginia the same, 3d May, 1784. North-Carolina the same, 2d June, 1784. SEC’Y OF FOREIGN AFFAIRs To PREs. FRANKLIN–FRENCH CoNSUL, 1786. Circular. New York, Office for foreign Affairs, 10th January, 1786. Sir, Your Excellency will receive herewith inclosed, a certified Copy of an Act of Congress of 6th Inst., recognizing the Sieur de la §: as Vice Consul of his most Christian Majesty in the United tates. I have the honor to be with great Respect your Excellency's Most obedient & very h’ble serv't Directed, JOHN JAY. His Excellency, The President of Pennsylvania. APPOINTMENT OF SIEUR DE LA For EST AS FRENCH WICE CoNSUL, 1786. By the United States in Congress Assembled, January 6th, 1786. On a Report of the Secretary to the United States of America for the Department of foreign Affairs to whom was referred his Letter
Page 736
736 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786, of the 29th December inclosing a Letter of the 19th of that Month from the Chargé des Affairs of France with a Brevet of the 22d day of June, 1785, appointing the Sieur de la Forest Vice Consul of France for the United States. Whereas, the Sieur de la Forest has presented to Congress a Brevet from his most Christian Majesty bearing date the 22d Day of June, 1785, appointing him Vice Consul General in the United States. Resolved, That the Sieur de la Forest be and he hereby is re- ceived and recognized as the Vice Consul General of his Most Chris- tian Majesty in the United States, and that the said Brevet be registered in the Secretary's office. Resolved, That all the Privileges, Preeminences and Authority belonging to the said Character and Quality are due to the said Sieur de la Forest, and shall be enjoyed by him. Ordered, That a certified Copy of the above Resolutions be trans- mitted by the Secretary to the United States of America for the Department of foreign Affairs, to the Sieur de la Forest, and also to the Executive of each of the States for their Information. CHA. THOMSON, Sec'y. SEC'y of CoNGRESS TO PREs. FRANKLIN, 1786. Office of Secretary of Congress, - | Jan'y 12th, 1786. Sir, I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith inclosed, a copy of a report which I made to Congress, in obedience to their order of the 2d of this month. with great respect I have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedient and most humble serv't, CHA. THOMSON. Directed, His Excellency, The Governor of Pennsylvania. DAVID RITTENHouse. To W. P. BIDDLE, 1786. Si January 13th, 1786. Ir, - At the request of Capt. sº Porter I take the liberty of mentioning to you that before his appointment as Commissary on the Western Boundary he more than once complained of the very
Page 737
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 737 low pay allowed to his predecessor in that Business, and I believe Capt. Hutchins gave him some assurance that application wou'd be made to Council in his behalf. But not expecting to go to the west- ward I did not interest myself at that time in the matter. If Council shall think proper to increase his pay to 15s. § Day he will be perfectly satisfied. I have only to add that as Commissary he gave entire satisfaction, I believe to all of us. And in this I was agreeably disappointed as from the mildness of his manner I had not formed the highest opinion of his abilities for such a difficult undertaking. But by his indefatigable industry and care he con- vinced me that a man may succeed very well in the most arduous undertaking without noise or bustle. I am, Hon'ble Sir, with great esteem your very humble servant, DAW. RITTENHOUSE.” Directed, The Hon’ble Charles Biddle, Esquire, Vice President. SEc'Y ARMSTRONG To CoMMRs. ON SALE OF BARRACK - LOTs, 1786. Sec'rys Office, Philada. January 19th, 1786. Sir, Inclosed is an Order of Council which I have their directions to transmit to you, as agent for the sale of Barrack lots &c., &c. It is however their intention to extend some farther indulgence to the delinquents whom it immediately concerns. You will there- fore offer them the alternative of discharging the sums due by them respectively in Twenty days from the date thereof—If this be not complied with, you will then proceed to the execution of the order enclosed without discrimination or delay. I am sir, with much Respect, your obedient and very humble Servant, J. A. Jr., Secy. Tench Francis, Esq., In Council, Philada. January 19th, 1786. Gentlemen, As some of the purchasers of the late Barrack lots in the Northern Liberties of This City have refused or neglected to make payment * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 623. Pay not raised.
End of Section 226. Continue to next section or 
Section 227
Page 738
738 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786, therefor agreeably to an act passed on the 1st day of April 1784, Entitled an act to empower The Supreme Executive Council to sell the Barracks in the Northern Liberties of the City of Philad. you are hereby directed to proceed against such delinquents in manner prescribed by the 2d Section of the Law afforesaid. - * I am Gentlemen with much respect, you obedient and very humb. Servant, J. A. Secy.* Mr. Hillegas & Tench Francis, Esquires, Commissioners for selling Barrick Lots. Resolution of THE House of DELEGATEs of VIRGINIA, 1786. In the House of Delegates, Virginia, January 21st, 1786. Resolved, That Edmund Randolph, James Madison, Walter Jones, Saint George Tucker, Meriwether Smith, David Ross, William Ronald and George Mason, esquires, be appointed Commissioners, who or any three of whom, shall meet such Commissioners as may be appointed by the other States in the Union, at a time and place to be agreed on to take into Consideration the Trade of the United States, to examine the relative situations and Trade of the said States to consider how far a uniform system in their Com- mercial regulations may be necessary to their common interest and their permanent harmony and to report to the several States such an act relative to this great object as when unanimously ratified by them will enable the United States in Congress assembled effectually to provide for the same. That the said Commissioners shall imme- diately transmit to the several States Copies of the preceeding resolution with a circular Letter requesting their Concurrence there- in and proposing a time and place for the meeting aforesaid. Teste, JOHN BECKLEY, C. H. D. Agreed to by the Senate, H. BROOKS, C. J. A Copy Teste, * JOHN BECKLEY, C. H. D. Indorsed, Read March 7, 1786, & referred to Mr. R. Morris, Mr. Fitz- simmons & Mr. Clymer to report thereon. see Col. Rec, vol. xiv., p. 325.
End of Section 227. Continue to next section or 
Section 228
Page 739
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 789 SEC'Y OF LAND OFFICE TO CouncIL. 1786. To the Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. As I have frequent applications made to me for Islands in the Rivers in the old purchases in this State, but as the Laws seem rather obscure whether they belong to the late Proprietaries or the State, and if to the State whether they are to be disposed of in the same manner as other vacant Lands; shall be much obliged to Council for directions in this Case, and am your most obedient humble Servant, DAVID KENNEDY Sec'y Ld. Offi. Jan'ry 24th, 1786. C. J. McKEAN To PREs. FRANKLIN, 1786. Philadelphia, January 24th, 1786. Sir, I received the Letter of the 20th instant from Mr. Secretary Armstrong, in which the opinion of the Judges of the Supreme Court is requested respecting a claim of Messieurs Penns to interest upon £15,000 sterling, offered to them on the tenth day of May last, and communicated the same to Judges Bryan and Rush.* We conceive, it would be proper to hear Messieurs Penns & the Attorney General on this question, previous to our giving an opinion, as some circum- stances may have occurred in this business, of which we are not apprized, and our opinion may probably be conclusive in the matter. If Council will be pleased to notify all concerned, and they are willing to submit to our opinion, we will meet as soon as we are informed in this particular, and give our judgment in the case. In the mean time, we can see no reason, why Messrs. Penns may not receive the principal sum, and thereby prevent increasing interest. I have the honor to be, with very great regard, Sir, your Excellency's most obedient Servant, THO. McKEAN. Directed, His Excellency, Benjamin Franklin, Esquire, President, &c., of Pennsylvania. * See Col. Rec., Wol. XIV., p. 622,624-5, also statement of their claim, page 485.
Page 740
740 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. JAMEs DICKINson To John LUKENs, 1786. Dear Sir, Agreeable to Commission and Instructions for Surveying Donation Lands No. 9 District I proceeded on my Errand as far as Venango; but not without hearing on my way a very great uneasi- ness among the Indians at the proceedure of the State in the Purchase of those Lands, whereupon I thought it Necessary to stop there a few Days & consult some Indians Chief on the Subject before I proceeded further where after with the advice of the Pitts- burg Traders There, I sent for by a Runner Whole Face, The Corn Planter, & Long Hair, three Senica Chiefs who were then out a Hunting, two Days March from Wenango. Whole Face & Long hair came in, & the Corn Planter refused, At their coming in by an Interpreter Elijah Matthews, I informed them my Errand, they returned for answer, they could not then give me an answer to my Proposal but would in a few Days; I waited on them 4 & then they gave me a Hearing, which was as follows Verbatim.—At Mr. Thomas Wilkey's store at Venango, Present Mr. Thomas Wilkey, Captain Jacob Springer & Elijah Matthews.—Indians, The Chiefs Whole Face & Long Hair with seven others—My Friend Mr. Whole Face, - I was sent here by the great Council of the State of Pennsylvania held at Philadelphia, to Measure some Lands a little to the North- ward of this Place, which Land I am told the great Council had bought of our Brothers the Indians, whose sole Property they under- stood it to be—But on my way Here I was told the Indians were not well Pleased we should measure those Lands, I thought it therefore best to stop with you a few Days in Order to know what your uneasi- ness was if in my Power to remove any obsticle in the Way; being fully assured the great Counsil of the State would do every Thing on their side to keep alive Friendship, To maintain Peace, To Increase Friendship, To support a Union & to make Trade Flourish between their Brothers the Indians and themselves, as long as Time shall measure the rolling year, & uttermostly endeavour the Happiness of both Nations—Now my Brother and Brothers if there is any thing in the way of all these Things I have mentioned, I do wish & intreat you, to inform me frankly and if it can be in my power to serve in removing any such Thing as may obstruct our mutual Happiness, I shall always think myself happy of having it in my power so to do; or if you think some other Person more suitable to represent this Matter should be glad it was soon done & your objections to my Errand sent to the great Counsil at Philada. To which Mr. Whole Face after consulting with the others gave the following answer,
Page 741
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 74.1 Brother of the Big Knife, Several Surveyors have been up here to Measure Lands the Last Summer and have gone Home. We knew not what was their meaning, as none of them told us, but went on without so much as informing their Intent. When they came to our hunting Fires, we used them well without any Question & when they wanted any of our assistance we gave it freely. Many of our young Warriors are dissatis- fied with |. Conduct, who are in the English Interest and also with the Reward we received for the Lands Thinking it inadequate for so large a Body; it not being one pair of Mokosons a piece; they therefore would advise me not to proceed on my Business and to inform the thirteen Fires it was their opinion I was not safe to proceed, though they present would pledge their Faith for my safety against all Indians at Wenango & the Hunters to the Southward of that place; yet would not answer for it to the Northward, not even one Mile. That in the Spring as early as possible the six Nations would hold a great Counsil at Fort Pitt where & when they & all their Brethren hoped to make an endless Peace with their Brothers of the thirteen Fires & hoped till then I would put by every Thought of proceeding on my Errand as being very Dangerous; & then they hoped every obstruction would be removed & we should walk the Woods together as Brothers aught to do, in Love & Pleasure. And now my Brother tell your great Counsil of the thirteen Fires 'tis our Fault you do not go on, and not yours. hi 1s SEGONKQUAS >: Mark. his CONHONEW P4 Mark. TESTs, THos. WILKINs, TRADERs. JACOB SPRINGER. ELIJAh X. MATTHEws, Interpreter. A true copy from the Original. This Dear Sir, with much more was pronounced in words and gestures of much warmth & earnest which made me conclude to proceed no further & return—My feet being much bit with Frost detains my not coming at present, but will come down as soon as they are recover'd a Little. In the mean time remain yours to serve with the utermost affection. - JAMES DICKINSON. Pits Burg, 24th Januery, 1786. P. S I have not wrote you the private conversation. Directed, To John Lukens, Esq’r, Surveyor General, Philadelphia. Vol. X. —32

Page 742
742 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. John Longschamps to Council, 1786. Hon'ble Gentleman, It gives me much pain to intrude upon you at a time when perhaps more important concerns engage your attention: however the singular favours your honorable Body has already confered upon me, emboldens me once more to address you. The nature of the business is of so much consequence to me that I flatter myself it will in some measure apologize for this intrusion. Having engaged my attention some time in pursuit of a planta- tion & a discription of one being given me which, I think will answer my purpose; it will be necessary for me to explore it before I make the purchase, I shall esteem it a very particular favour if you will be so good as to grant me permission for three, or four, Days absence from town & the favour shall be with gratitude ac- knowledged By hono’ble Gentlemen, your most obedient humble Servant, LONGSCHAMPS.* February 10th, 1786. John STORY, COMMR., To PREs. FRANKLIN, 1786. Commissioners Office, Pittsburgh, February 13th, 1786. Sir, In Compliance with the Order of the Hon’ble Council of the 3d of May last, I have opened an Office in the Counties of Washington, Fayette and Westmoreland, for the Settlement of the Claims in those Counties, against the United States: the business of the latter is nearly compleated, from this I shall proceed to Bedford and from thence, Unless I should receive further Instructions shall go to Philadelphia. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect your Excellency's most obedient Humble Servant, JNO. STORY, Comº of Accº. Directed, -- His Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esqr. * See Col. Rec, Vol. XIV., p. 638—Petition granted.
End of Section 228. Continue to next section or 
Section 229
Page 743
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786 743 SECR'Y OF FOREIGN AFFAIRs TO PREs. FRANKLIN–SPANISH FLAG, 1786. (Circular.) S Office for foreign Affairs, 13th February, 1786. Ir, In Obedience to the Order of Congress I have the Honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed, a copy of an Ordinance of his Catholic Majesty of 28th May last directing what Flags should in future be used by the Navy and Merchant Ships of Spain with a Design” of those Flags annexed. I have the honor to be with great respect, your Excellency's * Most obt. & very h’ble Serv't, - JOHN JAY. Directed, His Excellency, The President of Pensylvania. SEC'y ARMSTRONG TO ATTORNEY GENERAL, 1786. S Secretary's Office, Philadelphia, February 20th, 1786. Ir, Council request the Attorney General's opinion on a dispute that has arisen between some of the Magistrates & Commissioners of the County of Montgomery. It respects the fees for administering the Oath or affirmation of Allegiance to persons who came of age since the time limitted for taking the same in the several Test laws. Some Magistrates charged & received from persons taking the oath or affirm" before them under those Circumstances 1.6, to 2. 6. Others adhering to the 3' Sect. of the Act obliging the Male white inhabitants of the State to give assurance of their Allegiance, &c., passed the 13th June, 1777, have transmitted their list of Names to the Recorder & exhibited their Accounts to the Commº" who refuse payment, alledging doubts whether or not Justices were authorised to give Certificates to such persons, & granting their procedure to be strictly legal, whether in such cases the persons ought not to pay for themselves. I am, Sir, your obedient and very humble Servant, JAMES TRIMBLE, for JOHN ARMSTONG, Jun., Secº. Directed, William Bradford, Esquire, Attorney General. i * This Design is at Harrisburg in letter book No. 1.

Page 744
744 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. Gov. SMALLwood of MD. To PRESIDENT, 1786. Annapolis, 21st February, 1786. Sir, I have the Honor of transmitting the enclosed Resolution of the General Assembly of Maryland appointing Commissioners for this State to meet Commissioners from the States of Pennsylvania and Delaware for the purposes therein expressed. The great Importance of the Objects in view, and the general utility of promoting the Commerce and mutual convenience of the said States must be obvious, and I flatter myself will not only meet the approbation and concurrence, but merit the earliest attention of the Legislature of your State. I have the Honor to be with great respect your Excellency's mt. obed. Servt., W. SMALLWOOD. Directed, His Excellency, The President of Pennsylvania. Resolution of House of DELEGATEs of MD., 1786. By the House of Delegates, February 21st, 1786. Resolved, that Samuel Chase, Samuel Hughes, Peregrine Letter- bury, William Smith, Baltimore Town, and William Hemly, Esquires, be and they are hereby appointed Commissioners for this State to meet Commissioners from the States of Pennsylvania and Delaware for the purpose of considering and digesting the most proper measures for the improving the inland Navigation of the River Susquehannah and the waters communicating with it, and for effecting a navigable communication between the Bays of Chesapeake and Delaware, and also to confer on any other subject which may tend to promote the Commerce and mutual convenience of the said States. That any three or more of the said Commis- sioners have authority to act, and that their proceedings be reported to the next Session of the General Assembly for their examination and adoption, if approved. That the Governor be requested to transmit a Copy of the above Resolve to the Executives of the States of Pennsylvania and Delaware. By order, WM. HARWOOD, CI. H. D. By the Senate, 21st Feb'y, 1786. Read and assented to. By order, J. DoRSEY, Cl. SEN.
Page 745
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 745 # tº ad º: -- | iii SEc'Y OF CONGRESS To PREs. FRANKLIN, 1786. Office of Secretary of Congress, - February 28th, 1786. Sir, On the 9th day of June” last I had the honor of transmitting an Act passed by Congress the 17th of that month, recommending to the several States to make provision, in a manner pointed out in the Act, for officers, soldiers, or seamen who have been disabled in the service of the United States. In the Laws transmitted to this office, I find that the Legislature of your State has passed an Act for this purpose. But as it is necessary that the United States in Congress assembled should be informed of the sum which this provision will . add to the ex- pences of the Union, in order that they may include it in their annual requisition, I have to request that your Excellency would be pleased to order a return to be made to me of the number provided for & the amount of the annual allowance made to them, that I may make report thereof to Congress. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedient & most humble Servant, CHA. THOMSON. Directed, His Excellency, the President of Pennsylvania, CoMPLAINTS AND GRIEvancEs of BRITISH MERCHANTs, 1786. Copy. Grovesnor Square, March 4, 1786. Sir, I have the honor to enclose you Copies of the Secretary of States answer, dated the 28th February, to the Memorial dated 30th of November, and presented to him on the 8th December last, and of a state of grievances of British Merchants & others. I shall make no reply to his Lordship, until I receive the orders of Congress. With great regard, &c., JOHN ADAMS. His Excell'y, John Jay. * See page 472.

Page 746
746 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. SEC. CARMARTHEN TO MR. ADAMs. St. James, February 28, 1786. Sir, In answer to the Memorial you did me the honor to deliver to me on the 8th Decem., I have to observe to you, Sir, that it is his Majesty's fixed determination upon the present, as well as every other occasion, to act in perfect conformity to the strictest principles of Justice and good Faith. The seventh article both of the provisional and of the definitive Treaties, between His Majesty and the United States, clearly stipu- lates the withdrawing, with all convenient speed, His Majesty's Armies, Garrisons & Fleets, from the said United States, and from every port, place & harbour within the same; and no doubt can possibly arise respecting either the Letter or Spirit of such an Engagement. The fourth article of the same Treaties as clearly stipulates that Creditors on either side shall meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value in sterling money of all bona fide debts heretofore contracted. The little attention paid to the fulfilling this engagement on the part of the subjects of the United States in general—and the direct breach of it in many Instances have already reduced many of the King's subjects to the utmost degree of difficulty and distress; nor have their applications for redress to those whose situations in America naturally pointed them out as Guardians of public Faith, been, as yet, successful in obtaining them that Justice to which on every principle of Law, as well as humanity, they were clearly and Indisputably entitled. The Engagements entered into by Treaty ought to be mutual, and equally binding on the respective contracting parties. It would therefore be the height of Folly as well as Injustice to suppose one party alone obliged to strict observance of the public Faith, while the other might remain free to deviate from it's own engagements as often as convenience might render such deviation necessary, though at the expence of it's own national Credit & Importance. I flatter myself, however, Sir, that justice will speedily be done to British Creditors—and I can assure you, Sir, that whenever America shall manifest a real determination to fulfil her part of the Treaty, Great Britian will not hesitate to prove her sincerity to cooperate in whatever points depend upon her for carrying every article of it into real and compleat Effect. The enclosed paper contains a state of the grievances complained of by Merchants and other British subjects having Estates, property & debts due to them in the several States of America. I am, Sir, Your most obed’t servt., CARMARTHEN.
Page 747
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786, 747 Abstract of the state of the grievances complained of by Merchants and other British subjects having Estates, property & Debts due to them in the several States of America. We shall barely recite the Title & Date of the Acts of the different States, complained of and considered as Infractions of the Treaty. MASSACHUSETTS BAY. Act passed the 9th November, 1784, directing the Courts of Judicature to suspend rendering Judgment for any Interest that might have accrued between the 19 April, 1776, & 20 of January, 1783. - 1 NEW YORK. Act passed the 12 July, 1782, British creditors are precluded from the claim of Interest on all Debts contracted before the 1st of January, 1776 until after the 1st January, 1783, and Execution for the principal of those debts are forbidden to be levied until the Expiration of three years after the Evacuation of New York.” Act passed 17 March, 1783, and confirmed by others in 1784 & 1785, called the Trespass Act. Wide the Acts. PENNsy LVANIA. This State has violated the 4th Article of the Definitive Treaty by passing a Law soon after the peace to restrain a recovery of the old Debts for a given period. The British Merchants were in con- sequence thereof, set at defiance, and few Instances exist of payment having been made for any debts contracted before the war. This Law was limited to September, 1784, but whether it has been fur- ther extended by any new act, or whether it expired at the time, the Committee are not certain. This Law operating with the Fears & prejudices of some of the Inhabitants has produced Effects of the most mischievous Consequences to the British Merchants, for not only an uniform opposition has been made against the payment of Interest, but the Lawyers dreading the resentment of some of the most violent among their Countrymen, have refused to engage in the recovery of these unpopular Demands. And the Committee are well assured that not one Action for the payment of an old British Debt has been prosecuted in this State.f Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina & Georgia— * This Act being previous to the Treaty cannot well be called an infrac- tion of it. The preliminaries were not signed till Nov. 30, 1782. # This Act not properly represented. It restrained in favor of the dis- tressed debtors the recovery of all debts, as well domestic as English, till Sep., 1784. But the new Act then passed, though it continued the re- straint respecting domestic debts, has a clause expressly excepting British debts, and leaving them open for recovery. [These two notes are written with a pencil on the margin, and appear to be a commentary of the writer upon the text.]

End of Section 229. Continue to next section or 
Section 230
Page 748
748 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. the Acts made by these several States, contrary to the 4th Article of the Treaty of peace, are particularly mentioned & commented upon, but we have not time to copy the observations. OPINION OF WM. BRADFord, JR., ATT'Y GL., 1786. Saturday Evening, March 4. Sir, The question respecting the Militia Appeal, upon which Council were pleased to request my opinion, ought to have received an earlier answer, but my attendance on Chester Court prevented my receiving their commands until this day. Upon considering the case stated, it appears to me that whenever the militia class is called out, and any one neglects or refuses to march, the fine is immediately incurred, & becomes due to the Commonwealth. But it being reasonable that the party should have an opportunity of being heard, this fine is not to be levied “untill five days after an appeal” is given. This appeal the Lieutenant or Sublieutenant was directed to hold “within ten and not less than five days” after the marching of the militia; and the Lieutenant is uilty of a misdemeanor if he neglects to hold it within that time. #. as the words are merely directory and affirmative, and no nega- tive words are added, I am inclined to think (upon the authority of several late cases) that the Lieutenant is not restricted to the time mentioned, & that an appeal may be legally held after the ten days are passed. In England the Statute directs the appointment of overseers to be make “in Easter week or within one month after;” yet an appointment made after the month was expired has been adjudged good, because there were no negative words, & because the parish ought not to suffer from the neglect of the Justices who have the appointment. Upon the same ground an assessment made by the Commissioners in Pennsylvania, after the time mentioned in the Act, has been held to be legal. In the case before us there seems to be no reason why the sickness, absence or neglect of a Lieutenant for ten days, should deprive the people of a hearing or the Common- wealth of the fines due from delinquents. I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, Sir, Your Excellency's most obedient, & very humble servant, WM. BRADFORD, Jr. His Excellency, The President in Council.
End of Section 230. Continue to next section or 
Section 231
Page 749
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 749 SEC'Y ARMSTRONG TO PROTHONOTARIES OF NorthAMPTON, NoFTHUMBERLAND, AND WYOMING Counties, 1786. - f I Secretary's Office, - Philadada., March 6th, 1786. Sir, By the Law relating to the business of Wyoming, herein inclosed ou will find what is required from the offenders before the pardon provided by the Act can take effect. To ascertain therefore how far these requisitions have been complied with, & of course in what instances the pardon will operate, Council have thought proper to direct that the Justices of the peace of Northumb" Co. shall respec- tively make return to you of the names & first names of all such offenders as have given security agreeably to the Act aff", on or before y 20th day of April next—which returns certified by you as original—you will be pleased to transmit as early as possible to this office. I am, Sir, your obedient humble servant, JOHN ARMSTRONG, Jr., Sec'y. I)irected, To Robert Levers, Esqr., Prothonotary of Northampton County' To Lawrence Keene, Esqr., Prothonotary of North" Co'y. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1786. State of Pennsylyania. In General Assembly. Thursday March 9, 1786, A. M. Agreeably to the order of the day the report of the committee read March 6, relative to the disturbances at Wyoming, whereupon Ordered, that it be recommitted and that the committee be instructed to confer with the Supreme Executive Council thereon. Extract from the Minutes, J. SHALLUS, Ass’t Clerk. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 1786. State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly. Friday, March 10, 1786, A. M. Agreeably to the order of the day the House proceeded to the election of a Register of Wills &c", and Recorder of Deeds for the 32+
Page 750
750 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. County of Westmorland, and the ballots being taken, it appeared that James Hamilton, Esquire, was duly elected, whereupon Resolved, that the said James Hamilton be and he is hereby ap- pointed Register for the probate of Wills and granting letters of Administration, and Recorder of Deeds in and for the county of Westmorland. Extract from the Minutes, J. SHALLUS, Ass’t Clerk. JoHN NICHOLson To W. P. BIDDLE, 1786. Compt'r General’s Office, March 13th, 1786. Sir, By an Act of Assembly passed 22d September, 1785, the Honble the Supreme Executive Council are authorized agreeable to Resolve of Congres of the 7th of June preceding, to employ the Invalids who are pensioners, as guards, &c. I have long considered the papers of this office insecure, consider- ing their importance to the State and the temptations to individuals to destroy them. But I am still more uneasy and anxious for its security since the Certificates received in the Land Office and by the late Act of the 1st of March Instant, have come in. Permit me to request that your Honble Board will be pleased to direct that a guard be posted here for the security of this and the other public offices in the State House, perhaps one Centinel in front and one at the back part of the House might be thought requisite, the better to secure from danger by night. I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect, Sir, your obed servant, JNo NICHOLSON. Directed, The Honble Charles Biddle, Esqr., Vice President. RESOLUTION OF GENERAL Assembly, 1786. State of Pennsylvania. In General Assembly. Friday March 24, 1786, A. M. On motion of Mr. Whitehills, seconded by Mr. Edgar. Resolved, that the Supreme Executive Council be and they are hereby requested to direct one hundred and fifty copies of the Act entitled “An Act to ascertain the number of taxable inhabitants “within the city of Philadelphia, and within each of the counties of
End of Section 231. Continue to next section or 
Section 232
Page 751
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 751 “ this Commonwealth, and for other purposes therein mentioned,” passed the third day of March instant, to be immediately printed and cause the same to be equally distributed and delivered to the commissioners of the several counties within this State. Extracts from the Minutes, J. SHALLUS, Ass’t Clerk. Joseph HAMILTON To Col. JoHN FRANKLIN, 1786 City of Hudson, March 24th, 1786. Dear Sir, This I send to you with Mr. Thomas Gilbert, and three young men with him to settle in that Country, they are all Interested, I wish you would be kind enough to direct them to find my lands. I re- ceived your favour and a Bundle of Papers by Cap'n Strong, l immediately Transmitted them to Vermont where they were perused and then returned, and now they are gone on to Beach and perhaps to Hartford, I continually exert every Nerve in the Cause, I endea- vour to rouze every Body and every thing & spare no cost that I can be at. There are a considerable number of men of abilities in the Country acting briskly in your favour, which consideration may doubtless serve to stimulate and encourage, but remember there is no consideration will act so strong in your favour as that of your absolute desparacy, this with a moderate degree of Policy will make it utterly impossible you should ever be Conquered unless human nature is wholly reversed, in the meatime every Implement of defence should be stored either at Tioga or betwixt that and Lake Otsago, as also the Books of Records which are at Windom. I have wrote about them affairs but you wrote that you fear to loose your half share men if a meeting don't provide for laying out &c. Good Sir I see no need of a meeting about the matter, you have all the Power in your hand that the Proprietors have, locate you Towns for them on the Company's cost with the rights you have in your Hands or they possess it would be well however for the sake of preserving good order that the Committee for laying do joyn with you herein, but lay them out in any figure or shape is judged best and necessary to accommodate the owners and is agreeable to the minds of the now ruling Committee may pitch single Farms if necessary where it makes no difficulty on the ground, But above all preserve good order and a proper subordination and harmony among yourselves, men thus Planted and desperate The angels from Heaven unless Divinely Commissioned could not disposses, moreover none of the old Located Towns that are Forfeited will stand in the way unless renewed by the Committee neither ought the Committee to renew unless upon Conditions of Immediate settlement and in such there can be no
Page 752
752 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. need of a renewal, in short for any of your People that are on the ground to possess any lands that are not absolutely and without dis- pute already converted to private property in the largest sense of the word I trust that no Proprietor that is out in the Country will ever be Cloathed with that Impudence as to desire he should be removed unless he have more land then comes to his share. The Country talk is a mere Joke and a farce and in my opinion has been the principal cause that the whole Country has not been settled beyond doubt long ago, even in case where there is no Jepardy in settling there can be no reason rendered why he that first goes should not have choice, this does no Injury to the rest of the Proprietors, the rest, of the lands are made proportionably more valuable for his settling and men very often misjudge at the first which is the best lands. my Friends go on, go on, but for God sake preserve rule and good order among º but let no man be among you but who feels himself Interested, let him be pleased with his situation if possible this is the only true Policy. Thus Sir I have thrown out a few of my Fireside thoughts, I hope you will excuse me for they are sincere and what I am bold in and will ever endeavour to support, pray Sir, Present my best Compliments to Col Butler, & Mr. John- son to your Supreme Committee in particular and Individually and to all my other acquaintances. Pray God bless you all, Your Friend & Brother in Tribulation Hope and earnest Expectation, JOS. HAMILTON, Col John Franklin, Motto Perseverance, Supplement to the 24th of March. * Sir, Your Paper negotiations are Political in several views; in the first place they Interest the Minds of different men in your favour and thus serves to Disarm, and secondly may procrastinate, however arguments will not do unless they are set home upon the Conscience by a view of a quick operating Phisic, This Phisic Doctor Smith, in his Letter Informs you, keep by you, if so and you administer well, you will be all good Doctors, (Hint) Burgoyne fell because he did not preserve a retreat to the Northward, you will observe that we have not as yet been disturbed on the slip of Land two miles wide on the North side of our Purchase, we have bought it of the natives & Pennsylvania do not claim it, no man has even a pretence to trouble us there and State Troops cannot be marched out of the State without breaking confederation these appears to me to be con- siderations very momentious in our present situation, Even Maga-
End of Section 232. Continue to next section or 
Section 233
Page 753
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 753 zines and Warlike stores to defend against the Indians who it is said now threaten may lawfully be deposited there Cannon &c. N. B. you may depend on a visit from Head Doctor from the North (by the 15th) of the next of the Petitions with his apparatus Glister Pipe and all. Capt. Strang is very buisy and will soon be there Mr. Beach is much wanted in those parts, in short I should not know how to do without his assistance it is best every one should be in a situation in which they can be most servicable we want reso- lution here as well as there and it will not do to Strike a man in the Streets in view of the Public without telling for what it is, for this we must constantly do in the Public Prints and every where else, otherwise we bring the resentment of the Public upon us. J. H. Gov. SMALLwood, of MARYLAND, TO PREs. DICKINSON, 1786. Circular. Maryland, Annapolis, 30 March, 1786. Sir, I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency the enclosed Copy of An Act of the Legislature of this State, under the great Seal, passed in their last Session, extending the time limited for bringing in and settling Claims against this State by the Citizens thereof, and for limiting the time for bringing in and settling Claims against the said State by Citizens of the United States. By particular direction of the General Assembly of this State, I have to request that you would be pleased to order the Substance of this Act to be published, or such part thereof as you may judge necessary for the information of the Citizens of your State. The Duty on Salt in this State, is suspended after the 1" of April next, unless at that Time, or until there be a Duty laid on that Article in States of Virginia and Pennsylvania—this Contingency obliges me to request of your Excellency the earliest information on this Subject, that the views of the Legislature here may be carried into execution. I have the honor to be, Sir, Your Excellency's mo. Obed. Servt., W. SMALLWOOD. His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania.
End of Section 233. Continue to next section or 
Section 234
Page 754
754 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. SEC'Y OF CONGRESS TO PREs. FRANKLIN, 1786. Circular. Office of Sec'y of Congress, April 1", 1786. Sir, Pursuant to the order of Congress, I herewith transmit to your Excellency, to be communicated to your Legislature, a state of the representation for last month. I also enclose two copies of the Journal as far as printed—one for the legislative, and the other for the executive branch of Govern- Iment. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be Your Excellency's most obedient, & most humble servt., CHA. THOMSON. His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania. STATEMENT OF MAJOR DAVID LENNox, 1786. I was taken Prisoner the 16th Nov., 1776, & Exchanged the 20th April, 1778, but was not released till the 15th May. I then joined the Army at Valley Forge, but found that I could not get the Rank to which I was entitled; however, having every wish to continue in the Service, I joined General Wayne's Family, & continued the whole Compaign. The Committee of Congress, consisting of Gen- eral Read from this State, and Colonel Bannister from Virginia, together with the Commanding Officer of each Line, met at the White Plains in August, 1778, to ascertain the Rank of the Army. They, wishing to do me all the Justice in their power, fixed my Rank, Wiz", a Majority from the 7th June, 1777; but the situation of the Army did not admit of my getting the Command to which I was entitled—this is Certified by General Wayne, who was the then Commanding Officer of the Pennsy" Line. The Comptroller General has settled with me to the 20th April, 1778; but as I could not get my Command, I left the Army after the Campaign of 1778, & think it a hardship to be deprived of my Pay, &c., after that time. I refer to General Wayne's Certificate for the facts set forth. D. L. Indorsed, 1786, April 3.
Page 755
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 755 ** COMMISSIONERS ON NAVIGATION OF SUSQUEHANNA, 1786. Sir, You were this day appointed one of five Commissioners on the part of this State to treat with Commissioners apppointed, or to be appointed, by the States of Delaware & Maryland on the subject of improving the navigation of the Susquehannah River, & for the purposes expressed in Resol. of Assembly of the 21st of March last. You will be pleased to signify your Acceptance or refusal of this appointment as early as possible. I am, with much respect, Your most Obedient servant, JOHN ARMSTRONG, jr., Sec'y.* Secretary’s Office, 5th April, 1786. The Hon. Francis Hopkinson, Esquire, Doctor John Ewing, David Rittenhouse, Robert Milligan and George Lattimer, Esquires. F. HoPKINSON To W. P. BIDDLE, 1786. Sir, I am sensible of the Honour the Supreme Executive Council have done me in the appointment of yesterday. I wish I may be able to answer their Expectation in the object of this Commission. I shall however, use my best Endeavours to execute the Duty required, unless such circumstances should occur as ought to hold me excused & prevent my leaving Home. I am Sir, with much Regard, your obedient Serv't, FRA's HOPKINSON,+ Philadelphia, April 6th, 1786. RoBERT MILLIgAN TO SECY. ARMSTRONG, 1786. Phil'a, 6th April, 1786. Sir i was yesterday favoured with yours notifying to me, that Council had appointed me one of the five Commissioners, to treat with those of Maryland & Delaware on the subject of the navigation of the Sus- * See Col. Rec. Wol. XV., p. 2. # See Ibid.
End of Section 234. Continue to next section or 
Section 235
Page 756
756 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. quehannah. Be pleased to acquaint the Council that I consider myself much honor'd by their appointment and most readily accept it. I am Sir, y' most obed’t Serv't, ROB'T MILLIGAN.” Directed, To Gen'l Armstrong, Sec'y of Council. JoHN LUKENs, S. G., To W. P. BIDDLE, 1786. Sir, Agreeable to your Order of Wednesday last; I wou’d reccom- mend Robert Galbraith, Esqr., of the County of Bedford to measure & assertain the boundaries of the several districts between the Canoe place on the west branch of Susquehannah, and the Kittaning on the Allegany River. I am Sir, Your H’ble Serv't, JNO. LUKENS, S. G.t Friday, 7th April, 1786. Directed, To The Hon’ble Cha's Biddle, Esqr., W. P., Present. Election of Probate of WILLs, 1786. State of Pennsylvania, In General Asembly, Friday April 7, 1786—A. M. Agreeably to the order of the day, the House proceeded to the election of a Register for the probate of wills and granting letters of Administration and Recorder of Deeds in and for the county of Chester and the ballots being taken it appeared that Persifor Frazer, Esquire was duly elected, whereupon, Resolved, that the said Persifer Frazer be and he is hereby ap- pointed Register for the probate of wills and granting letters of - Administration and Recorder of Deeds in and for the county of Chester. Extract from the minutes, J. SHALLUS, Asst. Clerk. * See Col. Rec., XV. p. 2. # See Ibid. p. 3.
Page 757
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 757 DoRSEY PENTECOST To CouncIL, 1786. Washington County, 16th April, 1786. Gentlemen. - About ten days ago a Mr. Graham, Excise officer for the three western Counties, was in the exercise of his office in this County, seized by a number of People and Treated in the following manner, viz. His Pistols which he carried before him taken and broke to pieces in his Presence, his Commission and all his papers relaiting to his Office tore and thrown in the mud, and he forced, or made to stamp on them, and Imprecate curses on himself, the Commission and the Authority that gave it to him, they then cut off one half of his hair, cued the other half on one side of his Head, cut off the Cock of his Hat, and made him wear it in a form to render his Cue the most Conspicuous, this with many other marks of Ignominy they Impos'd on him & to which he was obliged to submit, and in the above plight they marched him amidst a Crowd from the frontiers of this County to Westmoreland County, caling at all the Still Houses in their way where they were Treated Gratis, and expos'd him to every Insult, and mockery that their Invention could con- trive. They set him at Liberty at the entrance of Westmoreland § with Threats of utter Desolution should he dare to return to our ounty. This Bandittie I am told denounces distruction, vengence against all manner of People who dare to oppose, or even ganesay this their unparrelled behaviour, and that they will support every Person con- cerned against every opposition. I suppose they depend on their numbers for I am told the Combination is large. I have thought it my duty as a good Citizen to give your Honor- able Board information of this matchless and daring Insult offered to Government, and the necessity there is for a speedy and Exam- plary punishing being inflicted on those atrocious offenders, for if this piece of conduct is lightly looked over no Civil officer will be safe in the Exercise of his duty, though some Gentlemen with whom I have conversed, think it would be best, and wish a mild prose- cution, for my part I am of a different opinion, for it certainly is the most audacious and accomplished piece of outragious, and unpro- voked Insult that was ever offered to a Government and the Liberties of a free People, and what in my opinion greatly agrivates their Guilt is, that it was not done in a Gust of Passion, but cooly, delibe- rately, and Prosecuted from day to day, and there appears such a desolute, and refractory spirit to prevade a Certain class of People here, particularly those concerned in the above Job, that demands the attention of Government, and the most severe punishment. I am not able to give the names of all concerned, nor have I had an oppertunity of making perticular enquiry but have received the aforegoing information from different people on whom I can rely,
Page 758
758 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. neither do I think they have as many friends as they suppose, or would wish to make the public believe. I have it not in my Power at this time to be as full and explicit as I could wish on this subject, as I have but Just time to hurry up this scrawl while the carrier is waiting. I am Gentlemen, with the highest Esteem and Respect, your most obdt. very Humble Servt. DORSEY PENTECOST. P. S. I have just snatched as much time as to write a short note to the Chief Justice, on the above subject. Directed, His Excellency, The President and Members of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. LT. Col. WM. CoATs To CouncIL, 1786. To the Honorable the Supreme Executive Council, For the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, I am under the Necessity of applying to Council for an order on the Treasurer for Two Hundred pounds, to pay off a Number of Demands against me as Lieutenant of the County of Philada. viz. from the First Second and Fifth Battalions, Accounts from which have Come to Hand, for seven & eight years Arreages Due to Drummers & Fiffers or to the Officers who have Advanced the money and to the Officers for making the annual Returns of the Male White Inhabitants, for the repairing of Arms, Making and Repairing of Drums, Printers, &c., &c. I have the Honour to Remain the Councils, Most obedient Humble Servant, WM. COATS, Lieut. C. P. Philad. County, April 26th, 1786. Directed, Charles Biddle Esq., Vice President, and the Honorable Execu- tive Council for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. MAJOR RICHD. FULLERTON TO PREs. FRANKLIN, Philadelphia, 1st May, 1786. Gentlemen, . As a Military ardour, unknown since the year '75, seems to per- vade; and as it is our wish to encourage it, by every means in our
Page 759
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 759 power; we take the liberty of requesting you will grant 100lb Powder For 400 men for the use of the third Battalion Philadelphia Militia, & as we would not appear selfish on the occasion, you will pardon our requesting the same indulgence for the other Battalions. We have the honor to be, with Sentiments of respect Gentlemen, your obedt. & hum. Servt. JNO. SHEE, Lt. Col. command, 3d, B. RICHD. FULLERTON, Major. Directed, - His Excellency, Benj. Franklin Esq., & The Honble. Executive Council. SEC'y of For EIGN AFFAIRs To PREs. FRANKLIN, 1786. Circular. Office for foreign affairs, 3d May, 1786. Sir Congress have been pleased to order that I should “report particu- “larly and specially how far the several States have complied with “the Proclamation of Congress of the 14th Jan., 1784,” and the “Recommendation accompanying the same, pursuant to the defini- “tive Treaty of Peace between the United States of America and * Great Britain.” In order that I may be able to fulfil the Expectations of Congress I must request the Favor of your Excellency to inform me whether and how far the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has complied with the Recommendation in question. I have the Honor to be your Excellency's Most obedient & humble Servt., JOHN JAY. Directed, His Excellency, the President of the Commonwealth of Penn- sylvania. PREs. FRANKLIN TO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS, 1786. In Council, Philadelphia, May 10th, 1786. Gentlemen, I recd. yesterday Evening the letter you did me the honor of writing to me the 7th Instant, and this morning I communicated . * See page 193.
Page 760
760 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. the same to the Council; but the Board being very thin the con- sideration thereof was postponed ’till to-morrow morning, one of the Members requesting he might take the letter with the papers it in- closed home with him for more attentive perusal; he has since been with me as has also Mr. Wilson your Colleague in the delegation, and they both express much apprehension that great inconvenience to this state may arise from the acceptance of the Cession proposed by Connecticut, if it be made in the Terms after the printed deed, and therefore have advised that I should write this evening to desire that you would endeavour to obtain a delay of the determination 'till some day next week; Mr. Wilson intending to set out for New York on Friday, in order to be with you on Saturday next, and join you in Congress the week following. The Consideration of your whole Letter will be taken in Council to-morrow which may enable me to write to you more fully by the afternoons Post, this I shall endeavour to send by the stage. - With great Esteem and regard, I have the honor to be, Gentlemen, your most obd. & most hble. Servt., BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, President. ANDREw PortER To CouncIL, 1786. Philada., May 10th, 1786. Gentlemen, I beg leave to inform Council that I propose to proceed to the Westward without loss of time, in order to compleat the Line of the Western Boundary of the State; and being informed that Mr. Alexander McClain is to assist me in the business, should be glad his appointment might be sent him as soon as convenient. I must request the favour of Council to grant me an order on the Treasury for £100 to enable me to proceed on the business. I am, with Respect, Gent., your obdt. Servt., - ANDREW PORTER, W.H. SMITH AND OTHERs To CoRPORAL Montgomery, 1786. Sir My conscience, my oath to the State, binds me to inform, I wrote to Esqr. Shaw on the subject informing of a Design of forming a New State, which is to include Wioming, & also to include the * See Col. Rec., Vol. XV., pp. 19, 20.
Page 761
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 761 Ginece & Territory of lands claimed by New York; the Principal agents live in State of New York & Connecticut, I am become not only acquainted with those agents but their whole plan of proceed- ings by means of Letters which I have Intercepted. I have Neither Money or horse fit to ride, or I would have gone to Governor and Council myself, Colonel John Franklin & Captain Solloman Strong are principal actors, Strong lives in the State of New York, is now gone up to Wisock, where he pretends to have a Large share in a Town, which was laid out under Connecticut, Strong has told me and a number of others, that he went twice to Warmount before he could prevale with General Allen to come to Wioming, Strong said that he had Brought all in to fight General Devane who he Pretended was to come to Wioming with troops from Pennsylvania. Esqr. Shaw informed me that he expected to send fifty men here to Take if possible Allen & many others, which I described yesterday. Franklin and Allen left & set out to go to Connecticut in order to attend to a meeting of the Susquehanna Proprietors, Pray stop the intended force, if they are set out, send after them and call them back; I wish that this matter may lie still, & my proceedings re- main a Cecret untill the minds of Governor & Council are made manifest to me, & the undersigners, who are the only Persons in the settlement acquainted with my discoveries, who are harty in the Cases, whenever we shall get orders from authority, we will Take & deliver to the authority at Sunsburey, the following persons, Ethan Allen, John Franklin, Soloman Strong, James Fin, John Jinkens, Christopher Hollbert. Their Designs is if possable to purswade the people on the west Branch to joyn them. Franklin & Jinkens did engage James Fin, a Baptise Minister some time Back, to make a visit to the west branch and to preach about amongst the people there, and feale out their minds in regard to a New State. If Allen, Franklin & Strong were removed, the others would do but Little; the longer the matter is delayed, the stronger they get, they have some ammunition stored, and some provision in store, a timely exer- tion would perhaps prevent a deal of trouble and blood-shead. Allin and Franklin and Strong have used many arguments & strategims to seduce the People and prejudice them against Pennsylvania; but to little purpose. I have put up many advertisements urging the people to attend to their Duty agreeable to their Ingagements. Allin and Franklin and Strong made it their business to go from district to district and pul down my papers, which were put up and repeatedly threatened my life, which I disregard. I expect Captain Shools & we will soon call the people together; the people in General are determined to adhear to Pennsylvania. I have with unwearied labor & argument got the people to believe that Pennsylvania will do us Justice. If we were properly organized with authority we would Exert ourselves when the above men arive, if they should have force, & we think it not prudent to attempt taking them, we shall call on you for assistance.
End of Section 235. Continue to next section or 
Section 236
Page 762
762 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. P. S.—I send you Copies of the papers which I had put up in each District. Sir, we the undersigners, are with Esteem, your most obedient humble Servts., WM. HOOKER SMITH, SAMUEL HOWER, ABRAHAM WESTBROCK. May 14th, 1786. Mirected, Corp'l Mongomery, at Sunburey. Account OF CITY LOTS which HAVE REVERTED TO THE STATE, 1786. Account of The City lot sold pursuant to act of Assembly passed the 10th of April, 1781, which have reverted to The State by the Non-payment of The Purchasers, and which are directed to be sold by act passed April, 1786. 8. No. 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, & 18, bought by E. Blaine Esq. 9. No. 508, 509, 510, 511, 738, 739, 740, 741, & 742, do. John Mitchell. 2 No. 1229, 1230, 1231, 1232, 1233, 1234, 1. 1235, 1236, 1237, 1238, 1739, 1240, - 12.É.iºiº.º. ișā, do. Wm. Sheaff. 1249, 1250. 5. No. 1375, 1376, 1595, 1597, 1599, - do. James Budden. 2. No. 1592, 1593. - - - - do. Sam. M. Brown. 8. No. 1624, 1625, 1626, 1627, 1628, 1629, 1630, 1631, do. John Barker. 2. No. 1753, 1754. - - - - do. Wm. Grinding. 3. No. 1766, 1767, 1768, - - - do. George Way. 1. No. 1771, - - - - - - do. Stace. Hepburn. 59 - JNO. NICHOLSON, Compty. Gen. Office, May 16th, 1786. 1786, June 10th, appd. for the sale of the above lots.f * See Col. Rec., XV., p. 27. f See Ibid. pp. 23, 37.
Page 763
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 763 DEPOSITION OF JOHN LEITH,-INDIAN ROBBERIES, 1786. Pittsburg, May 16th, 1786. The Information of Mr. John Leith Being this Inst. arrived from Muskingum, from his Camp, he says that he arrived at his Camp from this place on Saturday the thirteenth of this Month and on his arrival he found every thing to his Satisfaction, Only that by making Inquire he found, that there was two Delaware Indians had come there above a Quarter of an hour before him, who Informed him that there was a Certain William Dawson and a Charles McClain, who was In the Indian trading bussiness was Robbed of all there Goods & property that he had with them, that same Morning about Eleven O'clock, Likewise four of their working hands Killed. And the opinion of the above Mentioned Indians of Dawson & McClains Lives being Sav'd was as the had Being formly British Traders But at this time the have had their Goods from the United States, the same two Indians told Mr. Leith to Depart from that place as Quick as possible as he was in very Great danger of his Life, the Likewise was so frendly with him that the took upon themselves to Secure all his Goods & property that he had at his Camp & for himself to Escape Immediately as the were very sure, there would be a party of Cherokees & Mingo Indians, there that Night to Cutt them all of Likewise, the told him that there was another party gone to the Salt Licks If the had not already gott there and Cut the white people of that were there. Upon the hearing of this News he Immediately Departed from that place, unto here, Leaving all his property in the Care of the two Mentioned Indians & one more who was hired with him. JOHN LEITH, Sworn and Subcribed Before me May the Seventeenth, 1786. MICH. HUFFNAGLE, MICHAEL HUFFNAGLE TO SECRETARY ARMSTRONG, 1786. Sir, A few days ago a Committee appointed at this place wrote to the President & Supreme Executive informing them of our situation & the disposition of the Indians from the different information we had received. I am very sorry that I must address you, to give the now information to Council again for which information,I inclose you the deposition of Mr. John Leith a Man employed by Mr. Duncan in the Indian Trade. I would also mention that although it is propable that the Delaware Indians & Wyandotes which to be friendly, yet something ought to be done as the People that are now doing the Mischief are part of the Mingoe Nation, & that Nation
Page 764
764 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. not calling them to an account shows that they must countenance them in it, or that they are afraid to say any thing to them. Mr. Duncan setts off to Morrow Morning to look after his property, at his return I will give you such information as I may receive. your very Hble. Servt. MICH. HUFFNAGLE, May 17, 1786, Pittsburg. Directed, - (On Public Service.) Gen. John Armstrong Jr., Secretary Supreme Executive, Phila- delphia. Hon. by Gen. Irwin. WM. SHAw To CouncIL, 1786. Col. Montgomery's, May 18th, 1786. To His Excellency the President and the Supreme Executive Coun- cil of the State of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, At the request of Cap't John Paul Schott, agent for the settlers at Wyoming, I arrived at that place on the 9th of April last, for the purpose of taking recognizance of the People who were willing to comply with a law passed the 24th day of Dec'r last, where one hundred and seventy-eight of said settlers entered into recognizance on and before the 15th of April, agreeable to law, and afterwards a number took the oath allegiance to the State, and the inhabitance in general then appeared very desirous of being Citizens, untill unluckily on the 27th, Co. Athen Allen came to Wyoming, who alarmed them by telling them he despised their treating with Penn- syl’a, that he had formed one new State, and with one hundred Green Mountain Boys, and two hundred Rifle men he could make that a new State in defiance of Pennsylvania; on the 10th Instant I received a letter from a settler there nearly to the same purpart of one inclosed by Col. Wm. Montgomery, Esqr., which I shewed to a few, who advised I should again go up to Wyoming, which I did, and the 14th arrived there. I found a number that did not seem to be so familiar as formily, I also meet with a number who appeared to be much in favor of, and wished to comply with the Laws of the State, one of whom produced me the copy of a letter he had enter- cepted and taken, which he made oath before me was a true one, a copy of which I inclose. The man is a person who may be relied on but wished his name might not be made known least some of the enemies of the state would take away his life for it, on the evening of the 14th the Sheriff of this County arrive at Wioming and on the three following days served several Writs, but most of them on whom they were served refused to give bail bonds, and on the 17th a num-
Page 765
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. 765 3 ber of them collected and ordered the Sheriff to leave the place in two hours, or they would abuse him. On the same evening we left the place. t The Schemes of the Proprietors of the Susquehanah Company is discovered by the inclosed Copy of a letter from Joseph Hamilton To John Franklin, Which perhaps might be good policy in govern- ment to endeavour to prevent by raising and sending some men there which would be a means of encouraging those that are friendly to the government and Laws of this State and a discouragement to those who are wavering, much will depend on the firmness of the soldiery and the disinterestedness of the Officers. I am Gentlemen with Esteem 1. your Obedient Humble Serv't, WM. SHAW. Directed To His Excellency the President and the supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. Favor'd § post. WM. MontgomeRY TO Council, 1786. Northbd., May 20th, 1786. His Excellency the President & the Honorable the Supreme Ex- ecutive Council, &c. Since the inclosed letter of the 17th A meeting was had of the Justices, The Sheriff, The Lieutenant of the County & a Number of other Principal Gentlemen where upon consideration of the Intel- ligence from Wyoming they intirely concur in sentiment (respecting the danger) with the representation in my Letter & that of Wm. Shaw, Esq’r, and are clearly & decidedly of opinion that, no time, not a moment should be lost; That there is the greatest & most eminent danger of a dismemberment of the state; That the party under Ethan Allen, John Franklin & Solomon Strong increase daily; Their most limited pretensions extend to the whole of the 42d Degree of Latitude; That from the nature of their views they will be a combined force acting constantly and in concert, as their encroachments, like the feudal system of old, will furnish the re- ward of their adherents and followers: And no person in the State however remote from the present scene, if within the above limit, can hope to continue a Pensylvanian without the most speedy, effectual, and vigorous exertion of Government in suppressing this dangerous insurrection. That as there appears still a Number of People at Wioming who talk in a favorable strain, whether they are sincere, God knows, But if there are any sincere friends there they Wol. X. —33

Page 766
766 PENNYLVANIA ARCHIVES 1786. should not be lost, their timely support might have a powerful tendency to divide the party and the more readily crush the scheme. It is also the opinion of all present that it is extremely proper to give you this timely information by a person of Intelligence, and for that purpose have unanimously appointed Genl. John Bull, Esq., to carry these Dispatches, to whom they beg leave to refer you for more minute and particular Information. I am Gentlemen with y' greatest respect, his Excellency and your Honor's obedient humble servant, WM. MONTGOMERY. Directed, To His Excellency the President & Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. Hon'rd tº Gl. Bull. WM. Montgomery to C. J. McKEAN, 1786. North’hd, May 20th, 1786. Honored Sir, - I do myself the honor of inclosing you a copy of an intercepted letter which placeth the designs of a Number of People at Wioming in a clear and decided point # view; there we are informed of some of the active persons in the scheme of a new and Independent state; of the best mode of carrying it on, and of the then expected arrival of Col. Ethan Allen from Vermont, since the writing of which Allen has arrived, talks freely of a new state, Reprobates the Idea of sub- mission to Pennsylvania; and he in conjunction with a Col. John Franklin of that place and a Captain Solomon Strong of New York State are gone about a week ago to meet the Susquehannah Company to consult what measures are next to be pursued—We find they have some ammunition & stores laid up so that upon the whole it appears to us beyond a doubt that a dismemberment of the State will take place unless immediate force prevent, for we find that no overtures can be made that will satisfy all parties there, The most limited claim of the Schemers is the whole of the 42d Degree of Latitude throughout Pennsylvania—Can she submit to this; she cannot; Surely our yeomenry will no longer say, it is a Land Jobing Quarrel. The Bill for striking them off as a seperate County eventually seems to put that out of Question; it is no longer a private Quarrel, it is now become a serious Governmental concern, and I hope Pensylvania will support as dignified a Character in this affair, and assert her supremacy as fully as she did her Independence in the late Revolution, it is wished here by a meeting of the most respectable Characters at this place that you might be informed of the state of things here as you will have an opportunity on the
Page 767
PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES. 1786, 767 circuit to communicate the information, and remove the scruples of Gentlemen about interesting themselves in the controversy, as supposing it rather a debate about private property than otherwise— Wm. McClay will hand you this, from whom you will hear every thing more particularly on this subject. - -, I remain with the greatest respect your Honors most obed’t Sert., WM. MONTGOMERY. Pirected, The Honor’ble, Thos. McKean, Esqr., Dr. of L., Chief Justice, &c Honor'd tº Wm. McClay, Esqr. --- PREs. FRANKLIN TO WILLM. SHAW,-WYOMING, 1786. In Council, Philada., May 27th, 1786. Sir, We have received your Letter of the 18th Inst.” by Gen. Bull with the important Intelligence of the Steps taken by some restless Men to raise fresh Disturbance among the Settlers at Wyoming after the good Disposition you had so lately left those People in when you had been among them, taking their Recognizance & Oath of Allegiance. We still hope that the Pains you took in that irº, Journey, will not be lost, but continue to have a good Effect in disappointing the Projects of those who aim at continuing a Discord that cannot possibly produce any Good. You may be assured that no imprudent use will be made of the Letter you com- municated . It is to be regretted that when Measures were in Medi- tation by the Government to accommodate the Difference, fresh Occasion of Tumult should be afforded by the Sheriff's going up to serve Writs of Ejectment there, which might possibly by those Measures have been rendered unnecessary. - With great Esteem, I am Sir, &c., B. F. Pres.f Wm. Shaw, Esq., PREs. FRANKLIN To WM. Montgomery, 1786. In Council, Philad’, May 27, 1786. Sir, The Council have received your Letters of the 17th and 20th instant, by Gen'l Bull, containing the important Intelligence of fresh Disturbances at Wyoming, which will be taken into Consideration. We are sensible of your attention to the Public Welfare, manifested * See page 764. # See Col. Rec., Wol. XV., p. 27
Page 768
768 PENNSYLVANIA ARCHIVES IT86. in these Dispatches; and desire you would continue to send us what farther Information you may from time to time obtain of the Pro- ceedings in that part of the Country, using in the mean while what Influence you have to quiet the minds of the unhappy Settlers there- by assuring them, that there is the best Disposition in the Govern- ment to treat them equitably and even with kindness, and to take them under its Protection, and extend to them all the Privileges of our free & happy Constitution, on their demonstrating by their peaceable and orderly Behaviour, that the Sentiments express'd in their late Petition to the Gen. Assembly are sincere, and that they are truly dispos'd to become good Citizens. We hope they will wisely pursue this Conduct, and thereby render all thought of taking compulsive Measures unnecessary. I am, with much esteem, Sir, your most humble servant. B. F., Presid.* Directed W" Montgomery, Esq., President of the Courts of Common Pleas Quarter Sessions and Orphan's Court, North" Co. * DELEGATES IN CoNGREss To PREs. FRANKLIN, 1786. New York, May 31st, 1786. - By the permission of Congress. Sir, We do ourselves the honor to enclose you a Copy of Mr. Adams' Letter of the 4 March, together with Lord Carmarthen's Letter to him, respecting the frontier posts, and an abstract from a report of a Committee of British Merchants, &c., for the Information of your Excellency & Council. We are with great respect, Your Excellency's most obedient & very humble serv'ts, CHA. PETTIT, JOHN BAYARD.f His Excellency, Benj. Franklin, Esq. * See Col. Rec. Vol. XV. p. 27. # See pages 745–6. !
End of Section 236. Continue to next section or 
Index
Page 769
IN DE X. A. Act to prevent and stay suits against Wyoming, 5. Of 1705, for bailing prisoners, 407. Of New York on Boundary, 422. Restoring lands at Wyoming, 658. Complained of by Tłritish Merchants, 747. Active, Brig. (1780.) 161. (See Vol. VIII.) Adams, John, on public debt to France, 384, 386. Relating to American Bishops, 432. On British grievances, 745 Admiralty Court, fees received, 58. Letter of Judge H. on a vessel esca- ping under writ of, 356. Alleghany River, land bad, near, 509. Allen, Andrew, case of Big spring tract at Reading, 712. Allen, Ethan, at Wyoming, 765, 766. American Bishops, (See Bishop.) American Regiment at Schuylkill heights. 323. Deserters from, 388. American Philosophical Society, grant to, by assembly. 204. Andrews, Rev. Robert appointed by Virginia commisioner on Boundary, 146, 171, (1783.) Antes, Henry, Sheriff of Northumber- land Co., to arrest insurgents at Wyoming, 344. Complaints against, 482. Apportionment of $636,000 among the states, 238. Armand, Gen’l, Legion, and mutiny of soldiers, 62. Petition against, 133. Arms, &c., to be taken care of by the States, 154. Arnustrong, Lt. Col. John, letter of Council respecting Wyoming, 307. Appointed to command under Col. Harmar, 315. Complains of his rank, 316. Wheat to be secured, 317. Appointed Commissioner to Wyoming, 327, 330. Ordered to return to Phila., 360. Deposition, 623; letters 427, 653, 658, 675, 677, 685, 686. To inhabitants of Wyom- ing, 685. To Pres. Dickinson, 686. Armstrong, Capt. William, wagoners stopped with British clothing, 12. Army, American, pay of soldiers vand officers, 113. Artillery artificers, under Capt's Wy- lie and Jordan, gratuity to men, 94. Atlee, Samuel, J., commissioner to treat with Indians, 265. Letters from, on election—deed of Six na- tions, 360. Atlee, Wm., muster rolls of Lancaster Co., 394 Assembly, letters to and from, 8, 126, 195, 198, 407, 427, 429. Resolutions of, 8, 9, 111, 129, 130, 149, 166, 177, 178, 179, 184, 195, 196, 203, 204, 209, 233, 315,316, 332, 334, 335, 336, 365, 367, 412, 420, 531, 538, 542, 557 –561, 611, 695, 710, 711, 749. Boundary with Virg'a, 8, 95. Pur- chase of lands from Indians, 111. Message from, 379. Reports, 224, 316, (1784,) 551, 552, 749. Of Con- necticut, resolutions of, 116. Pro- ceedings on internal Commerce, 128, 130. Rejoicings for peace, 151. Re- pairs to gov't mansion, (1783,) 166, 332. Removal of obstructions in Del. river, (1783,) 177. Death of Ma- jor Kennedy, 178. Officers of Penn- sylvania line, 179, (1783.) Allot- ment of estates for University, 195. Wyoming and Connecticut, intentions of Pennsylvania, 196. Papers asked for by council, 198. Grant to American Philosophical Society,204. Elect Auctioneers for Philadelphia, 206, 209. Wyoming, 224. Pay to W. Maclay, 315. Indian affairs, 316. Order to R. Andrews, Comm'r on Boundary with Virginia, 336,412. T. Matlack 367. Sale of lands, 379– 384. Respecting James Searle, 420. Chinese strangers from Pallas, India- man, 532. Election of Delegates to Congress, 534. Treasurer, 534. Re- port on Inland navigation, 538, 541. State House, 542. Wyoming, (1784,.) 551, 552, 557–561. Jurisdiction of Islands in Del., 611,710. Act restor-
Page 770
770 INDEX. ing lands at Wyoming, 657. Re- moval of Henry Shoemaker as a jus- tice, 695. Petition from Wyoming, 699–704. Boundary line N. Y.- Jurisdiction, &c., of Islands, 710. Custom house Bonds, 711. Report on Wyoming recommitted,749. Elec- tion of J. Hamilton in Westmoreland Co., 750; do. of Persifer Frazer in Chester Co., as Register, &c., 756. Auctioneers for Philadelphia, elected by assembly, 206, 209. Ballot, voting by, Censors inquire of Council respecting, 302. Answer of Council, 306. Baltimore, Comm'rs on boundary with Virg'a, meet and agree at, 96. Barbary Powers, memorial from mer- chants on captures by, 410, 411, 705. Barclay Thomas, free ports of France, 267. Barracks at Lancaster 233, 237, 307. At Philadelphia, 239, 241, 261,268, 276, 737. Bartholomew, Edw'd, appointed Collec- tor of Excise, 442. Bayard, Col., commands at Fort Pitt, (1783,) 167. Delegates to Congress, 534. Baynton, John, Collector of Tonnage, statement respecting, 511. Beatty, Ercurius, and F. Bowen, Agt's to distribute certificates to Penn'a Line–Report, 437, 596; resign, (1784,) 604. Resumed, 605. Bedford Co., M. Doane in jail at, 112. Prisoners to be sent to Lancaster. 119 Census of white males under 53, 512. Berks Co., list of officers of the militia in, 190, 331. Troops to march to Wyoming, 345. Biddle, Charles, elected W. P., 527. Letter respecting Chinese, &c., 527. Billiard Tables, taxes on, Phil'a, 222, 224. Billingsport, Returns of Military Stores at, 284. Bills of credit, signing, 456. Bishop, an American, letters relating to consecration of in Denmark and Eng- land. 433–435. Consecration of Bishops White and Provost, 434. Blaine, Ephraim, payment of interest on City lots, 609. Boggs, James, instructions to, from Gen. Irvine, respecting land oppo- site to Fort Pitt, 115. Boggs, Martha, reserved lands oppo- site Fort Pitt, 699. Boudinot, Elias, Letter, 74. Boundary with New York, 412, 413, 414, 422, 435, 444, 450, 454, 710. Commissioners on, 422,450. Boundary with Indians, 418. Boundary line between Penn'a and Virg'a, report to, and resolution of Assembly, 8, 56, 72, 95, 96. Col. Cox &c., 96, 125. 131. Gov. Har- rison on, 56, 72, 77, 95, 96, 145, 171. Comm'rs appointed by Virg'a, 146, 336; by Penn'a, 223, 230, 233,236, 269, 372, 373. 412, 413, 428, 438, 439, 489, 506, 573, 602, 608. Boundary, the western, described, 439. Commissioners, 443, 452, 760. Bowdoin, Gov. James, of Massachu- setts, letters to Congress on insul- ting correspondence of Captatn Henry Stanhope, 499–506. Boyd, Alex'r, elected Auctioneer for Philad'a, 206, 209. Boyd, John, letter of Council to, res- pecting Wyoming, 307. Appointed Comm'r to, 330; letter, 627. Bradford, Wun., Att'y Gen'i, case of T. Matlack, 202, 635. Case of Big Spring tract, 712. Fees in Montg'y Co., 743. List of Comm'rs Taxes, &c., 494. Militia fines, 748. Brant, Capt., 88. Breckenridge, H. M., delivers an eulo- gium on those who fell in the Revo- lution, (1779,) 162. British and German clothing deficient, British Commercial arrangements, rem- edy for evils of, 152. British merchants complain of griev- ances from America, 745. Brodhead, Gen'l Dan'l, (1779,) 161. See Wol. VII. Bryan, Hon. Geo., answer to questions of Council on Justices of the pence, 16 to 19. Comun'rs on boundary, (1783,) 171. On trial of Indian for murder, 473. On case of Doane, 609. Buchanan, Col., his Battalion of Cum- berland Co, (1779,) 161. (See Wol. VII.) Bucks Co., Sheriff of, on arrest of Serg't Nagle, 67. Death of Major Kennedy by Robers, (1783,) 178. Orders to Troops to march to Wyoming, 345. Case of Solomen Wickers, 432. Ban- ditti from, on frontiers, 583. Aaron Doane, 597. Robber of Treasury in jail, 698. , Buffalo Creek, prisoners taken by Ind'ns on (1783,) 167. Butler, Col Rich'd, 69, 88, 294. Con-
Page 771
INDEX. 771 * ference with him and A. Lee, on Indian treaties, 295. and Lee to Council, on officers, 332. Butler, William, proposes printing office at Pittsburg, 421. Butler, Zebulon, &c., petition, 559, 580, 613. C. Caldwell, Sam’l, respecting Hog Island, (See Wol. IX,) 185. Canterbury, Archbishop of, refuses to consecrate American Bishops, 434. Carberry, Henry, and Sullivan affair of, 61, 74; correspondence, &c., with Maryland respecting, 290–293; delegates on, 575, 576; depositions, &c., 576–580; letter Gov. of Mary- ..land, 320; instructions to Sheriff, 323; Gov. Paca, respecting, 324. Carleton, Sir Guy, letter relating to pre- liminaries of peace and termination of hostilities, 13; robber in N. Y., 101, 131. Carmathen, (British Secretary,) to Mr. Adams, complaining of grievances to British creditors, 746. Censors, Council of, Resolutions, &c., of, 149, 153, 302, 329, 327, 333, 336, 363, 596, 604, 605, 656: on voting by ballot, 302; answer, 316. Census of Bedford Co., 512. Chesapeake and Delaware, connection proposed, 540. Chester Co., wagons stopped in, with British clothing, 12; wagoners' names, 13 ; execution of David Daw- son of, 609; Persifer Frazer appointed Register of Wills and Recorder of Deeds in, 756. Chevaux de Frizes, removal of, 93, 144– 146, 177, 210, 212, 219, 221, 349, 350, 565, 585; Number and situation, (1784,) 590. Chinese, sick from an Indiaman, and 34 others—and crew of the Pallas– seek and obtain aid, 527, 528; reso- lution of Ass"bly, 531; Levi Hollings- worth respecting, 546, 548. Chippewa Indians, 16. Chrystie, Capt. James, arrives at Eas- ton with a detachment, 135; at Fort Dickinson, 209. Circulars to Prothonotaries, 268. Clinton, Gen., arrives at Fort Sullivan, 719. Clinton, Gov. George, of N. Y., on boundary, 422, 435, 458, 513. Clinton, James, appointed commissioner. on boundary with N. Y., 450. Clothing, 6, 7, 12, 13. Coats, Lieut. Col. William, 759. Commerce, resolution of Congress on regulation of, 507–8. Commerce—internal—proceedings of Assembly respecting, 128; commis- sioners appointed, 730. Commissioners on boundary, 230, 233, 236, 372, 373,438, 489, 506; anxious to be correct, 236; report, 506. Commissioners on northern boundary ask for a transit instrument, 4., 6. Commissioners of Bucks, 75. Commissioners for defence of Del., 26. Commissioners of Cumberland, 79. Commissioners of land office, 541, 545. Commissioners to treat with Indians appointed, 265; letter from, 266, 332; instructions, 320; from Pres. respecting prisoners, 325; arrive at Fort Stanwix, 346; treaty with Six nations, 357, 395,410, 489, 496, 610 ; obligation to deliver goods, &c., to Indians, 610. Commissioners Lancaster Co., 82. Commissioners appointed to examine Roads and Rivers for internal com- merce, 129, 130, 312, 533, 710. Commissioners Northampton Co., 92. Commissioners of Philadelphia, object to appropriating site of Jail for an Exchange, 104; old iron, 307. Commissioners to take possession of Pittsburg when relinquished by United States, 477,498. Commissioners on navigation of Sus- quehanna river, 755. Commissioners of Taxes for Phila. Co., 51, 222, 224, 238. Commissioners on trade of United States appointed by Virginia, 738. Commissioners of Washington Co., 584, 587. Commissioners of Westmoreland on supplies, 98. Commissioners on Wyoming, corres- pondence with, 30–37; to magis- trates as to safety, 662; answer, 663; to Pres. Dickinson, 664; advertise- ment, 669; letter from inhabitants to, 671 ; to Pres. Dickinson, 677. Conference with Indians at Onandago, 63; for purchase of lands from, 105. Confiscated estates, agents to report, 154; Hog Island, 185. Congress, letters to and from, 7, 27, 61, 62, 98, 135, 151, 193, 206, 231, 234, 263, 358, 371, 397, 441,442, 457, 461, 472, 488, 490, 507, 514, 532, 535, 539, 543, 544, 549, 736, 745, 754; resolu- tions of, 7, 27, 46, 90, 105,136, 139, 168, (1783) 179,194,239,242,369,507, 520, 524,528, 536, 543, 544, 549, 550, 561, 562, (1784) 566,590, 716; dele



Page 772
1772 INDEX. gates to, 7, 25, 38, 45, 48, 52, 53, 73, 101,126, 151, 154, 155, 156, 184, 204, 209, 243, 358, 369, 405, 410, 440, 457, 477,488, 511, 534, 549, 556, 563, 575, 581, 593, 601, 697, 705, 713, 759, 768 —to arrange for claims in treaty, 7; treaty with Indians on peace, 45,46; finances, 233; delivery of new prison, 52; maintaining garrison at Fort Pitt. 53; attack expected at Phila., 61; public documents taken to be restored to England, 90; Indian affairs, 101; on purchase of lands by Pennsylvania from Indians, 105; report on Indian affairs, 119–125; proclamation for thanksgiving for peace, 134; removal of seat of Gov- ernment, 136–139; on full represen- tation, 139, 153, 156; care of arms, artillery, &c., 154; gratuity to Washington, 155,185; debate whether seven states can ratify treaty of peace, 156, 184, 193; Loan office, (1783,) 169; financial plan, (1780,) rejected by Va., 173; commutations in lieu of half pay to officers, 179; Wash- ington, renounces his commission, 183, (1783); treaty of peace ratified by nine states, 193; court for deter- mining right of soil at Wyoming, 194, 204, 210, 216, 231; representation not full, 206; members attending, 207; states represented in, 220; importance of full representation from each state, 239; arrears of interest on national debt, 242-256, 263; delegates to, elected, 354; proceedings in case of Longschamps, 358; Richard Henry Lee elected President of 359; delays in settling French accounts, 369; accounts, 371; John Jay elected secretary of foreign affairs, 401, 557; claims of Penna., 405, 424; captures by Barbary powers, 410, 411; delegates elected to, 437; may appoint Commissioners on boun- ary, 440; respecting troops for efence of frontiers, 440; laying off States in western territory, 457; soldiers' certificates, 461 ; relief of disabled soldiers and seamen, 472; asks for copies of journal, 488; sends journal to States, 493; papers relating to Gov. of Massachusetts and Captain Stanhope, 499; commerce—States to vest with power to regulate for 15 years, &c., 508, 738; proportion of officers and privates to be furnished by Pennsylvania, 511; report on national debt, 514-520; resolution on loan office, 520–523; issue of certificates to continental army, 524; military claims, 528, 535; state of representation, 532; certificates for soldiers, 536; short representation, 537; John Hancock elected presid’t, 539; copies of journals, 543; ratifi- cation of definitive treaty, 549; Temple, Consul Gen. from Great Britain, 544; treaty with , Indians, 549; Wyoming, (1784,) 550, 563, 716; appointment of delegates, 562; removal of seat of government, 566– 574, (1784) 575; committee of States to act in recess, 566; indemnification to Washington, 575; temporary form of Government for western territory, 575; Captain Carberry, 575, 576; petition of Z. Butler, 581,716; collec- tion of debts, 590; removal of papers from Annapolis, 601 ; propose places for the public buildings and seat of government, 697; on Barbary powers, 705; Longschamps—Wyºming, 706; complaint of Thomas Shields, 715, report on revenue system, 732–735; acknowledgment of Sieur de la For- rest as vice consul of France, 733; provision for disabled soldiers and seamen, 745. Connecticut and Wyoming—[See Wyo- ming]; resolutions of Assembly of, 116, 117; proclamation of Governor Trumbull, 146; letters to and from Gov., 147, 148, 213; resolution of Assembly of Penna., 204; com- plained of, 204; claims, 398; claim- ants disposed to violence to Benj. Luee to depart, 679; memorial of John Franklin to Assembly of, 681; resolutions of Assembly on ditto, 683; cession proposed by, 760. Cornwallis, Lord, operations at south, (1780,) 173. Council of Censors, resolutions of, 149, #. 302, 306, 326, 327, 333, 336, 363, 546, Counterfeit loan office certificates in circulation, 447. County Lieutenants—circular, to Bat- talion districts, 419. Cox, Lieut. Col. Gabriel, suits against, arising from boundary with Virginia, 81, 96, 125, 131 ; letter to Michael Huffnagle, 125. Craig, Thomas, Lieutenant of North- ampton Co.——letters of Council to, respecting Wyoming, 296, 303, 305. Creveceur, Mons., letter to, from Pres. Dickinson, 195, (1784) 550. Cumberland Co., commissioners on taxes, 79; Indians in, (1779) 159; —(See Vol. XII.)—return of sheriffs, 1777 to 1783, 285; officers of militia in, 599, 600. –
Page 773
INDEX. 773 - Cummings, Lieut. John, Indian mur- ders, &c., 22. J.D. Davis, Thomas, contractor for building piers in R. Delaware, 456, 713. Dawson, David, of Chester Co., exe- cuted, 609. De Brussine & Garrison propose to re- move Chevaux de frize, 144–145. specting Wyoming—Mr. Tidd, 196. Respecting escape of C. J. Longa- champ, 271-274. Respecting ruins at Pittsburg, 463-464. Against Henry Carberry, 576–580. James Bell, 594. Phillip Jenkins, 594. Mark Halfpenny, 597. Robert Gib- son, 598. John Boyd, 621. William Brink, 621-623. Col. J. Armstrong, 623. Respecting Wyoming, 631-638, 649–652. Taken at Wyoming, 653, 659–662, 688, 691. John Leith, on Indian Robberies, 763. De Grasse, Count, present of cannon Deserters from American Regiment,388. for, 59. Delany, Sharp, (Collector) on Memo- rial of Cap. Darie, 97. Heavy de- mand, 441, 715. Delaware river, equipping armament to defend, 26. Removal of Chevaux de frize, 95, 144. Commissioners appointed to examine, 130. Inquiry respecting Islands above falls, 130. Falls of, as seat of government, 137. Proposals of De Brussine & Garrison to remove chevaux de frize, 93, 144– 146,349, 350, 565. Resolutions of As- sembly on removing, (1783) 177, 210. Amount expended for improve- ment, 240. Military stores at Fort Island and Billingsport, 284, (1784.) Removal of chevaux de frizes, 34), 350. Jurisdiction of Islands, 130, 366, 696. Federal buildings on the Delaware, 693. Piers to be erected, 407. Contract for, 456. Proposals, 471, 713. Improvements contem- plated by the Wardens, (1784) 571. Buoys taken away, 580. Beacon on Cross Ledge, 588. Chevaux de frizes, 589, 606, 607. Jurisdistion of Islands, 611, and navigation of, 710. Inquiry as to ownership of Islands in the River, 739. Delaware, State of, inland navigation, 538, 540. Delawares, (Indians,) 85, 86. Delegates in Congress, letters to, 25, 27, 45, 48, 52, 69, 72, 101, 126, 151, 154, 155, 156, 184, 204, 210, 223, 358, 369,397, 405, 410, 440, 457, 476, 534, 549, 564, 592, 681,697,705, 713, 759, 768. On gratuity to Gen. Washington, 151. Election of, 354, 437, 534. No. of, 564. Denmark, willing to consecrate Ameri- can Bishops. Letters from Mr. De St. Saphorin, &c., 434. De Peyster, Lt. Col., A. S., on Indian negotiations, 86, 89. Depositions, respecting Joseph Doane, 110. Mahlon Doane, 111, 112. James Oellers, (1780) 161. Re- De Witt, Simeon, appointed to run boundary line with N. Y., 450. Dickinson, Fort, 184. Troops at, 189. Deep snow at, 197. Commanded by Major Moore—money wanted to pay debts, 209. Freshet at, 222. Dickinson, James, conference with Indian Chiefs on survey of Donation Lands, 740. Dickinson, Pres., John, calls attention ~ of Judges to moral education of youth, 523. Ceases to be President, 527. Digby, Rear Admiral, Robt., views under preliminaries of peace, 21. Directory, first published in Philadel- phia, 271. Doane, Aaron, petition for pardon, 348, 716,717. Deposition against, (1784) 597. In prison, 598. Judge Bryan on, 609. Doane, Abm., troubles Washington Co., 594. Doane, Joseph, respecting arrest of, 110, 114, 152. Petition of captors, 565, 582. Doane, Mahlon, deposition respecting arrest of, l 11, 112. Donaldson, Arthur, assists L. H. in removing chevaux de frize, 349,350. Dougherty, B., and D. Espy, deposition respecting M. Doane, 112, To send prisoners to Lancaster, 119. Douglass, Major Ephraim, on Indian negotiations, 62, 70, 83. Elections, 262, 696. Memorial for office in Fayette Co., 118, 553. Justices, 464, 582. No sheriff in Fayette, 588. Drais, Daniel, taxes on confiscated estates, 150. Duke of Normandy, birth of, announced by Sec'y Jay, as a cause of pleasure, 476. Duncan, David, and John Finley, apply for Fort Melntosh as a place of Indian trade, 704. Duponceau, Peter S., applies to be Notary and Interpreter—his testi- monials, &c., 351–353.

33+
Page 774
774 INDEX. Duvall, G., of Md., letter respecting Henry Carberry, 291. Answer of Judges of Supreme Court to, 292. Easton, Cap. Chrystie, arrives with a detachment at, 135. Petition of Wyoming prisoners at, 690. Eckert, Valentine, returns of officers in Berks Co. Militia, 190. Education of youth, and moral training urged on Judges by Pres. Dickinson, 3. Election returns must be certified by Constable or Overseer of the Poor, 284. Of Matthew Irvin, as Recorder of Deeds, Phila., 707. Ellicott, Andrew, appointed Western boundary, 452. Elliott, Mr., Indian Agent, 84,85. England, objects to consecration of American Bishops without Test Oath, 434. English vessel assumes French colors, complaint against, 175. Erie, Lake-Commissioners to inquire whether any part of it is in the State, 129. Ewing, Rev. John, Comm'ron Virginia Boundary, (1783) 171,230,438, 440. Resigns, 428, 443. Comm. on Sus- quehanna R., 755. to run F. Fallowfield, T., election, 364. Fayette, Co., formed from Westmore- land Co., 118, 184. Appointments of Lieutenants not satisfactory, 265. Returns of Field Officers in, 275. Memorial, 280. Troubles from Wir- ginians, 280. Agent to, 450. No Sheriff, 588. Depositions respecting attacks on Collectors, 593, 594. J. Story opens office for adjusting claims, Fayette, Marquis de La, addresses In- dians at Fort Stanwix, 346. Finley, Rev. James, sent to Westmore- land on secret expedition in relation to a new state, 40, 41. Instructions to, 163, (1783.) Finney, Capt., marches for Fort Pitt, 337. Fitzsimons, Nicholas, appointed keeper of Province Island, 74. Fitzsimons, Thomas, inquiry of effect of peace on goods from G. B., 28. Letter, 48. Flag, State, raised on Market street hill, 38. Flag, a Spanish, drawing of a, sent to the Gov., 743. Fleeson, Plunket, resigns presidency of Court, in favor of Ed. Shippen, 523. Fort Island, returns of military stores at, 284. Forts, Billingsport, 284. Dickinson, 184, 189,209,222. Fort Island, 284. 509. McIntosh, 109, 391, 406, 448, 466, 704. Pitt, 53, 83, 95, 115, 140, 167, (1783) 337, 345, 462, 483, Rice, 165. Stanwix, 489. Sullivan, 719. Fox, Edward, Comm'rs oath, 103. France, vessel from, brings despatches respecting preliminaries of peace between Great Britain and United States, 10, 11. Colors of, on an Eng- lish vessel complained of, 175. Let- ter to minister, interest on Certifi- cates, 223. Free ports appointed in, 267. Chevalier Luzerne leaves Phila., 279-282. Minister com- plains of interest not paid, 355. Quarantine regulations from plague, 356. Debt to, 386. Sieur de La- Forest, Vice Consul, 735. Francis, Tench, appointed Commissio- ner for division and sale of Barrack lots in Philadelphia, 240, 241, 261. Franklin Co., no marriage licenses re'ed there, 329. Formed, (1784), 603. Franklin, Benj., elected a member of Council, then presidnt of it, and then president of the State, 527. Letter from, (1784) 556. Franklin, Col. John, to officers of the Garrison at Wyoming to surrender, 621. To Pres. Dickinson, 672, Me- morial to Conn. Ass., 681. Resolu- tions of Assembly on do., 683. Letter to, from Joseph Hamilton, 751. Frazer, Persifor, elected Register of Wills and Recorder of Deeds in Chester Co., 756. French and Sugar creeks, surveys be- :* land bad near Allegheny R., Freshet, heavy, at Fort Dickinson, 222. Fullerton, Major Richard, asks powder for 3d Philadelphia Battalion, 759. G. Galbraith, Robert, respecting Indian murderer, 466. Boundaries, 756. Gardner, Joseph, elected member of Congress, 354, 437, letters to and from, 405, 526.
Page 775
INDEX. 775 º, 44 liás * * Governor of Del., 504. Maryland, 293, 320,324,527, 528, 540, 542, 543, 744, * 753. Mass., letter to, 354, 499, 500, 503, 504. New Jersey, 103, 366,458, * 730. New York, 413, 435, 450, 513. • North Carolina, 353. South Caro- lina, 79. Virginia, letters to and from, 56,72, 77, 05, 96, 145, 175, 602, 608. G. Britain, and U. States preliminaries of peace signed, 8. letter of Sir Guy, Carleton, 13. Rear Admiral Digby's | letter, respecting prisoners, 21. In- quiry, respecting goods from, 28. J. Temple, commissioned, Consul Gen., 544. Guerard, Ben'j, Gov. of S. Carolina, asks for a list of Traitors, 79. It is Hamilton, Joseph, to Col. John Frank- lin, on Wyoming affairs, 751. Hand, Gen. Edw'd, (1779,) 159, (see Vol. VII.) Hanna's Town, Indian murder near, 22, as County town of Westmoreland, 91. Harden, Major John, recommendation of, 610. Harmar, Lieut. Col. Josiah, instructions for recruiting, 309, letter from, 311, 316. Returns of recruits, &c., at heights of Schuylkill, 323. Returns of troops, 337. Indian Treaties, 394, 470. Troops leave for Fort Pitt, 345, 391. Returns of Troops, 390, 393, 403, 431, 446, 480, 490,492. * Situation of Fort McIntosh, 406, 448. New Regiment, 455. Officers will- ing to continue, 465. Discharges, 469, 479. Pay of Officers, 484. Re- cruiting, 490, 509. To retain the Troops, 496. Recruiting, &c., 509. Harrison, Gov. Benj., of Virginia, on Boundary, 56, 72, 77, 95, 96, 145, 175, 602, 608. Hartly, David, letter to Dr. Franklin, on Mr. Jay's return, (1784,) 557. Hartly's Regiment, (1779,) 159, (see Vol. VII.,) 366. Hays, Christopher, Indians murder on frontiers, &c., 264. Respecting ap- pointments in Fayette Co., 265. Affairs in Westmoreland, 279. Heineken, J. H., Christian, recognized as Consul for U. Netherlands, at Philadelphia, 446. Hellstedt, Charles, commissioned as Swedish Consul, Philadelphia, 362. Henry, William, elected member of Congress, 354, 437, 534. Letter, 405. Hessian Troops, clothing, deficiency of, 6 Hillegas, Michael, appointed Commrs. for division and sales of barrack lots, 239, 241, 261. Hodgdon, Sam’l, 39, 59. Cannon for | Count de Grasse, 59. | Hollingsworth, Levi, & Arthur Donald- son, remove Chevaux de frize, from R. Del., 349. Complimentary letter to, from Pres. Dickinson, 350. Hollingsworth, Levi, report respecting | Chinese, 537, 546, 548. Hopkinson, Francis Judge, A. C. fees, 58. Escape of a vessel to Delaware, attached at Marcus Hook, when launched, 355. Fees, 707. Appointed Comm'r on navigation of Susque- hanna river, 755. Hubley, Adam, respecting Fort Sul- livan, and operations in New York, 719. Hubley, John, burning of Court House at Lancaster, 278. Huffnagle Michael, respecting Col. Cox, 125. Timber on lands opposite Pittsburg, 140,141. Settlers on, 429. Destruction of garrison ruins, 429. Orders to, respecting Manellan Township, 747. Tippling houses, &c., 186. Election at Pittsburg, 211. Sale of ruins of Garrison at Pittsburg, 462. Murder by Indians, 465,467. On Indian Robberies, 763. Humphrey, Joshua, jr., proposes to build piers at Marcus Hook, 471. Humpton, Col. Rich'd, letter to, on soldiers at Lancaster, 59. Hunt, John, remonstrance, (1777.) against treatment, by order of Coun- cil, 158, (see Vol. VI. 589.) Hutchins, Tho's, appointed a Comm'r, to examine roads and rivers for in- ternal commerce, 129, 130. Ap- pointed Commrs. on Virginia Boun- dary, 223. Commr., 334,438,440. Hutchinson, Dr. James, on condition of Hospital on State Island, 178. To Gen. Irwin, on 4 men burned at fire- works in Phila., 218. I. Imposts, on arrears of, report, 378. Indians, murders by, 15, 22, 167, 265, 464. Affairs, 25, 46, 53, 83–90, 119– 125, 168, 265, 294,295, 317,410,554. Treaty of peace proposed, 45, 62. Hostilities on frontiers, 53. Con- ference at Onandago, 63. Report, E. Douglass on negociations with, 62, 70, 83. Captain Pipe, 83, 84, 85. Council at Detriot, 84. Warious



Page 776
776 INDEX. tribes, 84--90. Congress do not object to Pennsylvania holding a conference with, for purchase of lands, 105. Resol. of Assembly respecting pur- chase of lands from, 111. Report to Congress on Indian affairs, 119—125, 126. Treaty with, 152. In Cumber- land Co., (1779,) 159,161. Take Mrs. Walker and others and kill on Buf- falo and Short creeks, (1783,) 167. Commrs. appointed to hold treaty with lndians, 265. Conference with Lee and Butler on treaties with, 295. Report and resolutions of Assembly on, 316. List of goods for purchas- ing lands from, 318. Commrs., 320. On restoration of prisoners, 325, 326. Expenses on transportation of goods to, heavy,332. Commrs. to treat with, arrive at Fort Stanwix, 346. Layfatte addresses, 346. Negociation of Commrs. with Six Nations of, 357, Pine Creek, alias Tiadaughton, of treaty of 1768, 357. Answer of Six Nations, 357. Deed from, 360. Treaty at Fort Mc- Intosh, 391, 395. Boundary with, 418. Murder by, Mamaughtaguie opposite Pittsburg, 465. Indian in prison, 466. Judge Bryan, respect- ing his trial, 473. Commrs. for treaty with, 489. List of goods for, 497. To be delivered by W. Mac- lay, and explanations respecting hunting on their lands 510. A pass requested, for T. & J. Killbuck, In- dian hostages, returning home, 526. Speech of Sir J. Johnson, 554. Indian treaty on boundary with United States, 562. Obligation of Commrs. to deliver goods, &c. to, 610. Conference with “Whole Face” and “Long Hair,” on survey of dona- tion lands, 740. Segonkguas and Conhomew, 741. Indian Robberies, 763. Instructions to Robinson and Shrawder, 99. To Sergt. Lee and McClure, 109. Gen. Irvine to Jas. Boggs, 115, To Major Moore, 127, 132. To Rev. James Finley, 163, (1783.) To Capt. Shrawder, 165, (1783.) To Commrs. on Boundary with Virginia, 230. To Lieut. Col. Harmar, 309. To Commrs. to treat with Indians, 320. To Col. Proctor, respecting H. Carbery, 323. To Commrs. at Wyoming, 330. To Sheriff Antes, to arrest persons at Wyoming 344. To Wm. Irwine as land agent, 427. Internal commerce proceedings of As- sembly, and Merchants, 128, 130. Irvine, Hon. James, letter to, on pris- Instructions to oners to be discharged, 26. Disturb- ances in Washington Co., 467. Re- tires from V. Presidency, 527. Case of Doane and Dawson, 609. Irvine, Gen. William, respecting sale of Lands, 56, 66. At Fort Pitt, 95. Instructions to Sergts., respecting Fort McIntosh, 109. Instructions from, relative to lands opposite to Fort Pitt, 115. Agreement with Mr. Boggs, 140. Letter from Dr. Hutch- inson, 218. Recommended as land agent, 425. Instructions to, 427. Surveys between French and Sugar Creeks, 509. Irwin, Gen., letter to, from Dr. Hutch- inson. Four men burned by fire- works in Phila., 218. Irwin, John, no civil magistracy in Pittsburg, 289. Irwin, Mathew, elected Recorder of Philadelphia, 707. J. Jack, James, Magistrate's Commis- sions, new and old differ, 264. Jackson, David, elected delegate to Congress, 437. Letter, 522. Jail, site of, for an exchange in Phila., 104. Jay, Hon. John, elected, by Congress, Secr'y of foreign affairs—his duty, &c., 401, 402, 557. Laws of State sent to, 407. Transmits a letter from Mons Marbois, 409. And from John Adams, relative to consecration of American Bishops, 433. Respecting a Spanish sailor, 499. Representa- tives do not attend, 538. About to return from Europe, (1784,) 557. Vice Consul of France, 735. Re- specting Spanish flag, 743. Inquiry, 759. Jenkins, John, letter on Wyoming, 37. Jewish Congregation of Philadelphia invites President, &c., to attend con- secration of Synagogue in Cherry St., (1782,) 731. Johnson, Jacob, letter on Wyoming, 34 Johnson, Sir John, at Detroit, Indian Council, 84, 87. Speech to Indians, 554. Johnston, Benj., respecting lands from Virginia, 611. Johnston, Col. Francis, treat with Indians 265. Commr. to On land Office, 282. On restoration of pris- oners 325, 326, Counterfeit certifi- cates, 453. " Jordan, Capt., of Artillery artificers
Page 777
INDEX. 777 R. Keiser, Seck and thirty-four others, Chinese, &c., are landed sick and in destitute condition from an India- man named Pallas, 526. Their case stated to Governor of Maryland, 527. His answer, 528. Resolution of Assembly, 531. Levi Hollingsworth report respecting them, 533, 546, 548. Kelly, William, resignation required as Justice of Peace, 419. Kennedy, Major, killed in attempt to securo robbers, grant by Assembly to his family, 178, (1783.) Kern, Nicholas to Jno. Armstrong,654. I. Lancaster, disorderly soldiers at, 59. Fears of the Bank being attacked, 60. Soldiers march from Phila- delphia to, 62. Mutiny proposed to Genl. de Armand's and Col. Moylan's troops, 62. Prisoners to be sent from Bedford Jail to, 119. Barracks, &c., care of, 233, 236. Court-house burned, 278. Jno. Schreiber in charge of barracks, &c., damages to them, 309, 334. Muster rolls, 394. A par- don asked for Abraham Bare, 396. Malconduct of judges of election, 713. Land office, opening of, 282. Objec- tions to the law, 283. Titles, 414, 416, 611. Counterfeit certificates, 453. Sales of lands, 536, 537, 537, 541, 545, 547. Inquiry as to owner- ship of islands in the rivers, 739. Conference with Indians respecting survey of donation lands, 740. Lands and lots, surveys of, 53, 56, 65, 414, 506. Purchase by T. Proctor, 420. On Alleghany river, settling, 429. Sales, 541, 602, 603. Latimer, George, appointed commis- missioner on navigation of Susque- hanna river, 755. Lee, Arthur, on Indian treaties, 294. Conference with, and R. Butler, 295. to Col. F. Johnson respecting Indian prisoners, 326. and Butler to Coun- cil on officers, 332. Lee, Richard Henry, on boundary question—operations of Cornwallis, &c., (1780,) 173. Elected president, 359. Lee, Wm., Serj't, and McClure to take possession of Fort McIntosh, 109. Leith, John, deposition on Indian robberies, 763. Lenox, Maj. David, statement of his services, 754. LEtters— Adams, John, 384, 386, 433,434, 746. Agents of Confiscated Estates, 154. Allison, James, 167. Antes, Henry, Sheriff Northumberland, 344, 482, 650. Armstrong, John, Jr., Secy. 46, 53, 56, 63, 65, 78, 141, 147, 187, 199, 211, 238, 286, 327, 330,339 343, 345, 525. Armstrong, Lt. Col. John, 307, 315, 317, 319, 361. Arm- strong, Gen. John, 430, 653,654, 655, 658, 669, 677, 679,685, 686, 688, 692, 694. Armstrong, Capt. Wm. 12. As- sembly, 126, 195, 199,223, 226, 407, 427,428,692, 696, 697. Atlee, Samuel J. 333, 346, 360. Atlee, William, 394. Barclay, Thomas, 267. Bartholomew, Edw'd 442. Baynton, John, (Collect. of Tonnage,) 511. Blaine, Ephraim, 609. Board of Treasury, 527. Boggs, Mathew, 699. Boudinot, Elias, 74, 98. Bowdoin, James, Gov. of Massa- chusetts, 500, 503, 504. Bowen, E. F. & E. Beatty, 437, 596, 604, 605. Boyd, Hon. John, 307, 330. Boyd, and Armstrong, 591, 627, 630, 662, 664. Bradford, Wm. Jr., 202, 494. 655, 713, 743. Broadhead, Col, Daniel, 160. Brussine, De, and N. Garrison, 144. Bryan, George, 16, 73, 609. Bryan, Samuel, (Secy.) 327. Butler, Col. Richard, 69, 294, 332. Butler, William, 421. Caldwell, Samuel, 185. Carleton, Gen. Guy, 13, 101,131. Carleton, Joseph, Secy., War office, 314. Carmathen, Secy. 746. Censors, Council of, 153, 302, 306, 333, 336, 596, 604, 655. Chrystie, Cap. James 135, 209. Circulars, 284. Clinton, George, Gov. of New York, 205, 413, 422,435,450, 513. Coats, Lt. Col. William, 758. Commissioners, for sale of Barracks, 239, 240, 241, 261, 276, 737. Com- missioners, of Boundary Line, 233, 236 416, 438, 454, 489, 506. Com- missioners, (Boyd, &c.,) 307, 330, 339. Commissioners, of Cumberland Co., 79. Commissioners, for defence of Delaware. 26. Commissioners of Lands, 541, 545. Commissioners for treating with Indians, 265, 325, 332, 333, 346, 357, 395, 410, 489, 496. Commissioners of Roads, 533. Com- missioners, on navigation of Susque- hanna, 755. Comisssioners of Taxes, 238. Commissioners of Taxes, Bucks Co, 75. Commissioners, of Taxes Lancaster, 82. Commis’rs of Taxes, o Northampton, 92. Commissioners o

Page 778
778 INDEX. Taxes, Philadelphia, Co. 51, 104,222, 224. Commissioners of Philadelphia Co., 307. Commissioners, of Wash- ington Co., 136, 564, 584. Com- missioners of Westmoreland, Co., 98, 593. Commissioners to Wyoming, 664, 669, 677. Committee of Mer- chants, 210, 212, 219, 221. Con- gress, 60, 61, 74, 98, 135, 193, 206, 231, 234, 263,358, 368, 397, 417, 424, 433,440, 442, 457, 461, 473, 489, 493, 494, 499, 507, 530, 535, 537, 539, 543, 564, 732. 736, 745, 754. Circular, 424. Congress, Delegates, in, 7, 25, 27, 38, 45, 52, 55, 69, 72, 101, 126, 151, 154, 155, 156, 183, 184, 204, 210, 223, 358, 368, 397, 398, 410, 440, 457, 477, 511, 549, 556, 563, 575, 576, 581, 592, 601, 697, 705, 715,759. Connecticut, Gov. of 147, 148. Council of Cén- sors, 153,302, 306, 333, 336,596,604, 655, Cox, Gabriel, 125. Craig, Thomas, 296, 303, 305. Crawford, Edward, Jr., 392. Creveceur, Mons., 195. Cum- mins, Lt. John, 22. Delaney, Sharp, 97,442, 715. Dele- gates, in Congress, 7, 25, 27, 38, 45, 52, 55, 69, 72, 101, 126, 151,154, 155, 156, 183, 184,204, 210, 223, 358, 368, 397, 398, 410, 440, 457, 477, 511, 549, 556, 563, 575, 576, 581, 601, 697, 705, 715, 759, 768. De Marbois, Mons. 311, (See Marbois.) Depeyster, Col. A. S. 62. Dickinson, James, 740. Dickin- son, John, 77. Digby, Rear Adml. Robert, 21. Donaldson, Arthur, 350. Donaldson, John, 565, 583. Dough- erty, Barnard, 114, 119. Douglass, Ephraim, 62, 70, 71, 262, 553, 564, 581, 588,696. Duponceau, Peter S. 352. Duval, Hon. Gabriel, 291. Ellicott, Andrew, 452. Espy, David, 114, 119. Ewing, Rev'd Dr. John, 428,443. Filbert, Peter, Sher'ſfB C. 67. Finley, Revd. James, 40, 41, 163. Fitz- simons, Thomas, 28, 48. Fleeson, Plunket, 523. Francis, Tench, 240, 261,276. Franklin, Benjm. 386,556. Franklin, John, 621, 629, 672, 681, #. Fullerton, Major, Richard, 58. Galbraith, Robert, 466. Gardner, Joseph, 404, 516, 698. Gov. of Connecticut, 147, 148, 213. Gov. of Delaware, 540. Gov. of Maryland, 292, 320, 324, 526, 528, 540, 542, 543, 744, 753. Gov. of Massachusetts, 354, 500, 503, 504. Gov. of New Jersey, 103, 366,458, 730. Gov. of New York, 205, 353, 412, 450, 513. Gov. of North Carolina, 353. Gov. of South Carolina, 79. Gov. of Vir. f. 57, 145, 175, 602. Grand nquest, Philadelphia, 347. Guerard, Benj. Gov. South Carolina, 79. Gur- ney, Francis, 144. Hamilton, Joseph, 751. Harmar, Lt. Col. Josiah, 309, 311, 316, 322, 337, 345, 391, 394, 406, 430,448, 455,465, 469, 479, 483, 490, 508. Harrison, Gov. Benj, 57, 145, 175, 602, 608. Hartley, David, 557. Hays, Christo- her, 264, 279. Hellstedt, Charles, in. N. Nether'd 350, 362,408, 435. Henry, William, 405. Hillegas, Michael, 238, 261, 276. Hodgdom, Samuel, 39, 59. Hollingsworth, Levi, 350, 533, 546, 548. Hopkinson, Francis, 58, 355, 707, 755. Howe, Maj. Gen. 66. Hubley, Col. Adam, 718. Hubley, John, 278. Huff- magle, Michael, 125, 140, 141, 147, 186, 211, 429, 462, 464, 467, 763. Humpton, Col. Richd. 59. Hutch- inson, Dr. James, 178,218, Inhabitants of Wyoming, 670. Irvine, Hon. James, 26,458, 467, 609. John, Irwine, 289. Irvine, Gen. Wm. 56, 66, 218, 509. Jacks, James, 264. Jackson, Hon. David, 522. Jay, Hon. John, Secy. F. A. 401, 407, 433, 446, 499, 538, 735, 743, 759. Jefferson, Thomas &c., 386. Jenkins, John, 33. Johnston, Benj. 611. Johnston, E. & W. Bald- win, 679. Johnson, Col. Francis, 282, 325, 326, 333, 453. Johnson, Jacob, 34. Judges, of Supreme Court 448, 460, 523. Justices of Northumberland, 628, 629, 630. Justices of Wyoming, 662. Kern, Nicholas, 654. Land Office, 536, 537, 739. Lee, Arthur, 294, 326, 332. Lee, Rich'd Henry, 173. Levers, Robert, 341. Lieutenants, (County,) 286, 345, 410, 419. Livingston, R. R. Secy, 9, 13, 21. Livingston, Gov. Wilm, of N. J. 103, 713. Loan, Office, 57, 168, 169, 174, 514. Longschamps, 742. Luce, Benjamin, 679. Lukens, John, S. G. 53, 65, 95, 451, 458, 506, 740, 756. Luzerne, Chev. de la,278,282. Lyon, William, 285. McClean, Alexander, 294. McClean, Brig. Gen. Allan, 70, 71. McDowell, Surgeon John, 343. McKean, C. J. Thomas, iit, 383,390,293,393, is, 739, 766. Maclay, William, 46, 346, 418, 444, 510. Magistrates and Shrºffs of North'ld Co. 295, 304, 344, 347,460. Managers of State Lottery, 362,372, 400, 468, 474, 513. Marbois, Mons. Barbe, de, 175, 277, 283, 350, 351, 356. Marbois, Mons. de, 311, 351,
Page 779
INDEX. 779 º 197, 207. 222, 232, 354, 362,367, 368,409, 430,440, 447, 47 l. Massachussetts, Gov. of, 354. Matlack, Timothy, 226. Mead. David, 222, 404, 482, 663,707. Merchants, Committee, of 210, 212, 219, 221,406, 409, 418 Mitilin, Thos, 183. Milli- gan, Robert. 755. Milligan, James, 426. Minister of France, 223,409. Minister of Holland, 415. Minister, of United Netherlands, 350, 362, 408, 435. Montgomery, Hon. John, 206, 220. Montgomery, Joseph, Ch'n. 30, 32, 444. Montgomery, William, 765, 766, 767. Moore, Lt. Col. 286. Moore, Major, James, 132, 185, 187, Moore, William, 93. Morales, Francis, 476. Morgan, George, 526. Muhlenberg, F. A. 153. Murray, Lt. Francis, 679. New Jersey, Gov. of, 103, 366,458. New York, Gov. of, 205, 353, 435, 450. Nicholson, John, 6, 16, 28, 46, 48, 50, 52, 53, 93, 95, 6, 97, 481, 529, 750. Northumberland Magis- trates, and Sheriff, 295, 304, 344, 347, North Carolina, Gov. of, 350. Officers of Pennsylvania Line, 425, 592. Okeley, John, 330,339, 696. Owen, Griffith, 563. Paca, John, 292. Paca, William, Gov. of Maryland, 320, 324. Parker, Wm. 167. Patterson, Alex Chn. 30, 32, 35, 208, 574, 617, 619, 624, 626, 627, 675. Peale, Charles, W. 162. Pear- son, James, 373,420, 426, 442, 535, 547. Pentecost, Dorsey, 167, 181, 262, 413, 757. Pettit, Charles, 208, 497. Phile, Frederick, 240. Phipps, Paul, 359. Pierce, John, 536, 539. Porter, Andrew, 372, 760. Potter, Gen. James, 47, 159. Proctor, Thos. Shr'ff Philadelphia, 286, 323, 324, 327, 420. Prothonotaries, 268, 439. Prothonotary, of Washington County, 78. Read, James, 330, 339. Receiver Gen. of Land office, 546. Redick, David, 416. Reed, Joseph, 157,159, 160, 163, 719, (1779-80) Reynolds, John, 277, 327. Rittenhouse, David, 241, 269, 439, 454, 455, 456, 458, 730. Robins, Ezekiel, 26, 213. Robinson, Capt. Thos. 14,48, 99. Rosencrone, Count. de, 434. Rush, Hon. Jacob, 292, Ryan, Michael, 308. St. Clair, Gen. Anthony, 49, 260,483. St. Saphorin, de 434. Schreiber, John, 309, 334. Scott, Thomas, 65, 78, 80,364. Scott, Lt. William, 591 Seely, Jonathan, 650, 677, 678, 692. Secretary of foreign affairs, 9, 18, 21, 401, 407,433,446, 475, 499, 538, 735, 743, 759. Shaw, William, 764. Shoe- maker, B. 93 Shrawder, Cap. Philip, 23, 24, 99, 104, 131. Slough, Mathias, 237. Smallwood, Gov. of Maryland, 542, 543,744, 753. Smith, Thomas, 57, 78, 168, 170,174, 190, 447, 461. Smith, W. and W. Kelly, 419. Smith, Wm. Hooker, 760. Siny ser, Jacob, 77. South Carolina, Gov. of 79. Sproat, David, 68. Sproat Rev. James, 720. Stanhope, Henry (Brit. Captn.) 503, 504. Steuben, Baron, 352. Story, John, 450, 451, 742. Street, Commissioners, Philadelphia, 55. Surveyor, Gen. 53, 65. Taylor, Timothy,432. Trumbull. Gov. Jon. of Connecticut, 147, 148 213. Trustees of Loan Office, 481,532, 545. Trustees, of Province Isld. 75. Trus- "tees of Westmoreland, Co., 91. Turn- bull, Marmee, & Co., 281. Van Berekal. P. J. 415. Van Campen, John, 24. Vancouver, Charles, 712. Virginia, Gov. of, 57, 145, 175, 6'2. Wardens of Philadelphia, 93, 281, 349, 456, 571, 580, 584, 585, 588, 589, 606, 607. War, Office, 27, 302, 459, 460, 479, 495, 497, 525, 529. Wash- ington, Gen. George, 150, 151. Weitzel, John, 99, 109, 232, 343. Wilkinson, Gen. James, 610. William- son, Hon. Hugh, 397. ~ Wilson, James, 202, 399, 471. Wilson, Joseph, 152. Wilson, William,304, 654. Wynkoop, Henry, 211. Levers, Robert, letter on election in Northampton county, 341. Lewis, Thomas, appointed by Virginia commissioner on boundary, 146. Libling, Andrew, prisoner in jail, and others, revolt, 327–329. Liquors, regulations respecting sale of, 439. Livingston, Robert R., Secretary of Foreign Affairs, letters to and from, 9, 13, 21. Livingston, Gov. Wm., of N.J., letters to and from, 103, 366,458, 730. Loan Office, respecting, 57, 169, (1783,) 170, 174, 190, 223, 447, 453, 514, 532. Counterfeit certifiicates in cir- culation, 447. Letter of trustees of, 481. On scarcity of bills, 481, 545. Trustees apply for bills, 532. Longschamp, C. J. depositions re. specting his escape, 271-274. Mons. Marbois respecting, 277. He- taken, 277. Proceedings, 350, 351, 358. Anonymous letter to Mons. Marbois respecting, 409. He de- mands him, 706. Asks leave of absence to select a plantation, 742. Lottery, managers of the State, sale of

Page 780
780 INDEX. tickets, &c., 362, 372, 400, 468, 475, 513. Luce, Benj., warned to depart from Wyoming, 679. Lukens, John, S. G., on survey of do- nation lands, 451, 459. Appointment- by,458. Returns of surveys, 506. Let- ter of James Dickenson on survey of donation lands—conference with In- dians, 740. Letters and instructions to, 53, 56, 65, 95, 756. Appointed commissioner on Virginia boundary, 223. Luzerne, Chev. de la, dispatches re- specting peace between Great Bri- tain and the United States, 12. Waledictory on leaving, 279. Answer of Council to, 282. Mons. Marbois on, 283. Lyon, Wm., return of sheriffs on Cum- berland county, 285. McClure, Serjts., and H. Lee to take possession of Fort McIntosh, 109. McDowell, Surgeon, sick soldiers, 343. McIntosh, Fort, instructions to Ser- jeants Lee and McClure to take pos- session of, 109. Situation of, 391. Facts respecting, 406, 448, 466. To be vacated, 704. McKean, C. J. Thomas, answers to Council on justices of peace, 19–21. Case of Dr. Wm. Moland, 176. Com- mission expires—is re-elected C. J., 285. Respecting Henry Carberry, 290, 291. Asks for a pardon for A. Bare, 396. Letter to, on disturbances in Northumberland Co., 448, 460. Opinion on claim of Messrs. Penn to interest, 739. McKee, Capt., 86. Maclay, William, letters to and from, 46. Commissioner to treat with In- dians, 265. To examine roads and rivers, 129, 130. Indian boundary, 418, 444. Appointed commissioner, 334. To deliver goods to Indian chiefs, 510. And to explain certain expressions, 510. McLean, Alexander, appointment of Lt. Beal—in favor of conduct of Virginians in Westmoreland county, McLean, Moses, a commissioner to examine rivers, 330. McLean, Brig. Genl., on Indian affairs, 70, 71, 88. Invites to dinner, 70. McLean, Col., 555. McMillan, Rev. John, (1783,) 169. Madison, Rev. James, appointed by Virginia as comunissioner on boun- dary, 146. On trade of United States, 738. Mamachta.gwin, Indian prisoner for murder—opinion of Judge Bryan as to his trial, 473. Marbois, Mons., respecting plague sup- posed to exist at Marseilles, and regulations, 1356. Letter from, 362. Appeal respecting duties on a box arriving for him, 367. Collector tenders the box—he declines, 368. Relinquished by Council—question reserved, 368. On resolution of Con- gress—settlement of accounts, 369. Anonymous letter to, respecting Longschamp, 409. Going to New York with Congress, 432. A French criminal, 440. L. Collinet released at his request, 447. Appoints his brother Vice Consul, 471. Demands Longschamp, 706. Respecting Eng- lish vessel assuming French colours, 175, (1783.) respecting Longschamp, 277, 350. On Chev. Luzerne's de- parture, 283. Correcting a former letter, 311. At Fort Stanwix, 346. Thanks to Council in case of Long- schamp, 351. Complains of interest not paid, 355. Marbois, St. Pierre Francois Barbe de, Vice Consul at Philadelphia, 470, 478. Marcus Hook, vessel launched, attached under writ of Admiralty—escapes to Wilmington—letter of Judge Hop- kinson respecting, 355. Piers at, 407, 471, 713. Maryland, line of soldiers, 55. Passes an act on restrictions of British on American commerce, 155. Corres- pondence respecting Henry Carberry, 290–293. Letter to Gov., 320. From, 324, 744. Chinese recommended to Gov. of, 527, 528. Inland Naviga- tion commissioners, 538, 540. Act respecting claims, 753. Mason and Dixon's line, 224. Massachussetts, letter to Gov., demand of fugitives, 354. Insult to, by Capt. Stanhope, 499. Acts of, complained of by British, 745-747. Matlack, Timothy, memorial, 198–202. Letters of attorneys for State, 202, 364, 367. Respecting his case, 9, 363, 365. Report on, 365. Mead, David, on Wyoming affairs, 207, 222, 404, 482, 663, 707. Mease, John, elected auctioneer for Philada., 206, 209. Memorials, of Maj. M. Ryan,91,308. Of Ephraim Douglass, 118. Against
Page 781
INDEX. 781 * - - Theatres in Philadelphia, 141–143. Of T. Matlack, 198, 226, 363, 365. Of merchants of Philadelphia, 208, 411. Fayette Co., 280. John Frank- lin to Assembly of Connecticut, 681. Of merchants on Barbary powers, 411, 418, 705. Merchants of Philadelphia, conference of Assembly with, on internal com- merce, 128. Letter to, in answer to memorial, 208, 210. Letter from, to Council, regulations, &c., 212. Ad- vice asked by Pres. Dickinson, 219. , “ Their answer, 221. Letter to, on piers in Delaware River, 407. Memorial respecting Barbary powers, 411,418, 705. Complaints of British against, 745. Miami Indians, 85. On trade, 744. Mifflin, Thomas, announces resignation of Washington, 183. Military affairs, 14, 15, 22, 23, 39, 53, 190, 284, 436, 449, 450. Militia companies in Berks Co., and officers, 190. Milligan, James, nominates John Story as commissioner to settle accounts, 426,427. Commissioner on Susque- hanna River, 755. Moland, Dr. William, case of, 176. Molyneaux, , killed, 73. Montgomery County, no prison there, 408. Dispute between magistrates and commissioners respecting fees, 743. Montgomery, Hon. John, letter respect- ing Court decided on by Congress, 216. Representation in Congress, 220. Montgomery, Joseph, letter on Wyo- ming, 31. A commissioner, 330, 444. Elected commissioner to examine rivers, 312. Asks for a transit instru- ment, 416. Montgomery, William, appointed to examine rivers, 130. Resigns, 312. Appointed commissioner, 335. Elect- ed member of Congress, 354. To Council, 765, 766. . Moore, Maj. Jas., recruiting instruc- tions, 127. Commands Penna. Line, 131. Instructions, 132. On Wyo- ming affairs, 183, 187, 197, 209, 222, 232, 286. Moore, Wm., letter to, respecting cor- poration papers, 93. Morales, Francis, case of a sailor, 476, 499. Morgan, George, respecting J. and T. Killbuck, Indian hostages—asks for a pass for them to Pittsburg, 526. Morris, Cadwalader, elected member of Congress, 354. Resigns, 354. Morris, Robert, letters to, on refusing to pay troops, 312. Answer to, 313. Letter from War Office, 314. Answer, 315. Letters to and from, 53. Copies of accounts sent to Council by Comp- troller Gen., 481. Moylan, Col., regiment, 62. Murray, Lt. Francis, difficulties in rais- ing troops, 679. Muskinghum River and Ohio, proposed settlement at, (1783,) 168. Nagle, Serjeant of 3rd Pennsylvania regiment, orders to arrest, 63, 67, 69, 72. - Naval officers, payments to, 114. Navigation, inland, report, 538, 541. New Jersey, letters to and from Gov., 103, 366,458, 730; commissioners to inquire what islands in Delaware river, above Falls, are in each state, 130, 366, 458; resolution of Penna., on jurisdiction of islands, 611, 710; respecting Capt. White, 730. New York, prisoners at, in want, 68; demand for fugitives, 101, 131; boundary with, 412,413, 422; letters to and from Gov., 413, 422, 435, 513; act respecting boundary, 422, 435 ; commissioners, 422, 450, 454, 711; acts complained of by British mer- chants, 747. Nicholson, John, Compt. Gen., 6, 16, 28, 29, 46, 48, 50, 52, 53, 93, 94, 96, 529, 750; on claims on traitors' estates, 96; on James Searle's claim, 97; asks for a guard, 750. Northampton Co., collection of taxes in, 92; letter of council to Lieut. Craig, respecting Wyoming, 296, 303, 305; election, writ for, 339; letter Robert Levers respecting, 311; letter to prothonotaries respecting Wyoming, 749. North Carolina, letter to Governor, demand for fugitive, 353. Northumberland Co., letter of Council to magistracy and sheriff, &c., of, respecting Wyoming, 295, 303, 304; sheriff to arrest insurgents, 344; magistrates to aid, 344, 347, 460; field officers elected, 404; militia officers, 444; disturbances in, 448; justices of, to Alex. Patterson, &c., to keep peace, 628; to John Franklin, &c., demanding arms, &c., 629; answer of John Franklin, 629; letter to prothonotaries respecting Wyo- ming, 749.

Page 782
782 INDEX. O. Oath of Edward Fox, 103. Officers, rank of, 49; pay of, 113, 114, 179; commutation by Congress, 179; of troops in Philada. Co., 218, 219, 225; in Fayette Co., 275; Westmore- land, Co., 275, 276; in Washington Co., 287–289; required by war office for defence of western posts, 296, 302; of Berks Co. militia, 191, 331 ; to be appointed, 332; returns of, &c., 338; field, elected for Northumberland Co., 404, 444; recommend William Irvine, 425; of Washington Co.; 436; Philada. Co., 443; militia elected under law, 453; of Penna. Line, wil- ling to continue in service of United States, 466; privates and officers of state in federal regiments, 511; to command regiment of federal militia required from this state, 525; of Penna. Line, 593; of militia in Cum- berland Co., (1784,) 599–600; of Penna. line, (1781) 721, 728. Officers, Naval, return of payments to, 114. - Ohio river, a party proposes to form a settlement on, at mouth of Musking- um—unusually low, (1783), 168. Okely, John, appointed commissioner to Wyoming, 330; applies to be commissioner on jurisdiction of islands in the Delaware, 696. Oneida Indians, 88. Opinion of Chief Justice M'Kean on Penns' claim to interest, 739; of Wm. Bradford on fees in Montgomery Co., 743. Otsego, Gen. Clinton arrives from at Fort Sullivan, 719. Oswego, Gen. Ross commands at, 89. Ottawa Indians, 86. f P. Paca, John, respecting Henry Car. berry, 293. Paca, Gov. Wm., of Maryland, letters to and from, 293, 320, 324. Page, John, appointed by Va. commis- sioner on boundary, 146. Parker, Wm., letter respecting prisoners taken by Indians, (1783) 167. Patterson, Alex., letters on Wyoming, 31, 32, 207, 208,574; conference with, 207; to judges of supreme court, 617; to council, 619; commissioners, 625, 626, 627; Justices of Northumber- land bound to keep peace, &c., 628. Pay of officers and soldiers of American army, 113. Peace between Great Britain and United States, preliminaries signed, 10, 11; letter of Sir Guy Carlton, 13; from Rear Admiral Digby on, 21 ; letter Ezekiel Robbins respecting prisoners, 26; respecting goods imported from Great Britain since, 28; proclamation of Congress for Thanksgiving, 134; treaty ratified, 193, 549; rejoicings for, 149, 428; negociations, 185. Peale, C. W., and other citizens—invi- tation to attend delivery of an eulo- gium on the brave men who fell in the revolution, by Mr. Breckenridge, (1779) 162. Peale, Charles W., tenders to council a portrait of Pres. Wharton, painted by him, (1780) 163.) See Vol. VIII., p. 319. Pearson, Jamcs, repairs on state house, Philada., 373, 420, 426,442,535, 547; trees for state house yard, 420. Piers at Marcus Hook, 407, 471, 713. Pemberton, Israel, &c., remonstrance (1777) against treatment of them by order of Council, 158. (See Wol. WL, page 509.) Penn, John, jr., and John Penn, state- ment of their claim to the province, and opinion of the judges on it, 485; opinion of do. as to interest, 739. Pennsylvania, boundary between Wa, 8, 56, 72, 81, 95, 96, 125, 145, 171, (1783) 175, 181, 223, 231, 233, 236, 269,280, 336, 372, 373, 413, 414, 416, 428,438, 439, 489, 506, 573, 602,611, 705; confirmation of line run by Nevill and McClean, 8; Wyomin affairs, 147,148,711; [See Wyoming new state threatened on frontiers— Rev. James Finley sent to counteract it—correspondence, 40, 41; instrue- tions to, 163; Pennsylvania line of soldiers, 55; letters of Gov. Harrison, of Virginia, on boundary, 56, 65,72, 77, 78, 95, 96, 145, 175, (1783); resolutions of Congress on purchase of lands from Indians, 105, 119, 124, 126; resolutions of Assembly respect- ing purchase of lands from Indians, 111; lands opposite Fort Pitt, 115; report to Congress on Indian affairs, purchase of lands, &c., 119–125, 126; affair of Col. G. Cox, and boun- dary of, 81, 86, 96,125; proceedings of Assembly and merchants on internal commerce—by roads and rivers, 129, 130, 312; to inquire what islands above Falls belong to this state and New Jersey, 130; Captain Chrystie reaches Easton with a detachment, 135; letters from Gov. Trumbull, 147, 148; resolutions of Assembly—in-
Page 783
INDEX. 783 tentions towards Connecticut settlers, 196: commissioners appointed by, on Virginia boundary, 223; instruc- tions to commissioners on, 230; apportionment of $636,000, 238; exhausted treasury, 241; alphabetical list of persons attainted of high treason under the laws of, 250–260; commissioners to treat with Indians appointed—letter, 265; affairs in Fayette Co., 280; opening of land office, 282; objections to the law for, 283; Chief Justice McKean re- elected, 285; officers required for defence of western posts, 303; Pine Creek means Tiadaughton of, 1768, 357; vote of, on settlement of accounts, 369, 370; report of commis- sioners on boundary,373,374; Penna. troops in service of U.S.,393, 394, 403, 431,443; claims of state on United States, 397, 398, 422; purchase of land from Ind’ns, 412; boundary with New York, 412, 413, 422, 435, 450, 454,711; commissioners, 422; James Milligan and J. Story, commissioners to settle accounts with Uuited States, 426; western boundary described, commisioners, 452; Penn, John, and John, Jun., their claim to the pro- vince, and judge's opinion on it, 485– 488; quota of state, 517, 529, 530, 531; land claims under Va. titles, 611; surveys of lands received from Wa., 705; inquiries from land office whether islands in the rivers belong to the proprietaries or the State, 739; opinion judges of supreme court; on claim of Messrs. Penn to interest, 739; acts complained of by British merchants, 747; western boundary, 760. Pennsylvania line, commanded by Maj. J. Moore, 131; instructions, 132; resolution of Assembly respecting officers, 179; certificates of final set- tlement distributed to, by Bowen and Beatty, 437; letter of officers to Council—pay and land, 593; arrange- ment of officers in, (1781) 721-729; plan and instructions for recruiting, (1781) 728–730. Pentecost, Dorsey, on Indian murders, (1783) 167, 181; deposition, 462; on boundary, 413 ; attack on excise officers in Washington Co., 757. Pest houses on State Island, repairs of, 52. Petitions, Robert Turner, 39; of John Reynolds, jailor, at Philada., 119; from York, against Armand's legion, 133; of Dan. Drais, 150; Aaron Doane, 348, 716, 717; P. S. Dupon- ceau, 352; of captors of Joseph Doane, 565; of Zebulon Butler, &c., 559, 580, 613, 716; of prisoners at Easton, 690; inhabitants of Wyoming, 699; of D. Duncan and J. Finley, for Fort McIntosh, 704; of Philadelphia road, near Master's estate, (1773,) 718. Pettit, Charles, memorial of merchants, 208, 211; elected delegate to Con- gress, 437, 534; claims of Turnbull, M. and Co., for land, 497. Philadelphia, flag on Market St. hill, 39; taxes in, 51; congress ready to deliver up new prison at, 53; street commissioners, letters to and from, 55; troops expected from S. C., sick, 55; mutiny of troops, 63; combina- tion formed in, 65; proposals to appropriate site of old jail for ex- change—objections by city commis- sioners, 104; jailor at, petitions post- ponement of execution of sentence on account of weather, 119; confer- ence with merchants on internal commerce, 128; removal of seat of government of U. S.—proceedings in Congress respecting, 136; memo- rial against theatres in, 141; removal of chevaux de frizes from river, 93, 144–146, 349, 350, 565; resolution of Assembly—preparations for rejoicing for peace, 149, 428; congratulatory letter or address to Gen. Washington, on his safety and return, 150; his answer, 151; government mansion, 166; condition of hospital on State Island, 179; auctioneers elected by Assembly for, 206; memorial of mer- chants, 206; four men burned by fire works, 218; returns of troop of light horse, 218; of officers of first Bat- talion, 219; advice asked of merch’ts respecting commercial interests, 219; their answer, 221; tax on billiard tables, 222, 224; purchasers of city lots, 225; returns of fourth battalion, 235; commissioners for division and sale of barrack lots, 239, 241, 261, 268, 276, 737 ; call on persons col- lecting moneys, 260; proposals for “labelling” and numbering houses in, 269; directories first published in, 271 ; chevalier de la Luzerne leaves .278, 282, 283; powder magazines full, 281; number of persons confined in jail for felony, 286, 296–302; account of public arms, &c., required, 286; commissioners inquire about the iron in old jail, &c.—law for sale, &c., 307; revolt in the jail, 327, 329; repairs on executive mansion, 333; report on repairs of state house, 335, 348, 372, 420, 426, 442, 493, 535, 542,

Page 784
784 INDEX. 547, 563; grand jury present the want of room in magazine for powder, 347; Charles Hellstedt, Swedish consul, appointed, 362; disposal of old prison work house, 407; allowance to priso- ners, 407; trees planted in state house yard, 420; French consul general leaves for N. Y., with Con- gress, 432; militia officers, 442; J. H. C. Heineken, consul at, from United Netherlands, 446; piers contract'd for, 457, 713; Chinese, &c., land, sick and in want, 527; state house clock and G. Owen, (1784) 563; wardens want mo- ney to proceed with improvements in river, (1784) 571; removal of buoys by ill disposed persons, 580; beacon placed "on Cross Ledge, 588, (1784); chevaux de frize, 589; Aaron Doane in jail at, 598; memorial of merch’ts and . traders respecting Barbary powers, 705; Matthew Irwin elected recorder of deeds, 707; petition for a road near Master's lands, 718; invitation of Jewish congregation to supreme executive council to attend consecra- tion of synagogue in Cherry street, (1782) 731; Sieur de la Forest, vice consul of France, 735; comptroller asks for a guard at state house, 750; act to ascertain number of taxables in Philada., 750; Major Fullerton asks for powder for 3d battalion, 759; city lots which have reverted to the state, 762. Phile, Fred., naval officer, 240. Phipps, Paul, letter from Pres. Dick- inson to, on his polite attentions, 360; Pierce, John, certificates, 536, 538. Pine creek, alias Tiadaughton, 357. Pipe, Col. (Indian chief), 83, 84. Pitt, Fort, 53, 83, 95, 115, 167, (1783,) 337, 345; instructions relative to lands opposite to, 115; timber on— agreement Gen. Irvine and Boggs, 140. 141, 699; Col. Bayard commands at, (1783) 167; ruins of garrison at, 421, 462, 464; depositions respecting —bill of sale, 463; ejectment against Capt. Lucket, 466; to be given up to certain persons, 477, 498; sale at, 483; Turnbull, Marmie & Co., claim the land, 497. Pittsburg, election at, 211; state of, for want of acting civil magistrates, 289; printing office proposed, 421; Gen Gage ord's works to be demolish- ed, 429; ruins, 462; ejectment aga'st Captain Lucket, 466; to be taken possession of for the state, as soon as relinquished by the U. S., 498; road to, 533. Pleasants, Sam'ſ, &c., remonstrance 1777) on treatment, 158. See Vol. I. p. 509.) Porter, Col., letter respecting his rank, 49. Porter, Andrew, commissioner on W. boundary, 444, 455, 760. Asks ad- vice respecting wagons, &c., 372. Porter, Cap. Stephen, appointed com- missary to commissioners on boun- dary with Virginia, 438. Asks pay to be raised, 737. Potomac, falls as seat of government of United States, 138. Potter, Gen. James, arms for Wyoming, 47. Letter to Pres. Reed, (1779. See Wol. VII.,) militia, Indians, &e., 159. Powder magazine, Philada., presented by Grand Jury as not capable of containing all the powder, 347. Prison, (new,) at Philada., 52. Proclamation of Congress for thanks- giving for peace, 134 Of Governor of Connecticut, on Wyoming lands, 146. Proctor, Thomas, Sheriff, instructions to, respecting H. Carberry, 323. Re- volt in jail, 327. Purchase of land, 420. Prothonotary of Washington Co., letter from Gov. of Virginia, 78. Prothonotaries, circulars to, 268, 439, 749. Province Island Hospital, keeper ap- pointed, 75. Purchasers of lots, 225. Provisions, 105, 109, 118. Provost, Rev. Samuel, Bishop, 434. consecrated R. Read, James, appointed commissioner to Wyoming, 330. Reading, commissioners appointed to examine roads, &c., between Susque- hanna, and improving communica- tions between Schuylkill and Sus- quehanna rivers, 129. Case of Big Spring tracts, 712. Recruiting, instructions to Maj. Moore, 127. Suspended, 529. Redick, David, difficulty in surveys in Washington Co., 416. Reed, Joseph, letters to, from Council (1777,) respecting office of Chief Jus- tice, 157. Letters to and from, (1779,) 157, 159, 160. Elected member Con- gress, 254. Rejoicings for peace, resolutions of Assembly, 149. Remonstrance, Jas. Pemberton, John Hunt and Saml. Pleasants (1777,)
Page 785
INDEX. 785 Revenue system, of U. S., report to Congress on 732. Robins, Ezekiel, letter on orders to discharge prisoners, 26, 213. Robinson, Cap't Thos., on military affairs, 14, 99. Indian murders, 15. On Wyoming affairs, 47, 48. In- structions to, 99. Roots, George, deposition respecting ruins of Fort Pitt, 463. Ross, Major, commands at Oswego, 89 Rush, Jacob, Judge of Sup, Court, res- pecting H. Carberry, 291. Ryan, Major, Michael, memorial, ser- vices of, 92. Ryan, Michael, memorial respecting certificates received for pay—for payment of which he is in the hands of the Sheriff, his services, &c., 308. S. against treatment by order of Coun- cil, 158. (See Vol. VI., p. 509.) Reports to Assembly on boundary line between Vig'a and Penn'a, 8, 72, 95. In case T. Matlack, 9. Eph- raim Douglass to Sec'y of war, 83. To Congress on Indian affairs, 119 —125. On internal Commerce, 128. To Congress on full representation, 139. On interest on debt, 242–250. T. Matlack, 365, On national debt, 514-520. On State House, 335, 375. Council censors, 383. Of Comm'rs on boundary, 373, 374, 506. On arrears of imposts, 378. Of Comm'rs on boundary between Penn'a and Virg'a, 506. To Con- gress on revenue system, U. S., 732 –735. To Assembly, (1784,.) On Wyoming, 541. Resolutions of Assembly, 8, 111, 129, 130, 149, 166, 177, 178, 179, 184, 195, 196,203,204, 209,233, 315, 316, 333,334, 335, 336, 365, 367, 369, 412, 420, 488, 531, 559,695, 710, 711, 749, 750, 756. of Assembly of Connecticut, 116, 117, 683. of Congress, 27, 36, 90, 105, 136, 139, 194, 209, 241,507,508, 511, 520, 528, 536, 543, 544, 549, 550, 561, 562, (1784,) 566–572, 590, 716. of Council of Censors, 149, 153, 302, 326, 327, 332, of House of Delegates, of Maryland Comm'rs on trade, 744. of House of Delegates of Virg'a on boundary, (1783,) 171. Comm'rs on trade, 738. Returns of deserters from American regiment, 390. Of Penns'a line, 390. of Military, 22, 390, 393, 436. of officers of Troops in Philad'a Co., 218, 219, 235. Of military stores at Fort Island and Billingsport, (1784,) 284. Reynolds, John, jailer, petition to postpone execution of sentence on account of weather, 119. Longs- champ re-taken, 277. Revolt in jail, 327. Rice, Fort, 165. , Rittenhouse, David, appointed Com- missioner to examine roads and rivers for internal commerce, 129, 130. Comm'r (1783,) of boundary with Virg'a, 171, 223. Treasurer, 241, 456, 534. Commissioner, 334, 444, 454, 455, 736. Instruments, 454. Asks for a quadrant, it would be useful, 458. Comm'ron Susque- hanna river, 755. St. Clair, Genl. Anthony, on rank of Col. Porter, 49. Sale of Fort Pitt, 485. Elected auctioneer for Phil'a, 205, 209, 261. Elected to Congress, 534. Sandusky Indians, 84. Saphorin, M. de St., on consecration of American Bishops by Denmark, 434. Schools, public, for education of youth urged to attention of Judges of Su- preme Court, by Pres. Dickinson, 523. Schreiber, John, in charge of barracks, &c., at Lancaster, damage to them, 309, 334. Schuyler, Philip, Comm'ron New York line, 450. Schuykill and Susquehanna river, com- muuication between, 129, 130. Scott, Thomas, 65, 78, 80. Scott, Thomas, election in Fallowfield Township, 364. Scott, Lt. Wm., arms at York, 591. Searle, James, agent to Europe claim for Compensation, 97. Seat of Government, proceedings in Congress respecting removal from Philadelphia, 136, 139. Secretary of foreign affairs, letters to and from, 9, 13, 21, 735. Seely, John, to H. Antes, 650, 677, 678. Sellers, Nathan, appointed Comm'r to examine roads and rivers with a view to internal commerce, 129, 130, 334. Shaw, William, Wyoming affairs, 764. Answer of Pres. Dickinson, 761. Shawnese Indians. 83, 86, 161.
Page 786
786 INDEX, Sheriff's letters to, 63. Sheriff’s list of, in Cumberland Co., (1777 to 1783,) 285. Shoemaker, B., letters respecting cor- poration papers, 93. Shoemaker, Henry, convicted of riot removed as a Justice, 695. Six nations of Indians, negociations with, explanation of Pine Creek, 357, Short Creek, prisoners taken by the Indians on, (1783,) 167. Shrawder, Capt. Philip, respecting Wyoming, 23, 24, 99, 104, 131. Ap- pointed Capt'n, 131. Smallwood, Gov. of Md., internal navi- gation, 542, 543. Delegates on trade, 744. Claims, 753. Smith, Thomas, Loan officer, letters to and from, 57, 169, (1783,) 170, 174, 190, 447, 461. Smith, William, as justice of the peace, resignation required, 419. Smith, W. Hooker, to Corporal Mont- gomery, on Wyoming affairs, 760. Smyser, Jacob, 77. Snow, deep at Fort Dickinson, 197. Soldiers, disorderly at Lancaster, 59. At Philadelphia, attack on Congress, submission, 61. South Carolina, letter from Gov'r ask- ing list of Traitors, 99. Operations of Lord Cornwallis, (1780,) 173. Spanish flag, a drawing sent to the Gov't, 743. Sproat, David, on prisoners at New York, 68. Sproat, Rev'd James, chaplain asks for clothing, 720. Spyker, Benj., Jr., deposition respecting H. Carberry, &c., 577. Stanhope, Capt. Henry, British sends insulting letters to Gov. of Mass., 499–506. Stanwix, Fort, arrival of Comm’rs at, 346. Marquis Fayette addreses In- dians at, 346. Mons. Marbois at, 346. State House, (Philad'a,) reports on re- pairs, 335, 348, 372, 420, 426,442, 493, 535, 542, 547. Trees planted in, 420. Guard asked for by, comp- troller, 750. Repairs of clock, 563. State (or Province) Island, repairs of Pest-houses at, 53. Steuben, Baron, to Pres. Dickinson in behalf of P. S. Duponceau as notary, &c., 352. Stokely, Capt'n, 22, 262. Story, John, appointed with James Milligan Comm'r, to settle accounts between U. S. and Penn'a, 427, 450, 451, 742. Sullivan, Fort, when and where erected, Supreme Court, Judges, requested by President, to recommend impor- tance of moral training of youth, public schools, &c., 523. SUP. Executive Council, Letters. Agents of Confiscated Estates, 154. Antes, Henry, Sheriff, Northumber- land, 344, 482,694. Armstrong, Brig. Gen. John, 686, 688. Armstrong, Lt. Col. John, 307, 315, 317, 319, 361. Armstrong, Capt. Willian, 12. Assembly, 195, 198, 223, 407, 427, 428, 692, 694. Atlee, Sam'l J., 333, 346, 360, Atlee, William, 394. Barclay, Thomas, 267. Bartholomew, Edward, 442. Baynton, John, 511. Blaine, Ephraim, 609. Boggs, Ma- thew, 699. Boudinot, Elias, 74. Bowen, F. B. and E. Beatty, 437, 596, 604, 605. Boyd, Hon. John, 307, 330, 339. Boyd and Armstrong, 591, 627,630, 662, 664–669,670, 676. Bradford, William, jr., Att. Gen., 494, 655, 712, 743. Broadhead, Col., Dan'l, 160. Brussine and Garrison, 145. Bryan, Hon. Geo. 16, 73. Bryan, Sam’l, (Sec'y) 327. Butler, Col. Richard, 69,294. Butler, Wil- liam, 421. Caldwell, Sam'1, 185. Carleton, Gen. Guy, 101, 131. Christie, James, (Capt.) 135, 209. Circulars, 284. Clinton, Gov. Geo., of N. Y., 205, 412, 422, 435, 450, 513. Commrs. for sale of barracks, 239, 241, 261, 268, 276. Commrs. of boundaries, 233, 234, 416, 438, 454, 489, 506. Commrs. of Cumberland Co., 79. Commrs. on defence of Delaware, 26. Commrs. for treating with Indians, 265, 325, 332, 333,346, 357,392,395, 410,489. Commrs. on lands, 541, 545. Commrs. of Philadelphia, 104, 307. Commrs. of roads, 533. Commrs. of Taxes, 238. Commrs. of Taxes of Bucks Co., 75. Commrs. of Taxes, Lancaster County, 82. Commrs. of Taxes, of Northampton Co., 92. Commrs. of Taxes of Philadelphia, 51, 222, 224. Commrs. of Washing- ton County, 136, 584. Commrs. of Westmoreland Co., 98, 593. Con- gress, 60, 62, 74, 98, 135, 193, 206, 231, 233,263, 359, 369,397, 410,417, 440, 442, 457, 461,473, 489, 493, 494, 499, 507, 532, 535, 537, 539, 543, 544, 736, 745, 754. Council of Censors, 153, 302, 306, 333,336, 596, 604, 655. County Lieuts. 286, 345, 410, 419. Craig, Thomas, 296, 303, 305. Cre- vecour, Mons’r, 195. Cummins, Lt. John, 22. Delany, Sharp, 97, 441, 715. Dela-
Page 787
INDEX. 787 f ware, Gov. of, 540. Delegates in Congress, 7, 25, 27, 28, 38, 45, 48, 52, 69, 72, 101, 151,154, 155, 156, 183, 184, 204, 210, 213,358, 369,397, 398, 449,456, 477, 511, 549, 556, 563, 575, 576, 581, 592, 601, 705, 715, 759. Dickinson, John, 77. Dougherty, Barnard, 114, 119. Douglass, Eph- raim, 262, 553, 564, 581, 588, 696. Donaldson, Arthur, 350. Donnaldson, John, 565, 583. Duval, Hon. Gabriel, 291. - Ellicott Andrew, 452 Espy David, 114, 119. Ewing, Rev. Dr. John, 428, 443. Finley, Rev. James, 40, 41, 163. Fitzsimons, Thomas, 28, 48. Flee- son, Plunket, 523. Francis, Tench, 240, 261. Franklin. John, 672. Fullerton, Richard, 758. Galbraith, Robert, 466. Gardner, Hon. Joseph, 405, 526. Gov. of Conn., 147,148,213. Gov. of Dela- ware, 540. Gov. of Md., 292, 320, 324,526, 527, 540, 542, 543, 744,753. Gov. of Masstts., 354, 500, 503, 504. Gov. of N. Jersey, 103, 366. Gov. of New York,205, 412,422, 435, 450, 513. Gov. of North Carolina, 353. Gov. of South Carolina, 79. Gov. of Virginia, 56, 145, 175. Grand Inquest, 347. Guerard, Gov. Benj'n, of South Carolina, 79. Harmar, Lt. Col., Josiah, 309, 311, 316, 322, 337, 345, 398, 394, 406, 430, 448,455, 465, 468, 479, 483,490, 508. Harrison, Gov. Benjamin, 56, 145, 175, 608. Hays, Christepher, 264, 279. Hellstedt, Charles, Min. U. Nethd., 350, 362, 409. Henry, Wm., and G. Gardner, 405. Hillegas, Michael, 239, 261. Hodgdon, Sam’l, 39, 59. Hollingsworth, Levi, 350, 533, 546, 548. Hopkinson, Francis, J. A., 58, 355, 707, 735. Howe, Maj. Gen., 66. Hubly, John, 278. Huff- nagle, Michael, 125, 140, 141, 147, 186, 211, 429, 462, 464, 467, 763. Humpton, Col., Richard, 59. Hun- ter, Samuel, 47. Hutchinson, Dr., James, 178. Irvine, Gen. William, 56, 67, 509. Irwin, John, 289. Jacks, James, 264. Jackson, Hon. David, 522. Jay, John, Sec'y of Foreign Affairs, 401, 407,409, 475. Johnston, Benjm, 611. Johnston, Col. Francis,282, 325, 326, 333, 453. Judges of Supreme Court, 448, 460, 523, Land Office, 536, 537, 739. Lee, Arthur, 295. Lee, Richard Henry, 173, Levers, Robert, 341. Living- ston, R. R., Sec'y, &c., 9. Living- ston, Gov. William, 103, 366, 458, 730. Loan Office, 57, 168, 169, 174, 190, 481, 515. Longschamp, John, 742. Lukens, John, S. G., 53, 65, 95, 451, 458, 506. Luzerne, Chev. de la, 278, 282. Lyon, Wm. 285. McClean, Alex’r, 293. McDowell, Surgeon, 343. McKean, Thomas, C. J., 19, 176,284, 290, 291, 730. Mac- lay, Wm., 46, 346, 418, 444, 510. Magistrates and Sheriff of Northum- berland County, 460. Managers of State Lottery, 362,372,400, 468, 474, 513. Marbois, Mo s., 175, 223, 277, 283, 311, 350, 351, 354, 356,362, 367, 368,409, 432, 440, 445, 471. Mead, David, 404, 483, 707. Merchants, committee of, 210, 212, 219, 221, 406. Mifflin, Thomas, 183. Milligan, J mes, 426. Milligan, Robert, 755. Minister of Holland, 415. Minister of U. Netherlands, 350, 362, 409, 415, 435. Montgomery, John, 216 220. Montgomery, Joseph, 444. Montgomery, Wm. 765, 767. Moore, Lt. Col., 286. Moore, Maj., Jas., &c., 183, 186, 197, 207, 222, 232. Mo- rales, Francis, 476. Morgan, George, 526. Morris, Robert, 53, 312. Muh- lenberg, Frederick, A., Pres. C. C., 153. Nicholson, John, 6, 16, 28, 46, 48, 50, 52, 53, 93, 94,96,97,481, 529,750. Northumberland, Mag. and Sheriffs, 295, 304. Officers of Penn. Line, 425, 592. Parker, William, 167. Patterson, Alexander, 208, 574, 617, 619, 623, 626, 627, 675. Peale, Cha. W., 162, (1779,) 163, (1780.) Pearson, James, 373, 420, 426,443. Pentecost, Dor- sey, 167, 181, 262, 413, 757. Pettit, Charles, 208, 497, Phile, Fredk., N. 0., 249. Phipps, Paul, 359. Peirce, John, 536. Porter, Andrew, 372, 762. Potter Gen. James, 47, 159, Proctor, Thomas, Sheriff, 286, 323, 420. Prothonotaries, 78, 268. Pro- thonotary of Washington Co., 78. Receiver, Gen., of Land Office, 547. Redick, David, 416. Reed, Joseph, 157, 159, 160, 163. Reynolds, John, 277. Rittenhouse, David, Treas'r, 241, 269, 439,454, 455, 456,458, 736. Robins, Ezekiel, 213. Robinson, Capt. Thomas, 14, 48. Ryan, Mic- hael, 308. St. Clair, Gen. Arthur, 49, 260, 483. Schreiber, John, 309, 334. Scott, Wm. 591. Scott, Thomas, 65, 78, 80, 364. Secretary of Foreign Affairs, 9, 401, 407,432, 446, 499, 538, 735,
Page 788
788 INDEX. 743, 759. Shaw, William, 764, 767. Sheriffs, 63, 67. Shrawder, Capt., Philip, 23, 104. Slough, Matthias, 237. Smyser, Jacob, 77. Smith, Wm., and W. Kelly,419. Smith, Tho- mas, Land Office, 57, 168, 169, 174, 192,447,461. Sproat, Rev., Ja's, 720. Sproat, David, 68. Stanhope, Henry, Capt., 503, 504. Steuben, Baron, 352. Story, John, 450, 451, 742. Street Commrs., Phila., 55. Sur- veyor Gen., 53, 65, 95, 451, 458, 506. Taylor, Timothy, 432. Trumbull, Gov. Jona. of Conn., 147, 148, 213. Trustees of Loan Office, 481, 532, 545. Trustees of Westmoreland Co., 91. Turnbull, Marmee & Co., 281. Van Berkel, P. J., Min. Holl., 476. Vancouver, Charles, 712. Wardens of Philada., 93, 281, 349, 456, 571, 581, 584, 585, 588, 589, 606, 607. War Office, 27, 302, 459, 460, 479, 495, 497, 525, 529. Washington, Gen. George, 150, 151. Weitzel. John, 99, 109, 222, 343. Wilkinson, Gen., James, 610. Williamson, Hon. Hugh, 397. Wilson, James, 399, 471, Wilson, William, 304. Wilson, Jo's, 153. Wynkoop, Henry, 211. Surveyor General, instructions to, res- pecting lands and lots, 53, 56, 65. Meeting at, on survey of lands rec'd from Virg'a. Susquehanna River, Comm'rs appoin- ted to examine, 129; and opening a Communication between, & Schuy. kill, 129,312. Proposal for building a Town on east bank of, 129. Comm'rs appointed, 130,334. Heavy freshet, 222. Tiadaughton, means Pine Creek, 357. Swedish Consul, Charles Hellsted ap- pointed, 32. T. Taxes, 51, 52, 75, 79, 82,222, 224. Tº: Timothy respecting Solomon ickers, 432, 433. Tiadaughton Creek, of treaty of 1768, explained by Indians as Pine Creek, 357. Temple, John, Consul Gen. from Great Britain, 544. Thanksgiving day for peace, pro- claimed by Congress, 134. Theatres in Philadelphia, memorial against, 141. Thompson, Gen’l, 483. Tidd, Martin, deposition respecting Wyoming, 196. Traitors, Confiscated estate, Controller Nicholson on, 96. List of 250. Treasury Board, letters to and from loan officer, to give bonds, 527. Trees, elm, presented by Col. George Morgan, for State house yard, thanks of Council for, 420. Trumbull, Gov. Jno., of Connecticut, proclamation on Wyoming, 146. Let- ters to and from, 147, 148. Trustees of Gen'l loan office, 431, 514, 545. Turnbull, Marmie & Co., on storing powder in magazine, 281. Claim for land on which Fort stands at Pittsburg, 497. Turner, Robert, raises flag on Market street hill, 39. U. United Netherlands, letter from Pres. Dickinson to minister of, respecting Longschamp, 351. Extract of let- ter from, 108. Letter from P. J. Van Berekel, respecting, 415. Pres. Dickinson to the minister of, 435. J. H. Christian Heineken, consul of, for Phil'a, 446. United States, and Great Britain, pre- liminaries of peace between, signed, 10. Seat of Government, proceed- ings in Congress on, 136 139. Re- turns of Penn'a troops in service of, 393, 403, 431,449. Claims of Penn'a on, 397, 398. John Jay elected Sec'y of foreign affairs, 401, 402. J. Milligan and J. Story, Comm’rs to settle accounts between, and Penns'a,426. Will barely relinquish Pittsburg, 49S. National debt, 514 –20, 260. Loan office, 520–522. Re- port to Congress on Revenue system of, 732. Comm'rs appointed by Virg'a on trade of, 738; d.o. by Maryland, 734, University of Pennsylvania, estates allotted to, 195. W. Van Borekel, P. J. respecting a publi- cation in a newspaper, 413. Wan Campen, John, Letter, of Cap. P. Shrawder, to, 24. Wancouver, Chas. patronage, for a book, 712. Wickers, Solomon, case of, on charge of robbery in Bucks Co. 432. Virginia—Boundary line between, and Penns'a 8, 56, 72, 77, 95, 96, 145, 146, 171, 175, 181, 223, 232, 233,236, 269, 280, 293,336,372, 373, 374,413, 414,428, 438,439, 489, 506, º
Page 789
INDEX. 789 573, 602, 611, 705. Letters of Gov. Harrison, 56, 65, 72, 77, 78, 95, 145, 175, (1783.) Case, of Col. Cox, 81, 96, 125, 172, (1783.) Commissioners appointed by, 146. Resolution of House of Delegates, 1783, 171. Com- missioners, of Pennsylvania, (1783.) 171, 223. Case of John Campbell, 172. Rejects finance plan, of Con- gress, 173, (1780.) Agreement at Baltimore, 223. Letter A. McClean, respecting Westmoreland, 293. Re- port, of Commissioners on Boundary, 373, 374. Difficulties on surveys, 414. Report of Commissioners, 506. Titles in Washington Co. 414, 417. Meeting at Surveyor General's re- specting surveys of Land, obtained from, 705. Resolution of House of Delegates, appointing Commissioners on Trade of U. S. 738. Wardens of Philadelphia, removal of Chevaux de frize from River, 93, 349, 350, 606, 607. On storing of powder, 281. Piers, 407. Contract for piers. 456. Removal of Buoys &c., 580. J. Donnaldson resigns, 583, 584. Joseph Bullock, elected, 583. Ex- penditures, 585. Beacon on Cross Lede, 589. War office, letters to and from, 27, 302, 314, 315,459, 461, 479, 494, 497, 529. Corps, under Col. Harmar, necessary to protect lands, 495. Washington, Co. new state threatened, Rev. J. Finley sent to, 40, 41, 163. Letter of Prothonotary, 78. Case of Col Cox, 81, 96. 125. Taxes, 136, 593. Laid out, 181, (1783.) D. Pen- tecost' on affairs, 262. Return of militia, officers in, 287. difficulties, from Virginia titles, 416. Return of public stores, in, 436. and officers of Militia in, 436. John Story, agent on accounts, 451. Dis- turbances in, 467,554, 585. Doane, gives trouble, in, 582, 584. Com- missioners of, 584, 587, 593. J. Story opens office for adjusting claims, 742. Attack on Excise office of, 757. Washington, Gen. George, address of Council, congratulatory on his safety, &c., 150. His reply, 151. Letter of Pres. Dickinson, to Delegates, sug- gesting an annual sum to meet Ex- penses arising out of his position, 152, 185, 575. Answer from Dele- gates, in Congress, 155. Suggests Vol. X. —34 uniformity of arms in the States, 154. Renounces his commission to Con- gress, 183, (1783.) Weed, Cap. Elijah, Instructions respect- ing fugitives to New York, 102. Weiser, Samuel, proposed as Interpre- ter, 266. Weitzel, John, Letter to, 99, 109, 232, 343. Western Lands, suggestions respecting Cession, of 152, Westmoreland, Co., new, State threat- ened, Revd. J. Finley sent to, 40, 41, 163. Hanna's Town. as County seat, 91. Commissioners interfered with, by Virginians, 98. Fayette, Co., formed from, 118, 181. Alarm- ing state, of Mamallen T. 147, 553. Rangers, Cap. Stokely, 262. Re- turns of Field officers, 275,276. State of affairs, 279. Letter Alex. Mc Clean, exculpatory of the Virginians, 294. John Story, agent on accounts, 450. Road to Pittsburg, 533. County Commissioners on attacks on Col- lectors in Springhill Township, 594. Franklin Co., formed, 603. J, Story, opens office, for adjusting claims, 742. James Hamilton, elected Register of wills, Recorder of Deeds, 750. White, Cap. Robert, a Traitor, letter from Gov. of New Jersey respecting, 730. White, William, consecrated Ameri- can Bishop, 434. “Whole Face,” and “Long Hair,” Indian Chiefs, conference with, 740. Wilkinson, James, Commissioner to examine Rivers, 129, 130,334. Re- signs, his commissions as B. Genl. 610. Williams, Amos, case, of, 713. Williamson, Dr. Hugh, letter to, in answer, a member of Congress, 397. Wilson, James, Atty. for State, in case of T. Matlack, 202. Thorough know- ledge of Wyoming affairs, 204. Agent on disputed lands, 399, Elected delegate to Congress, 437, 534. Wilson, Joseph, claim for arrest of Joseph Doane, 152. Wilson, William, Lieut. of Northumber- land Co., respecting Wyoming, 304. To J. A. 654. Wyandot Indians, 86. Wylie, Capt. of artillery artificers, 94. Wynkoop, Henry, letter to, on vacancy in magistracy, 211. Wyoming, act relative to suits at, 5. Return of Stores, 14. Letters of Cap. P. Shrawder, 23, 24, 104. Return of Stokely's company, 22. Letter of, Alex. Patterson, 30, 32, 35. Joseph
Page 790
790 INDEX. Montgomery, 31, 34. Jacob John- son, 34. List of persons at, who wish to support the laws, 37. Cap. Robinson at, 47. Ammunition sent to, 47. Provisions to be sent to, 99. Provisions for, 104. Returns of Cap. Robinson, & Shrawders, Companies of Pennsylvania Rangers at, 105, Provisions for, 104,109, 131. Reso- lutions, of Assembly. of Connecticut, 116, 117. Reports of Assembly, 224. Proposals for supplying troops with provisions at, 118. P. Shrawder ap- pointed Captain at, 131. Major Moore, commands, Pennsa. line, 131, 132. Cap. Chrystie, reaches Easton, with a detachment, 135. Proclamation of Gov. of Connecticut, respecting lands, 146. Letters to and from Gov. Trumbull, 147, 148. Decision against Connecticut unexpected, 148. In- structions to Cap. Shrawder, (1783,) 165. Letter, J. Moore, 183, 187, 286. Troops at Fort Dickinson, 189, 197. Resolution of Congress, for a ‘Court to determine right of soil, 194. Resolutions of Assembly, intentions of State towards, Connecticut settlers, 196. Deposition of Martin Tidd, 196. Deep Snow, 197. Condition of Settlers, 197. Papers asked for by , Council, 198. Pennsylvania, opposed to revision of decision, at Trenton, 204, 210, 216. Letter to Gov. Clin- ton, of N. Y. 205. Behaviour of Settlers, 207, 208. Letter, Pres. Dickinson, to Gov. T. 213. J. Montgomery, on the court, 216. Provisionss, 222, 232. Time of with- drawing troops from, 224. Letter of Congress on Court, 231. Letter of Council, to Magistracy and Sheriffs of Northumberland Co, respecting, 295 304. To Thomas Craig, Lieut of Northampton Co., on, 296, 303, Letters, of Council, to Lieut. Wilson, of Northumberland Co., 304. Coun- cil, to Boyd and Armstrong, 307. Wheat reaped on disputed lands, how disposed of 317, 337. Letter of Pres. to Col. Armstrong, measures respecting lands, &c., 319. Men shut up in the garrison at Fort Dickinson, 321. Commissioners ap- pointed, 330. Instructions to, 330, 339. Provisions, 343. Sheriff to arrest certain insurgents, 344. Troops to march from Bucks and Berks Cos. for, 345. Order to magistrates of Northumberland, 347. Letter to delegates on claims, 399. James Wilson appointed to manage, 399. David Mead, letter on state of affairs . 615–710. at, 404. Plundering, 399. To judges on disturbances, in Northumberland Co., 448, 460. Report of Commit- tee of Assembly, 460, 471. Sheriff Antes charged with not executing this duty, 481. Letters of D. Mead, 207, 222, 404, 482. Resolution of Congress, (1784.) on court, 550. Re- port to Assembly, (1784,) petition of Shepherd, &c., (1784,) 551, 552, 557. Proceedings of Assembly, (1784,) 557 –561. Proceedings in Congress, 563. Letter Alexr. Patterson to Council (1784,) proceedings, 574. Resolutions of Assembly, (1784,) 575. Petition of Zeb. Butler, &c., 559, 580. Letter to Boyd and Armstrong, commiss’rs, 591. Various documents respecting, Petition of Z. Butler, &c., to Congress, 613–617. Alexr. Pat- terson to Judges of Supreme Court, 617. Do. to Council, 619. John Franklin, &c., to officers of the garri- son to surrender, 621. Deposition of John Boyd, 621. Wm. Brink, 621, 623. Col. J. Armstrong, 625. Com- missioners to Alex. Patterson, 624. Answer, 624. Commiss’rs to Alexr. Patterson, 625. Answer, 626. Com- missioners to Alexr. Patterson, 626. Answer, 626. Thos. Hewett, &c., to Alexr. Patterson, 627. Answer, 627. Boyd and Armstrong to Pres. Dick- inson, 627. Justices of Northumber- land at, ready to execute the laws, 628. Justices of Northumberland to A. Patterson, &c., demanding bond to keep peace, 628. Justices of Northumberland to Jno. Franklin, &c., demanding arms, &c., 629. Answer of John Franklin, 629. Justices of Northumberland Co., 630. Boyd and Armstrong respecting, 630. Depositions respecting,631-638,639– 650, 651, 652. Persons who bore arms, 638. Jona. Seely to H. Antes, 650. List of affidavits taken at, 652. Letter J. Armstrong, 653, 654, 669. Wm. Wilson to J. Armstrong, 652. Deposition, 655, 656. Act of Assem- bly restoring certain lands, 657. De- positions, 659–662. Question to magistrates by commissioners as to safety, 662. Answer, 663. Deposi- tions, 665–668. Escape of prisoners from Easton jail, 663–666. Adver- tisement of commissioners at, 669. John Franklin to Pres. Dickinson, 672. Deposition, &c., of Cap. Shoe- maker, 674. Alexander Patterson to Col. Armstrong, 675. Commission’rs to Pres. Dickinson, 676. Claimants disposed to violence, 676. Letter
Page 791
INDEX. 791 J. Armstrong to J. Seely, 677, 678. Connecticut claimants warning to Benjn. Luce to depart, 679. Lieut. Francis Murray to Brig. Gen. Arm- strong, difficulty in raising troops, 672. Memorial of 'John Franklin to Assembly of Conn’t, 681. Resolu- tions of Assembly on do., 683. Brig. Gen. Armstrong to inhabitants of, 685. Letter to Pres. Dickinson, 686. Depositions, 688, 691, 693. Petition of prisoners at Easton, 690. Brig. Gen. Armstrong to Pres., recom- mending defensive measures, 694. Henry Shoemaker convicted of riot, and removed as a justice, 695. Pe- tition of inhabitants, 699-704. No motion in Congress by delegates from Connecticut, 706. Letter David Mead, depositions,707-710. Resolut’n of Congress, Z. Butler,716. Sec. Arm- strong to prothonotaries relating to, Cº. 749. Report to Assembly read and recommitted, 749. Joseph Hamilton to Col. John Franklin, 751. Ces- sion proposed by Connecticut, 759. W. Hooker Smith, &c., to Corporal Montgomery, 760. Wm. Shaw to Council, 764. Answer, 766. Wm. Montgomery to Council, 765. Ethan Allen, &c., 765, 766. Y. York, mildew and hail destroy grain, 77. Petition of inhabitants against Armand's legion, 133. Report of arms at, 591. 2. Ziegler, Capt., 322, 509. END OF WOLUME X
Page Scan 796
Blank page
Page Scan 797
Blank page
Page Scan 798
PLEASE RETURN TO ALDERMAN LIBRARY DUE ) tº 2-1 - “ DUE
Page Scan 799
AX 000 L.75 HP5

Page Scan 800
|- | _ | _ | _ | _ .

This page contains an image.
End of Index. Continue to next section or 
End of text. Return to .

