The Magazine of history with notes and queries., extra no.9-12 (v.3 1909-1910). | HathiTrust Digital Library

Use of this online version is subject to all U.S. copyright laws. Please do not save or redistribute this file.
For questions or comments, contact HathiTrust.org at 



Full Bibliographic Information
Title
The Magazine of history with notes and queries., extra no.9-12 (v.3 1909-1910).
Published 
New York :William Abbatt
Description 
v. :ill., maps ;25 cm.
Rights 

Permanent URL 

Table of Contents







Book Text
Front Cover
Page Scan 1
Blank page
This page contains an image.
Page Scan 2
v

f 1
This page contains an image.
Page Scan 3
Blank page
Page Scan 4
A/- I
End of Front Cover. Continue to next section or 
Title Page
Page Scan 5
THE MAGAZINE OF HISTORY WITH NOTES AND QUERIES Cxtra JJumber* 942 VOL. Ill WILLIAM ABBATT NEW YORK 1910
Page Scan 6
Blank page
End of Title Page. Continue to next section or 
Table of Contents
Page Scan 7
a THE MAGAZINE OF HISTORY WITH NOTES AND QUERIES (Extra iHumbertf 9=12 CONTENTS THE UNITED STATES-MACEDONIAN BATTLE Frontispiece THIRTY YEARS FROM HOME, OR A VOICE FROM THE MAIN- DECK Samuel Leech 319 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES (1775-83), Edited by Mr. Clarence M. Burton 215 THE PENOBSCOT EXPEDITION (1783). John Calef Edited by Mr. Nathan Goold 289 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE (1807-H) Shadrach Byfield 845 THE "SHENANDOAH," THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER Cornelius E. Hunt 383
Page Scan 8
Blank page
End of Table of Contents. Continue to next section or 
Index
Page Scan 9
INDEX Abigail, whaler 456, 457 Adelaide 414 A Ibany 303 et seq. Alina 398, 399 Armstrong, Captain James 6 Ascension Island 441, 447 Banks, Aaron 316 Barkley, Andrew 321 Barracouta ..." 486, 487 Battle of Lundy's Lane 377 Battle of the River Raisin 360 Battle of the Thames 368 Black Rock, attack on 374, 375, 379 Boxer 160, 161 Brant, Joseph 272 Brunswick 477 Buffalo, capture of 376 Bulloch, J. D 508 Burton, Clarence M 217 Byfield, Shadrach 347 et seq. Caffrac, Lieutenant 319 Calef, Dr. John 297 Card, John 84 Garden, Captain John S 55, 93 Catharine 474 Charter Oak 401 "Claret, Captain" 5 Congress 480 Dartmoor Massacre 155 Decatur, Captain Stephen 98, 110 D. Godfrey 402 Delaware Town 255, 257 Delphine De Peyster, Major A. S.36 et se Detroit, surrender of Donegal, H. M. S Douglass, Ephraim Drummond's Island , Dudley, Colonel William Earl Russell Edward Edward Cary Eighty-second Foot Elliott, Captain Matthew Ephraim Douglass and his Times Euphrates Favorite Finley, James Fitzroy, Lord William Flogging 29, 3 Fort Defiance Fort Erie Fort Meigs Fort Niagara Fort Stephenson Gaddis, John General Pike General Williams Gipsy Goold, Nathan Graham, Lieutenant John. Guerriere .,
Page Scan 10
INDEX Harrison, General W. H 359 Harvett 444 Hector 444 Uillman 480 Hope, Lieutenant David 36 Indians 354 et seq. luaac Howland 480 Isabel 475 James Murray 479 Jireh Swift 407 Kate Prince 404 Lizzie M. Stacey 405 Laurel 389, 394 Leech, Samuel 3, 5 Leggett, Ensign 355 Lincoln, General Benj amin 248, 252 Lisbon 33 Lovell, General Solomon 301, 324 McCully, James 221, 253, 276, 281 Macedonian 19 MacLean, General Allan 284, 288 MacLean, General Francis 300 et seq. Madeira, Island of 391, 392 Martha 2d 480 Medway 137 Melbourne 428, 433 Melville, Herman 5 Milo 465, 466 Monque 397 Mowat, Captain Henry 303 et seq. Mowat's account 334 Narrative of a Light Company Soldier's service 345 Nassau 480 Nautilus 305 et seq. Nicholson, Lieutenant John B. 95, 99, 127, 153, 156 Nile 480 Nimrod 427, 474 North 305 et seq. Ochotsk Sea 480 Pearl 444 Penobscot, Siege of 295 Porter, Captain David... 162, 164, 166, 168 Proctor, Colonel Henry 350 et seq. Rowland, Jonathan 233 Robert Town 463 St. Clair, General Arthur 244 St. Paul's Island 423 Sea King 388, 393 Senegal, "battle of 130 Seventy-fourth Foot 303 Shenandoah 389 et seq. Sophia Thornton 467 Stockton, Commodore Robert P 5 Susan 404 Susan and Abigail 469 Taylor, Rev. E. T 189 Thirty Years from Home (Leech)... 3 Thom, Rev. George 147, 148 Thoreau, H. D 201 Tristan d'Acunha Island 411 United States 90, 100, 104 Waddell, James 1 394 et seq. Waldegrave, Captain 44 Waverley 476 "White Jacket" 5 William C. Nye 474 William. Thompson 468
Page Scan 11
Blank page
Page Scan 12
Blank page
Page Scan 13
Blank page
Page Scan 14
Blank page
This page contains an image.
End of Index. Continue to next section or 
Title Page
Page 1
THIRTY YEARS FROM HOME OR A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK BEING THE EXPERIENCE OF SAMUEL LEECH WHO WAS FOR SIX YEARS IN THE BRITISH AND AMERICAN NAVIES: WAS CAPTURED IN THE BRITISH FRIGATE MACE- DONIAN: AFTERWARDS ENTERED THE AMERICAN NAVY, AND WAS TAKEN IN THE UNITED STATES BRIG SYREN, BY THE BRITISH SHIP MEDWAY :: . :-. BOSTON PUBLISHED BY TAPPAN & DENNET 114 Washington Street 1843 NEW YORK Reprinted WILLIAM ABBATT (Being Extra No. 9 of The Magazine of History with Notes and Queries) 1909
Page 2
Blank page
Page 3
PREFACE I have often been solicited, by my personal friends, to commit the incidents of my life to paper. It was thought that they contained sufficient interest to command public attention. At any rate, there is a novelty in the fact of an unlettered sailor's appearance before the public, detailing the secrets of the naval Main Deck. The Quarter Deck has long and often told its own story, and has given its own coloring to naval life. Here, however, is a voice from the main deck, revealing life in a man of war as it appears to the sailor himself. As such, this work has some claim on the attention of the public. I have endeavored to state facts as they were when I was a sailor, and in the ships to which I belonged. My object is to give a true picture. That, I have done, as far as a remarkably strong memory enabled me. I kept no journals, and consequently some slight mis- takes in names, dates and places, may be found in my book; but I have been careful to state nothing as facts, of which I was not cer- tain. That the naval service has improved since I belonged to it, is, I believe, universally admitted. I rejoice at it. Still, it is not yet what it should be. If this work should, in any degree, stir up the public mind to amend the condition of seamen, I shall feel gratified, and fully repaid for the labor of placing these facts on record. With many prayers that the perusal of these pages may do good, I leave the reader to pursue his way along the track of my experi- ence: assuring him, that what may afford him pleasure to read, has cost me much pain to suffer. Samuel Leech. s
Page 4
4 PREFACE RECOMMENDATIONS From the Hon. Erastus Corning. ALBANY, N. Y., December 3, 1842. To WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: I have known and have had intercourse with Mr. Samuel Leech, for the last twenty years, and have always found him honorable in his dealings, and consider him entitled to the confidence of the public as a man of strict integrity. ERASTUS CORNING. The undersigned, being acquainted with Mr. Samuel Leech, the author of the following work, do cheerfully vouch for his moral and Christian character; and assure the public, that the interesting volume, which he here presents to the world, may be relied upon as an honest statement of facts, with which the writer was personally conversant; and as having no fellowship whatever with those fictitious tales of the sea, which, under the garb and professions of truth, have been prof- fered to the reading community. CHARLES ADAMS, Principal Wes. Academy. JOHN BOWERS, Pastor Cong. Church, Wilbraham, Mass. WILBRAHAM, May 4, 1843. DAVID PATTEN, Pastor, Providence, R. I. REUBEN RANSOM, Presiding Elder, Springfield Dis. N. E. C. HENRY CHASE, Preacher to Seamen, N. Y.
Page 5
PREFACE NARRATIVES of service, a century ago, written by pri- vate soldiers, are rare, but such by common sailors are almost unknown. Samuel Leech's narrative " Thirty Years from Home, a voice from the Main-Deck " is a unique book, and now scarce. It is a valuable contribution to our history, giving a sailor's experience in both British and American navies, and being the sole account by a British seaman of the capture of the Macedonian by the United States, in 1812. The revelations he makes of the cruel treatment of their men by British naval officers are unfortunately matched by the similar account of life on the same frigate United States, then under com- mand of "Captain Claret" in 1843-44, given by Herman Melville in his remarkable book " White Jacket, or the World in a Man of War." Though he is writing of an era thirty years later than Leech's, the picture is equally distressing. Leech also gives almost as bad a character to Captain David Porter (father of the late Admiral David D. Porter) as to the British tyrants. It should be recorded in this connection, that flogging was abolished in the United States navy in 1851, through the efforts of Commodore Robert P. Stockton. The book has never been reprinted before since its original ap- pearance (1843.) — The late Rear Admiral S. R. Franklin (Memories of a Rear Admiral, 1898), who was midshipman on the United States when Herman Melville was of the crew, says Captain Claret was Captain James Armstrong, and the Commodore Thomas Ap Catesby Jones. He adds: "Melville's White Jacket had more influence in abolishing corporal punishment in the Navy than anything else. A copy of It was placed on the desk of every member of Congress, and was a most eloquent appeal to the humane sentiment of the country." 0
Page 6
Blank page
Page 7
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK CHAPTER I WERE it not that the most common of all inquiries, re- specting every man who comes before the public, is, "who is he? whence did he proceed? who were his parents?" &c., I would not detain the reader with any account of my humble ancestors and their circumstances. But, since men nat- urally expect this information, and would hence consider my narra- tive imperfect without it, I shall take the liberty to introduce them. My father's occupation was that of valet de chambre to Lord William Fitzroy, son of the Duke of Grafton. My recollections concerning him are few and indistinct, as he died while I was yet scarcely three years old. One little incident alone reminds me of wearing a mourning dress as a memento of sorrow for his death. Returning from the parish church in Walthamstow, I observed the larger boys amusing themselves by swinging across the rails of the fences; endeavoring to join in their amusement, my hands slipped, and falling into a muddy ditch, I nearly finished my course, ere it was well begun, by a violent death. A benevolent stranger, how- ever, rescued me, and once safe, my grief for the sad condition of my little black frock was excessive and inconsolable. A trifling cause for sorrow, to be sure, yet men and women often grieve for causes equally contemptible. Although my personal remembrances of my father's death are so indistinct, yet the frequent mention made of him by my mother, has left the pleasing impression on my mind that he died a Chris- tian. "I have thought of my numerous sins, but God has forgiven them all. Be not troubled, for the Lord will provide for you and 7
Page 8
8 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK your children. You need not fear to leave me, for I am not alone; God is with me, though you are out of the room," were among his dying expressions; when, after fourteen months' endurance of the pains which accompany a slow consumption, he approached "that bourne from which no traveller returns." I expect to find my hon- ored father in heaven. Wanstead, in Essex, about seven miles from the great metropo- lis of England, was the town, and 1798 the year, of my birth. Were it necessary to designate the place more particularly, it might be said that the part of Wanstead where I first struggled into being, was called Nightingale Place; a most musical name, conferred in honor of the nightingales which abounded in the vicinity. Two years subsequently to my father's demise, my mother be- came an inmate of the family of Lady Francis Spencer, daughter of the Duke of Grafton, and wife of Lord Spencer. As a conse- quence of this event, I was deprived of a mother's care and con- signed to the charge of my aunt Turner, whose family amounted to the very respectable number of twenty-two sons and two daughters. The transfer of a child from the care of its parent to that of an- other person, may appear, at first sight, to be a very unimportant incident; but trifling as it seems, it often exerts an influence which very materially changes the destiny of the child: it was so in my case. Most of my cousins were sailors, and some of them were con- stantly returning home, bringing, with true sailors' munificence, the pleasing and curious productions of distant climes as presents to their parents and friends; then, seated round the bright hearth- side, they used to tell of wild adventures and hair-breadth escapes, spinning out the winter evening's tale to the infinite delight of their willing listeners. Poor fellows! three of them died at sea; two more, John and Richard, perished in the ill-fated Blenheim, a sev- enty-four gun ship of the British navy, which went down off the Cape of Good Hope, with seven hundred as brave men on board as ever trod a plank. Notwithstanding these sad recollections, and
Page 9
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 9 though none perceived it, my three years' residence among these "sailors bold" decided the nature of my future calling; it capti- vated my imagination and begat a curiosity, which ultimately led me to make my " home upon the bounding deep." An orphan is ever exposed to changes. The loss of either parent calls for a degree of sympathy and kindness from others, which they are rarely willing to expend except on their own. Such is the al- most universal selfishness of human nature. My experience affords a verification of the truthfulness of the remark. For some cause or other, it became inconvenient for me to remain with my kind aunt Turner, and my next home was with a widowed aunt, at Wanstead, where I did not meet with the same kindness of treatment. The breaking of a cup, or any of the thousand-and-one offences found in the list of juvenile defects, was sure to bring upon me the infliction of the rod; and, what was equally painful, my most economical aunt exacted the full payment for all these losses from the little pocket money I obtained by holding a horse, running errands, or as new- year and Christmas presents; thus gratifying her temper and her covetousness at once, besides embittering, to some extent, the boy- ish hours of my unfortunate self. There is no evil in the management of children to be more dep- recated than that species of treatment which tends to destroy their happiness. Correction for obvious faults, in a proper manner, is essential to their proper moral training; but a habit of incessantly scolding them for every little accident or offence, only serves to ex- cite the growth of evil passions and to make them dislike their home; things to be avoided as much as Scylla and Charybdis by the careful mariner. The influence of such mal-treatment follows the child through life, like an evil genius, materially affecting his views of life and the temper of his mind. For aught that now occurs to me, but for this unkindness, my early predilection for the sea would have died within me; while, as it was, I panted to enjoy the freedom my fancy painted in its pictures of sailor life. To add to my sor- 9
Page 10
10 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK rows, my mother removed my sister, who had been my cheerful com- panion and true friend, to a lady's school at Woodstock, in Oxford- shire, for the twofold purpose of affording her greater literary ad- vantages, and of being able to see her more frequently. Several incidents occurred during my abode here, which tended to increase my growing desire. A smart, active sailor, over six feet in height, and well-proportioned, one day presented himself at my aunt's door. He told us he had been to America, where he had seen a young man named George Turner, who was her nephew and my cousin. He proceeded to tell many fine stories about him, and at last inquired if she should not like to see him, and if she should know him. "I don't know as I should," said my aunt, " he has been away so long." "Well, then," replied he, " I am George Turner!" This fine, bold seaman, then, was my own cousin, son to my aunt Turner; he had been eleven years at sea, and, after visiting his parents, took this method of surprising his aunt. Most likely he has made this adventure the subject of many a forecastle yarn since then. While he remained he was so jolly, so liberal, and so full of pleasant stories, that I began to feel quite sure that sailors were noble fellows. We were also favored with a visit from an uncle, then visiting Europe from the West Indies. He was one of two brothers, who were educated at Greenwich for the navy. One of them had en- tered the British navy, and by dint of merit and hard service rose to the possession of a commission in the service, but ultimately per- ished at sea. This one had chosen the merchant service, but after- wards settled at Antigua. He took me with him to London, and carried me over the West India docks; he being well acquainted with many of the captains, they treated me with playful attention, inquiring if I did not wish to be a cabin-boy, and the like When I 10
Page 11
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 11 returned to Wanstead, it was with a stronger desire than ever to be a sailor. My uncle went to Trinidad, and died shortly after. A very pleasant piece of intelligence greeted me soon after these incidents; it was nothing less than my removal from the care of my unkind aunt to the roof of my mother. Weary of her widow- hood, she had again become a wife. My new parent was a widower with one son; a carpenter by occupation, in the employ of the Duke of Marlborough. Great was my joy when this fact was communi- cated to my young mind. I hailed it as a deliverance from bond- age, and with beaming eyes and cheerful face hurried to bid adieu to my classmates in the day and in the Sunday school—a sad proof of the unfitness of my aunt for her task; since a child properly treated, will love its home too well to quit it without a tear; and if parents and guardians wish to prevent their children from being wanderers and stragglers through the wide world, let me bid them exert the utmost effort to make their home pleasant. Throw a charm round it, make it enchanted ground, cause it to become, in the language of a living poet, "The fairy ring of bliss" and then your children will love it too well to wander. But I was now about to leave Wanstead, and, although de- lighted to be rid of the surveillance of a cross old relation, there were some things which threw an air of sadness occasionally over my mind. There were many pleasant associations connected with the place; its beautiful park, with herds of timid deer grazing under its tall oaks, upon whose green old heads the sun had shone for cen- turies; the venerable mansion, seated like a queen amid the sylvan scene; the old parish church, with its gorgeously painted windows, to which I had often walked on the Sabbath with my fellow-scholars in the Sabbath school, and beside whose deep-toned organ I had sat listening to the learned priest; the annual hunt at Easter, in which I had often joined the crew of idle lads that gave chase to the dis- 11
Page 12
12 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK tracted deer; and the pleasant walks, made cheerful by the songs of innumerable birds, in Epping forest, were all to be left—perhaps forever. This thought made me somewhat sad, but it was swal- lowed up in the joy I felt when my mother appeared to conduct me to Bladen, some sixty miles from London, which was the place of her abode since her marriage. Behold me then, gentle reader, seated with my mother on the outside of a stage-coach, with some ten fellow-passengers. The stage-coach of England is quite a different vehicle from the car- riage known by that name in America. True, it is drawn by four horses, and it runs on four wheels, but here the likeness ends; in- stead of being built to carry twelve persons inside, it carries but six, while outside it has seats for twelve. Three or four passengers ride very comfortably behind, in what is called the basket, which is the territory of the guard, as the boot before is of the coachman. All mail coaches, and all others travelling in the night, carry a guard, or an armed man, for the purpose of protecting the coach from the attacks of footpads or highway robbers. The dullness of our journey was somewhat relieved, after a long season of silence, by the distress of an unfortunate passenger, who, falling asleep, nodded so violently, that his hat, supposing it was re- ceiving notice to quit, very unceremoniously took leave of the skull it covered, and plunged into the mud. The outcry of the poor pas- senger, who was soon waked by the wind sporting amid his hair, and his unavailing requests to stop the stage, put us all into good humor with ourselves and with each other. We had another source of relief in the antics of a wild, hair- brained sailor. From spinning yarns, which looked amazingly like new inventions, he would take to dancing on the roof of the coach; at the foot of a hill he would leap off, and then spring up again with the agility of a monkey, to the no small amusement of the passen- gers. The more I saw of this reckless, thoughtless tar, the more 12
Page 13
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 13 enamored I became with the idea of a sea life; and thus this journey to my mother's new abode was another link in the chain that de- cided my future destiny in the drama of life. How strangely and imperceptibly do small events tend to unexpected results. A match may fire a city and lay desolate the work of ages; a single leak may sink a bark and carry desolation to a hundred firesides—and trifles in the daily scenes of human life, give character to our immortality. We cannot, therefore, too carefully watch the influence of small events, especially on young minds. At Woodstock, famed in the annals of England as the scene of the loves of King Henry and Rosamond Clifford, we quitted our stage companions, and proceeded on foot to Bladesn, two miles dis- tant. Our road lay through Blenheim or Woodstock park, which we entered through the triumphal arch, a spacious portal, erected to the memory of John, Duke of Marlborough, by Sarah, his duch- ess. On entering the park, which is nearly twelve miles in circum- ference, one of the most beautiful prospects imaginable disclosed itself. Blenheim Palace, which is among the most magnificent piles of architecture in England, appeared in front; on the left were to be seen a part of the village of Woodstock, and on the right a broad and spacious lake, crossed by a superb bridge;1 a lofty column on the rising ground, erected in honor of John, Duke of Marlborough, on which is the statue of that noble warrior; a delightful valley, hills, plantations, herds of deer feeding, shady groves and ancient trees, all conspired to render the scene enchantingly beautiful. Blenheim Palace, or Castle, was built at the public expense, in the reign of Queen Anne, and was given, with its annexed de- mesnes, in concurrence with the voice of parliament, to John, Duke of Marlborough, as a testimony of royal favor and national grati- 1 Near this bridge is a spring, called Rosamond's Well, where Henry II. is said to have contrived a labyrinth, by which his guilty fair one communi- cated with the castle. IS
Page 14
14 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK tude for his successes over the French and Bavarians; particularly for his victory at Blenheim, on the banks of the Danube, on the 2d of August, 1704. Crossing the park towards Bladen, we were met by my father-in-law,2 who received me with a kindness which prepossessed me at once in his favor; he conducted us home, where, to my no small gratification, I met my sister. My father-in-law appeared to be in comfortable circumstances. He resided in a very neat house, built of stone, shaded by a noble apricot tree, and ornamented with a small but pretty garden. This, together with another similar tenement, was his own property. To add to my satisfaction, I perceived that he was very kind to my mother, and also to myself. She one day expressed a desire to have the cold stone floor of the kitchen removed, and boarded instead; my father, at considerable expense, gratified her wish; this assured me of his regard for her comfort. With the village itself, I was equally well pleased. Though containing few houses, it was delightfully pleasant. Fine farms, with large flocks of quiet sheep grazing on their hill-sides; expan- sive fields, surrounded with fragrant hawthorn hedges; and old farm-houses, with their thatched roofs, and massive wheat ricks, met the pleased eye on all sides; while cultivated gardens and numerous wild flowers, especially the modest, cowslip and humble violet, scented the air and perfumed the breeze. Thus far, perhaps, Bla- den was equal to Wanstead; but in its moral aspects it was inferior. There was far less regard for the Sabbath; less attention to the moral culture of the young, than at the latter place. That blessed institution, which has vivified and renewed the church, which has filled her with the vigorous pulsations of youth—from which, as 2 This form of "step-father" seems not to have been unusual in England 1800-50. Cf. Sam Weller's addressing his father's second wife as "mother-in-law." 14
Page 15
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 15 from some prolific nursery, she has obtained the plants, which now stand on her mountain-tops like the tall cedars of Lebanon—the modest, unassuming Sabbath school was not there. Consequently, the Sabbath was spent in roaming about the fields, in amusements, in visiting, in taking excursions to a place called Ramsden, some seven miles distant. True, there was a parish church, with two clergymen belonging to its altars, but there was service only once every Sunday within its ancient walls. During Lent, however, both priests and people were more religious; the church was better attended; the children were examined as to their knowledge of the church catechism! They were even excited to diligence in commit- ting it to memory by the inducement of reward. A Bible and two prayer books were given to the lads who excelled in answering the questions. At the first Lent examination after my coming to Bla- den, the Bible, the highest prize, was awarded to me, and the second year the minister assigned me the task of hearing the others recite— a striking proof of the benefit of Sunday school instruction; it gave me both a moral and mental superiority over all my compeers in the little village of Bladen. This special attenton to religion only lasted during the term of Lent; when, with a return to the use of meat, the people returned to the neglect of the Sabbath. The inhabitants of Bladen were very social in their habits. They held an annual feast, called Bladen feast, to which they in- vited their friends from other towns; it commenced on Sabbath and continued three days. Eating, drinking, talking, fortune-telling, gambling, occupied three days of wassail and jollity; after which the visitors returned to their respective towns, and the people to their occupations. The neighboring villages gave similar feasts in their turn. They were occasions of much evil and folly. My time flew very rapidly and pleasantly away for two or three years, until, like most children, I began to sigh for deliverance from the restraints of home. I had already left school, and for some time, being now about thirteen years of age, had been em- 15
Page 16
16 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK ployed in the pleasure-grounds of Blenheim Palace. This, how- ever, was too tame a business for a lad of my spirits. I had heard tales of the sea from my cousins; my mother had filled my mind with the exploits of my grandfather; my imagination painted a life on the great deep in the most glowing colors; my mind grew un- easy; every day, my ordinary pursuits became more and more irk- some, and I was continually talking about going to sea; indeed, I had made myself unhappy by being so discontented. Little do lads and young men know of the difference between the comfort of a parent's roof and the indifference, unkindness, and trouble they invariably experience, who go out into the world, until they have made the experiment. They paint everything in bright colors; they fancy the future to be all sunshine, all sweets, all flowers, but are sure to be wofully disappointed, when once away from the fireside of their infancy. Let me advise young people, if they wish to escape hardships, to be contented, to remain quietly at home, abiding the openings of Providence, obeying the wishes of their parents, who not only have their best good at heart, but, how- ever they may think to the contrary, actually know what is most for their advantage. My passion for a seaman's life was not a little increased by a soldier, who was sergeant to a company in Lord Francis Spencer's regiment of cavalry. Seated by my father's hearth-side, this old soldier, who had once been a sailor, would beguile many an evening hour with his endless tale, while I sat listening in enrapt attention. My mother, too, heedlessly fanned the flame by her descriptions of the noble appearance of the ships she had seen when at Brighton. Besides this, a footman at Blenheim House used to sing a song called "the poor little sailor boy;" which, although somewhat gloomy in its descriptions, only served to heighten the flame of de- sire within me, until I could think of nothing else, day or night, but of going to sea. Finding my desires so strong, my kind-hearted mother men- 16
Page 17
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 17 tioned them to Lady Spencer. Just at that time, her brother, Lord William Fitzroy, who was then expecting the command of a frigate, and with whom my departed father had lived as valet, happened to visit Blenheim, previously to going to sea. Anxious to serve my mother, Lady Spencer mentioned me to Lord Fitzroy. He sent for me. Trembling in every joint, I was ushered into his presence. He inquired if I should like to go to sea. "Yes, my lord, I should," was my ready answer. He dismissed me, after some further ques- tionings; but was heard to say, before he left, that he would take me under his care, and see to my future advancement. These dazzling prospects not only well nigh turned my brain, but decided my parents to send me to sea. To have their son an officer in the navy was an unlooked-for honor; and they now entered into my plans and feelings with almost as much ardor as myself. Alas! We were all doomed to learn how little confidence can be placed in the promises of nobles! Not long after Lord Fitzroy's departure, we received a letter stating the fact of his appointment to his majesty's frigate Macedo- nian, which, being out of dock, was rapidly preparing for sea. This intelligence was the signal for bustle, excitement, preparation, and I know not what. Friends and gossips constantly crowded in to administer their gratuitous advice; some predicting, to my infinite delight, that certainly so smart a boy would make a great man; others wore very grave countenances, and gave certain expressive shrugs of the shoulders, while they told of flogging through the fleet, or of being " seized up " for merely a look or a word; in short, but for a strong conviction in my own breast that this was all said for effect, it is doubtful whether they would not have succeeded in deterring me from my purpose. At last, after much ado, the long-expected day arrived when I was to bid farewell to home and friends, to venture abroad upon an unknown future. It would only vex the reader by its common- 17
Page 18
18 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK place character, or I would reveal all the nice little acts of parental, brotherly and neighborly affection which took place. Suffice it to say, that my parting was very much the same as that of all other boys of twelve, when they leave home for the first time—a mixture of hopes and fears, of tears and smiles, of sunshine and cloud. Attended by my mother and her infant daughter, on the 12th day of July, 1810, I turned my back on the quiet hamlet of Bladen. Henceforth my lot was to be cast amid noise, dissipation, storms and danger. This, however, disturbed my mind but little; brushing away a tear, I leaped gaily on to the outside of the coach, and in a few minutes, enveloped in a cloud of dust, was on my way to London, filled with the one absorbing idea, " I am going to sea! I am going to sea!" Should the reader take the trouble to read the following chapters, he will learn the mishaps, hardships, pleasures and successes that befell me there; and though my narrative may not be filled with the witching tales, and romantic descriptions, that abound in the works of the novelist, it shall at least commend itself to his notice for its truthfulness. 18
Page 19
CHAPTER II BEFORE we sought the decks of the Macedonian we paid a short visit to Wanstead, where we met with very pleasant reception, very hospitable entertainment, very affectionate adieus. Returning to London, we hired a boat and sailed down the Thames, on whose bosom reposed the commerce of the world, to Gravesend, where we spent the night. The next morning I expe- rienced a new gratification, which was nothing less than being ar- rayed in a complete suit of sailor apparel; a tarpaulin hat, round blue jacket and wide pantaloons. Never did young knight swell with loftier emotion when donning for the first time his iron dress, than I did when in sea dress I trod the streets of Gravesend. This had always been my highest ambition. The gaudily dressed soldier never had charms for me; but a sailor, how nice he looked! Well, here I stood, at last, in the often coveted dress; it was the first lux- ury connected with my life at sea. Pity that each successive step had not yielded me equal delight. But it was mine to learn that anticipation and reality were not born twins; that in fact there are scarcely any two existences so essentially different in their charac- teristics. That I should not lack the means of comfort, my good mother purchased me a chest of clothing, and, as her last token of maternal care, presented me with a Bible, a prayer book, and, strangely inconsistent companions, a pack of cards! Thus equipped, we once more hired a boat and descended the river two miles below Gravesend, where lay the Macedonian, in graceful majesty on the sparkling waters. The first guest we met on board was disappointment. From the promises of Lord Fitzroy, we very strangely supposed that he 19
Page 20
20 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK felt my importance nearly as much as did my mother or father. Judge then liow we felt, when we learned that no one knew any- thing in particular about my veritable self; yet, as his Lordship was absent, they said I might remain on board until his return. This was rather a damper on my spirits, but flattering myself that all would be right on his return, I soon rallied again, and, aided by the presence of my mother, passed a very agreeable day. Towards night, my mother left me; it scarcely need be said, she wept when we parted. What mother would not? She did weep, she strained me to her heart, and impressed affection's purest kiss upon my cheek. How like a dream that moment fled! Now, she held me in her arms; a moment after, she was seated in the light boat and gliding along the turbid Thames, on her homeward way. I leaned over the taff rail and gazed on the departing boat, and when it disappeared, I turned away and wept. The morning after my arrival, I was put into a " mess." The crew of a man of war is divided into little communities of about eight, called messes. These eat and drink together, and are, as it were, so many families. The mess to which I was introduced, was composed of your genuine, weather-beaten, old tars. But for one of its members, it would have suited me very well; this one, a real gruff old " bull-dog," named Hudson, took into his head to hate me at first sight. He treated me with so much abuse and unkindness, that my messmates soon advised me to change my mess, a privilege which is wisely allowed, and which tends very much to the good fel- lowship of a ship's crew; for if there are disagreeable men among them, they can in this way be got rid of; it is no unfrequent case to find a few, who have been spurned from all the messes in the ship, obliged to mess by themselves. This unkindness from the brutal Hudson rather chilled my enthusiasm. The crew, too, by some means had an impression that my mother had brought me on board to get rid of me, and therefore 20
Page 21
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 21 bestowed their bitterest curses on her in the most profuse manner imaginable. Swearing I had heard before, but never such as I heard there. Nor was this all; in performing the work assigned me, which consisted in helping the seamen take in provisions, pow- der, shot, etc., I felt the insults and tyranny of the midshipmen. These little minions of power ordered and drove me round like a dog, nor did I and the other boys dare interpose a word. They were officers; their word was our law, and woe betide the presump- tuous boy that dared refuse implicit obedience. These things reminded me of what had been said to me of the hardships of sea life in a man of war. I began to wish myself back in my father's house at Bladen. This, however, was impossible, and to add to my discouragement they told me I was entered on the ship's books for life. Dreary prospect! I felt more than half dis- posed, as I went to my tasks, to use the language of the Irishman, as sung by my shipmates. Tempted and beguiled while intoxi- cated, he had enlisted for a soldier, but found the sergeant at the recruiting office and the sergeant on the drill-field very different personages. He is hence made to say, "It was early next morning to drill I was sent, And its och to my soul! I began to lament; Cannot you be aisy and let me alone? Don't you see I've got arms, legs, and feet of my own?" But although somewhat grieved with my first experience of sailor life, I secretly struggled against my feelings, and with the most philosophic desperation resolved to make the best of my con- dition. We were kept busily at work every day until the ship's stores were all on board, and our frigate was ready for sea. Then two hundred more men, draughted from receiving ships, came on board, to complete the number of our crew, which, after this addi- tion, numbered full three hundred men. The jocularity, pleas- antry, humor and good feeling that now prevailed on board our 21
Page 22
22 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK frigate, somewhat softened the unpleasantness of my lot, and culti- vated a feeling of reconciliation to my circumstances. Various lit- tle friendships, which sprang up between me and my shipmates, threw a gleam of gladness across my path; a habit of attention, re- spect and obedience in a short time secured me universal good will. I began to be tolerably satisfied. Many boys complain of ill usage at sea. I know they are sub- jected to it in many instances; yet, in most cases, they owe it to their own boldness. A boy on shipboard, who is habitually saucy, will be kicked and cuffed by all with whom he has to do; he will be made miserable. The reason is, I imagine, that sailors, being treated as inferiors themselves, love to find opportunity to act the superior over some one. They do this over the boys, and if they find a saucy, insolent one, they show him no mercy. Permit me, then, to advise boys who go to sea, to be civil and obliging to all; they will be amply repaid for the effort it may cost them to make the trial, especially if they gain the reputation, as I did, of being among the best boys in the ship. A vessel of war contains a little community of human beings, isolated, for the time being, from the rest of mankind. This com- munity is governed by laws peculiar to itself; it is arranged and di- vided in a manner suitable to its circumstances. Hence, when its members first come together, each one is assigned his respective sta- tion and duty. For every task, from getting up the anchor to un- bending the sails, aloft and below, at the mess-tub or in the ham- mock, each task has its man, and each man his place. A ship con- tains a set of human machinery, in which every man is a wheel, a band, or a crank, all moving with wonderful regularity and preci- sion to the will of its machinist—the all-powerful captain. The men are distributed in all parts of the vessel; those in the tops are called fore-top-men, main-top-men, and mizzen-top-men, with two captains to each top, one for each watch. These top-men 22
Page 23
A VOICE FROM THE MAIX DECK 23 have to loose, take in, reef and furl the sails aloft, such as the top- gallant sails, top-sails, top-gallant royal, and top-sail studding- sails. Others are called forecastle men, waisters, and the after- guard; these have to loose, tend, and furl the courses, that is, the fore-sail, the main-sail and lower studding-sails; they also have to set the jib, flying-jib, and spanker; the after-guard have a special charge to coil up all ropes in the after part of the ship. Others are called scavengers; these, as their not very attractive name imports, have to sweep and pick up the dirt that may chance to gather through the day, and throw it overboard. Then come the boys, who are mostly employed as servants to the officers. Our captain had a steward and a boy; these acted as his domestic servants in his large and stately cabin, which, to meet the ideas of landsmen, may be called his house. The lieutenants, purser, surgeon, and sailing- master, had each a boy; they, together with the two lieutenants of marines, who were waited upon by two marines, form what is called the ward-room officers. The ward-room is a large cabin, (I mean large for a ship, of course,) below the captain's, where they all mess together; aft of this cabin is a smaller one, which serves as a species of store-room. Besides these accommodations, every ward-room officer has his state-room, containing his cot, wash-stand, writing- desk, clothes, etc. The gunner, boatswain, and some others, are also allowed a boy; and a man and boy are appointed to be the serv- ants of a certain number of midshipmen. Another arrangement is that of forming the ship's company into watches. The captain, first lieutenant, surgeon, purser, boat- swain, gunner, carpenter, armorer, together with the stewards and boys, are excused from belonging to them, but are liable to be called out to take in sail; some of the last mentioned are called idlers. All others are in watches, called the larboard and starboard watches. Stations are also assigned at the guns, to the whole crew. When at sea, the drummer beats to quarters every night. This beat, by which the men are summoned to quarters, is a regular tune. 23
Page 24
24 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK I have often heard the words sung which belong to it; this is the chorus: "Hearts of oak are our ships, jolly tars are our men, We always are ready, steady, boys, steady, To fight and to conquer again and again." At the roll of this evening drum, all hands hurry to the guns. Eight men and a boy are stationed at each gun, one of whom is cap- tain of the gun, another sponges and loads it, the rest take hold of the side tackle-falls, to run the gun in and out; while the boy is em- ployed in handing the cartridges, for which he is honored with the singularly euphonious cognomen of powder-monkey. Besides these arrangements among the men, there are from thirty to forty marines to be disposed of. These do duty as sen- tries at the captain's cabin, the ward-room, and at the galley during the time of cooking. They are also stationed at the large guns at night, as far as their numbers run. When a ship is in action, and small arms can be brought to bear on the enemy, they are stationed on the spar-deck; they are also expected to assist in boarding, in conjunction with several seamen from each gun, who are armed with pistols and pikes, and called boarders. The great disparity of numbers between the crew of a mer- chant ship and that of a man of war, occasions a difference in their internal arrangements and mode of life, scarcely conceivable by those who have not seen both. This is seen throughout, from the act of rousing the hands in the morning to that of taking in sail. In the merchantman, the watch below is called up by a few strokes of the handspike on the forecastle; in the man of war, by the boat- swain and his mates. The boatswain is a petty officer, of consider- able importance in his way; he and his mates carry a small silver whistle or pipe, suspended from the neck by a small cord. He re- ceives word from the officer of the watch to call the hands up. You immediately hear a sharp, shrill whistle; this is succeeded by an- 24
Page 25
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 25 other and another from his mates. Then follows his hoarse, rough cry of " All hands ahoy!" which is forthwith repeated by his mates. Scarcely has this sound died upon the ear, before the cry of " Up all hammocks ahoy!" succeeds it, to be repeated in like manner. As the first tones of the whistle penetrate between decks, signs of life make their appearance. Rough, uncouth forms are seen tumbling out of their hammocks on all sides, and before its last sounds have died upon the air, the whole company of sleepers are hurriedly pre- paring for the duties of the day. No delay is permitted, for as soon as the before-mentioned officers have uttered their imperative commands, they run below, each armed with a rope's end, with which they belabor the shoulders of any luckless wight upon whose eyes sleep yet hangs heavily, or whose slow-moving limbs show him to be but half awake. With a rapidity which would surprise a landsman, the crew dress themselves, lash their hammocks and carry them on deck, where they are stowed for the day. There is system even in this arrangement; every hammock has its appropriate place. Below, the beams are all marked, each hammock is marked with a corre- sponding number, and in the darkest night, a sailor will go unhesi- tatingly to his own hammock. They are also kept exceeding clean. Every man is provided with two, so that while he is scrubbing and cleaning one, he may have another to use. Nothing but such pre- cautions could enable so many men to live in so small a space. A similar rapidity attends the performance of every duty. The word of command is given in the same manner, and its prompt obedience enforced by the same unceremonious rope's-end. To skulk is therefore next to impossible; the least tardiness is rebuked by the cry of " Hurrah my hearty! bear a hand! heave along! heave along!" This system of driving is far from being agreeable; it perpetually reminds you of your want of liberty; it makes you feel, sometimes, as if the hardest crust, the most ragged garments, with the freedom of your own native hills, would be preferable to John 25
Page 26
26 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK Bull's "beef and duff," joined as it is with the rope's-end of the driving boatswain. We had one poor fellow, an Irishman, named Billy Garvy, who felt very uneasy and unhappy. He was the victim of that mortify- ing system of impressment, prevalent in Great Britain in time of war. He came on board perfectly unacquainted with the mysteries of sea life. One of his first inquiries was, where he should find his bed, supposing they slept on shipboard on beds the same as on shore. His messmates, with true sailor roguishness, sent him to the boat- swain. "And where shall I find a bed, sir?" asked he of this rugged son of the ocean. The boatswain looked at him very contemptuously for a mo- ment, then, rolling his lump of tobacco into another apartment of his ample mouth, replied, "Have you got a knife?" "Yes, sir." "Well, stick it into the softest plank in the ship, and take that for a bed!" Poor fellow! what was sport for others was pain to him. He had been used to kind treatment at home. After he had received his hammock, when turning out in the morning, with the boatswain's mates at his heels, he used to exclaim, "When I was at home, I would walk in my father's garden in the morning, until the maid would come and say, 'William, win you come to your ta, or your coffee ta, or your chocolarata?' But, oh! the case is altered now; it's nothing but bear a hand, lash and carry. Oh, dear!" I confess that Billy Garvy was not the only one who contrasted the present with the past, or who found the balance to be greatly in favor of the former. I often looked back to the village of Bla- den, and thought how preferable would be the bright hearth-side 26
Page 27
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 27 and pleasant voices of that quiet home, to the profane, rough, un- comfortable life we led on shipboard. As these reflections were anything but pleasurable, I banished them as quickly as possible, with a determination to be as happy as I could in my station of servant to the surgeon of His Britannic Majesty's frigate Mace- donian: a resolution which I commend to all lads, who, like me, are foolish enough to quit the quiet scenes of a native village, for the noisy, profane atmosphere of a man of war. As our fare was novel and so different from shore living, it was some time before I could get fully reconciled to it: it was com- posed of hard sea biscuit, fresh beef while in port, but salt pork and salt beef at sea, pea soup and burgoo. Burgoo, or, as it was sport- ively called, skillagallee, was oatmeal boiled in water to the consist- ency of hasty pudding. Sometimes we had cocoa instead of bur- goo. Once a week we had flour and raisins served out, with which we made " duff " or pudding. To prepare these articles, each mess had its cook, who drew the provisions, made the duff, washed the mess kids, etc. He also drew the grog for the mess, which consisted of a gill of rum mixed with two gills of water for each man. This was served out at noon every day: at four o'clock, P. M., each man received half a pint of wine. The boys only drew half this quan- tity, but were allowed pay for the remainder, a regulation which could have been profitably applied to the whole supply of grog and wine for both boys and men. But those were not days in which Temperance triumphed as she does now; though, I believe, the British navy has not yet ceased to dispense the "drink that's in the drunkard's bowl " to her seamen. Shortly after our captain came on board, his servant died some- what suddenly, so that I had an early opportunity of seeing how sailors are disposed of in this sad hour. The corpse was laid out on the grating, covered with a flag; as we were yet in the river, the body was taken on shore and buried, without the beautiful burial- service of the church of England being read at his grave—a cere- 27
Page 28
28 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK mony which is not omitted at the interment of the veriest pauper in that country. I have purposely dwelt on these particulars, that the reader may feel himself initiated at once into the secrets of man-of-war usages. He has doubtless seen ships of war with their trim rigging and frowning ports, and his heart has swelled with pride as he has gazed upon these floating cities—the representatives of his nation's character in foreign countries: to their internal arrangements, however, he has been a stranger. I have endeavored to introduce him into the interior: a desire to make him feel at home there, is my apology for dwelling so long on these descriptions. After various delays, we were at last ready for sea and under sailing orders. The tide and wind were both propitious; then came the long-expected cry of the boatswain, "All hands up anchor ahoy!" The crew manned the capstan in a trice, and running round to the tune of a lively air played by the fiTer, the huge anchor rapidly left the mud of the Thames, and hung at the bows of our taut frigate. Then came the cry of "All hands make sail ahoy!" As if by magic, she was immediately covered with canvas; the favoring breeze at once filled our sails, and the form that had lain for weeks inert and motionless on the waters, now bounded along the waves like a thing of life. Rapidly we ran down the Channel, and before we had well got under weigh came to an anchor again at Spithead, under shelter of the garden of England—the Isle of Wight. Short as was the period between weighing anchor off Grave- send and our arrival at Spithead, it gave opportunity for one of those occurrences which are a disgrace to the naval service of any nation, and a degradation to our common humanity, which the pub- lic opinion of the civilized world should frown out of existence: I allude to the brutal practice of flogging. A poor fellow had fallen into the very sailorlike offence of get- 28
Page 29
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 29 ting drunk. For this the captain sentenced him to the punishment of four dozen lashes. He was first placed in irons all night: the irons used for this purpose were shackles fitting round the ankles, through the ends of which was passed an iron bar some ten or twelve feet in length: it was thus long because it was no unfrequent case for half a dozen men to be ironed at once. A padlock at the end of the bar held the prisoner securely. Thus placed in "duress vile," he was guarded by a marine until the captain bade the first lieutenant prepare the hands to witness the punishment. Upon this the lieutenant transmitted the order to the master at arms. He then ordered the grating or hatch full of square holes to be rigged: it was placed accordingly between the main and spar decks, not far from the mainmast. While these preparations were going on, the officers were dress- ing themselves in full uniform and arming themselves with their dirks: the prisoner's messmates carried him his best clothes, to make him appear in as decent a manner as possible. This is always done, in the hope of moving the feelings of the captain favorably towards the prisoner. This done, the hoarse, dreaded cry of "All hands ahoy to witness punishment!" from the lips of the boatswain, peals along the ship as mournfully as the notes of a funeral knell. At this signal the officers muster on the spar deck, the men on the main deck. Next came the prisoner; guarded by a marine on one side and the master at arms on the other, he was marched up to the grating. His back was made bare and his shirt laid loosely upon his back; the two quartermasters proceeded to seize him up; that is, they tied his hands and feet with spun-yarns, called the seizings, to the grating. The boatswain's mates, whose office it is to flog on board a man of war, stood ready with their dreadful weapon of punishment, the cat-o'-nine-tails. This instrument of torture was composed of nine cords, a quarter of an inch round and about two feet long, the ends whipt with fine twine. To these cords was 29
Page 30
30 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK affixed a stock, two feet in length, covered with red baize. The reader may be sure that it is a most formidable instrument in the hands of a strong, skilful man. Indeed, any man who should whip his horse with it would commit an outrage on humanity, which the moral feeling of any community would not tolerate; he would be prosecuted for cruelty; yet it is used to whip men on board ships of war! The boatswain's mate is ready, with coat off and whip in hand. The captain gives the word. Carefully spreading the cords with the fingers of his left hand, the executioner throws the cat over his right shoulder; it is brought down upon the now uncovered hercu- lean shoulders of the man. His flesh creeps—it reddens as if blushing at the indignity; the sufferer groans; lash follows lash, until the first mate, wearied with the cruel employment, gives place to a second. Now two dozen of these dreadful lashes have been inflicted: the lacerated back looks inhuman; it resembles roasted meat burnt nearly black before a scorching fire; yet still the lashes fall; the captain continues merciless. Vain are the cries and prayers of the wretched man. "I would not forgive the Saviour," was the blasphemous reply of one of these naval demi-gods, or rather demi-fiends, to a plea for mercy. The executioners keep on. Four dozen strokes have cut up his flesh and robbed him of all self-respect; there he hangs, a pitied, self-despised, groaning, bleed- ing wretch; and now the captain cries, forbear! His shirt is thrown over his shoulders; the seizings are loosed; he is led away, staining his path with red drops of blood, and the hands, "piped down " by the boatswain, sullenly return to their duties. Such was the scene witnessed on board the Macedonian, on the passage from London to Spithead; such, substantially, is every punishment scene at sea; only carried, sometimes, to a greater length of severity. Sad and sorrowful were my feelings on wit- nessing it; thoughts of the friendly warnings of my old acquaint- ance filled my mind, and I inwardly wished myself once more so
Page 31
A VOICE FKOM THE MAIN DECK 31 under the friendly roof of my father, at Bladen. Vain wish! I should have believed the warning voice when it was given. Believe ine, young man, you will often breathe that wish, if ever you wander from a father's house. Flogging in the navy is more severe than in the army, though it is too bad to be tolerated there, or indeed anywhere. Other modes of punishment might be successfully substituted, which would deter from misconduct, without destroying the self-respect of the man. I hope the day will come, when a captain will no more be allowed to use the "cat" than he is now to use poison. It should be an interdicted weapon. Though I have spoken severely of the officers of the navy, let it not be thought that the whole class of naval officers are lost to the finer feelings of humanity. There are many humane, consid- erate men among them, who deserve our highest respect. This was the case with the first lieutenant of the Macedonian, Mr. Scott. He abhorred flogging. Once, when a poor marine was under sen- tence, he plead hard and succesfully with the captain for his respite. This was a great victory; for the captain had a profound hatred of marines. The poor soldier was extremely grateful for his inter- cession, and would do anything for him to show his sense of the obligation; indeed, the sailors, in their odd way, showed their pref- erence for him by describing him as a man who had a soul to be saved, and who ought to go to heaven; while of the captain, they whispered that if he did not go to perdition, "the devil would be cheated of his due." These are, in a manner, proverbial expres- sions of like and dislike, on board a British man of war. One of the effects of this exhibition of cruelty was seen during the short time we lay at Spithead. The two boys, who were serv- ants to the first and second lieutenants, conceiving a special dis- like to the idea of being flogged, took it into their heads to run away. Being sent on shore, they shaped their course for the coun- try. It was well for them that they were not re-taken. 31
Page 32
32 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK Our frigate had orders to convey between two and three hun- dred troops from Portsmouth to Lisbon, to assist the Portuguese against the French. The soldiers were stowed on the main decks, with very few conveniences for the voyage; their officers messed and berthed in the ward-room. Having taken them on board, we again weighed anchor, and were soon careering before the breeze on our way to Lisbon. As usual, we who were landsmen had our share of that merci- less, nondescript, hateful, stultifying disease, yclept sea-sick- ness; as usual, we wished the foolish wish that we had never come to sea; as usual, we got over it, and laughed at ourselves for our sea-sick follies. Our good ship paid little attention, however, to our feelings; she kept along on her bounding way, and, after a week at sea, we were greeted with the pleasant cry of " Land ho!" from the mast-head. As it was now near night, we lay off and on until morning; at day-break we fired a gun for a pilot. The wind "being nearly dead ahead, we had to beat about nearly all day. Towards night it became fair, and we ascended the Tagus. This river is about nine miles wide at its mouth, and is four hundred and fifty miles in length; it has a very rapid current, with steep, fertile banks. Aided by a fine breeze, we ascended it in splendid style, passed a half-moon battery, then shot past Belem Castle into the port of Lisbon, about ten miles from its mouth. Here we found a spacious harbor, filled with shipping. Besides numerous merchantmen, there were two ships of a hundred guns, several seventy-fours, frigates and sloops of war, with a large number of transports; all designed for the defence of Lisbon against the French. Lisbon has a fine appearance from the harbor. A stranger, after a long sea-voyage, whle standing on the deck of his vessel, and gazing on its battlements and towers, might fancy it to be a terrestrial paradise; but, on landing, his admiration would cer- 32
Page 33
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 33 tainly sink below zero, as he plodded his way, beset by saucy beg- gars at almost every step, through its narrow, filthy streets. Such, at least, was my impression, as I perambulated the city. Among other things, I noticed a great variety of churches and convents, which furnished swarms of plump, good-natured friars, under whose spiritual domination the good people of Lisbon were content to rest. I also counted thirteen large squares. One of them con- tained a huge black horse, standing in its centre, with the figure of a man upon his back, both much larger than life. What this monument represented, I dd not learn. That square is denomi- nated Black Horse Square. On the day after our arrival, the Macedonian was the scene of considerable bustle. The troops, who seemed to forget their proximity to a field of carnage, in the delight they felt at escaping from the confinement on shipboard, were landed; several boats' crews were also sent up the river to assist in the defence of the place. While we lay here, our ship was well supplied with fruits from the shore. Large bunches of delicious grapes, abundance of sweet oranges, water-melons, chestnuts, and also a bountiful supply of gigantic onions, of peculiar flavor, enabled our crew to gratify their palates in true English style. Poor fellows! they feasted, laughed, and joked, as if the future had nothing to develop but fairy scenes of unmixed delight. Little thought, indeed, does your true tar take of the morrow. Amid these feastings, however, there rose something to trouble Macbeth, in the shape of an order from the admiral to prepare for a cruise. This was peremptory;—for a cruise, therefore, we pre- pared. Our boats' crews came on board; the officers stored their larder with the means of gustatory gratifications; and we stood out to sea again. The port of Corunna, in Spain, was the next place at which we 33
Page 34
34 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK anchored. While lying in this spacious and safe harbor, our little world was thrown into temporary confusion by the loss of the ward- room steward, Mr. Sanders. This man could speak in the Spanish tongue; he had accumulated a considerable sum of money by long service, prize money, and an economy little known among sailors. For some cause or other he had become dissatisfied; so, one day, he engaged a Spaniard to run his boat under the stern of our frigate; dropping from one of the stern ports into the boat, unperceived by the officers, the wily Spaniards covered him with their loose gar- ments and sails, and then conveyed him to the shore. This was running a great risk; for had he been detected in the act, or taken afterwards, he would have felt the cruel strokes of the lash. For- tunately for himself, he escaped without detection. From Corunna, we returned to Lisbon, where, at the cheerful cry of "All hands bring the ship to an anchor, ahoy!" we once more placed our frigate, taut and trim, under the battlements of the city. As servant to the surgeon, it was one part of my duty to per- form the task of carrying his clothes to be washed. As great atten- tion to cleanliness, in frequently changing their linen, is observed among naval officers, a good washerwoman is considered quite a desideratum. In attending to this matter for my master, I had frequent opportunities to go on shore. This gave me some means of observation. On one of my visits to our pretty laundress, I saw several Portuguese running along, gesticulating and talking with great earnestness. Being ignorant of their language, my washer- woman, who spoke good English, told me that a man had been stabbed, in consequence of some ground for jealousy, afforded by the conduct of the deceased. Hastening to the spot, I saw the wounded man, stretched out on a bed, with two gaping wounds in his side, the long knife, the instrument of the deed, lying by his side. The poor sufferer soon died. What was done to the murderer, I could not discover. 34
Page 35
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 35 Though very passionate, and addicted to the use of the knife, for the purpose of taking summary vengeance, the Portuguese are nevertheless arrant cowards. Indeed, it is a question by no means settled, whether all classes of men, in any country, who fly to cold steel or to fire-arms in every petty quarrel, are not cowards at heart. We had an evidence of Portuguese cowardice in an affray which occurred between some of the citizens of Lisbon and a party of our marines. Six of the latter, ignorant of the palace or muni- cipal regulations, wandered into the queen's gardens. Some twenty of the Portuguese, on witnessing this bold intrusion on the privacy of the queen, rushed upon them with long knives. The marines, though so inferior in number, faced about with their bayo- nets, and, after much cursing and chattering, their enemies, consid- ering perhaps that the better part of valor is discretion, took to their heels, leaving the six marines masters of a bloodless field. These recontres were quite common between them and our men; the result, though sometimes more serious, was uniformly the same. As an illustration of the manners of this people, I cannot for- bear the insertion of another fact. I was one day walking leisurely along the streets, quite at my ease, when the gathering of a noisy multitude arrested my attention. Looking up, I was shocked at seeing a human head, with a pair of hands beneath it, nailed to a pole! They had just been taken from the body of a barber, who, when in the act of shaving a gentleman, was seized with a sudden desire to possess a beautiful watch, which glittered in his pocket; to gain this brilliant bauble, the wretched man cut his victim's throat. He was arrested, his hands were cut off, then his head, and both were fastened to the pole as I have described them. Upon inquiry, I ascertained that this was the ordinary method of punishing mur- der in Portugal; a striking evidence that civilization had not fully completed its great work among them. Civilization humanizes the feelings of society, throwing a veil of refinement and mercy over even the sterner acts of justice; at any rate, it never tolerates such barbarism as I saw at Lisbon. 35
Page 36
36 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK While in port we experienced a change of officers by no means agreeable to the crew. Mr. Scott, our first lieutenant, an amiable man, decidedly hostile to the practice of flogging, left us; for what cause, we could not ascertain. His successor, Mr. Hope, though bearing a very pleasant name, was an entirely different person, in manners and conduct, from his predecessor. He was harsh, severe, and fond of seeing the men flogged. Of course, floggings became more frequent than before; for, although a lieutenant cannot flog upon his own authority, yet, such is the influence he exerts over a captain, that he has the utmost opportunity to gratify a thirst for punishment. It may appear strange to the reader that any gentle- man—and all officers of the navy consider themselves gentlemen —should possess such a thirst; yet such was the case with Mr. Hope. Nor was his a solitary example; many a man, who, on shore, in presence of ladies of fashion, appeared too gentle to harm an enemy, too kind to injure an insect, was strangely metamorphosed into a genuine unprincipled tyrant, upon assuming command in a man of war. We had already witnessed a number of punishments, especially at sea: in port, the officers were more condescending, lest their men should desert; but at sea, when this was impossible, they flogged without mercy. Cases of offence which occurred while in the har- bor, were looked up; sometimes a half dozen were flogged at once; every man trembled lest he should be a victim; the ship's crew were made wretched; a sword seemed impending over every head. Who, in such a case, could be happy? Not even a sailor, with all his hab- itual thoughtlessness. Yet it is said we must flog, to maintain dis- cipline among sailors. Pshaw! Flogging may be needful to awe a slave writhing under a sense of unmerited wrong, but never should a lash fall on a freeman's back, especially if he holds the safety and honor of his country in his keeping. Poor old Bob Hammond! Never was man more reckless than this honest-hearted Irishman; never was sailor more courageous 36
Page 37
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 37 under punishment. For being drunk he received four dozen lashes; he bore the infliction with profound silence, uttering neither groan nor sigh; neither casting one imploring look at his tormentors. On being taken down, he applied himself most lustily to his bottle, and before night was drunk again. Rushing to the quarter deck, with a madness peculiar to a phrensied drunkard, he ran up against the captain with such force that he nearly knocked him down. With a boldness that seemed to strike the great man dumb, Bob hiccupped and said, "Halloo, Billy, my boy, is that you? You are young and fool- ish; just fit for the launch. You are like a young lion—all your sorrows are to come." The captain was excessively proud; even his officers scarcely dared walk the quarter deck on the same side with him. He never allowed himself to be addressed but by his title of "my Lord." Should a sailor, through design or forgetfulness, reply to a com- mand, "Yes, sir," the lordly man would look at him with a glance full of dignity, and sternly reply, "What, sir?" This, of course, would put the offender in mind to correct himself by saying, " Yes, my Lord." Judge then of his surprise, indignation, nay, of his lordly horror, when poor old drunken Bob Hammond called him "Billy, my boy!" Doubtless it stirred up his nobility within him, for, with a voice of thunder, he exclaimed, " Put this man in irons!" It was done. The next morning, his back yet sore, poor Bob re- ceived five dozen more strokes of the hated cat-o'-nine-tails. Most heroically was it borne. No sound escaped him; the most profound silence was observed by all, broken only by the dead sound of the whip, as it fell every few moments on the wounded back. The scene was sickening in the extreme. Let me throw a veil over its details, simply remarking that it is questionable which of the two appears to the best advantage; poor drunken Bob, suffering de- grading torture with heroic firmness, or my Lord Fitzroy, gloating 87
Page 38
88 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK on the scene with the appetite of a vulture! Let the reader decide for himself. These statements may at first sight appear incredible. It may be asked how a man could endure whippings which would destroy an ox or a horse. This is a very natural question, and but for the consciousness I feel of being supported in my statements by the universal testimony of old men-of-war's-men, I should hesitate to publish them. The worst species of this odious torture, however, remains to be described—flogging through the fleet. This punishment is never inflicted without due trial and sen- tence by a court-martial, for some aggravated offence. After the offender is thus sentenced, and the day arrives appointed by his judges for its execution, the unhappy wretch is conducted into the ship's launch—a large boat—which has been previously rigged up with poles and grating, to which he is seized up; he is attended by the ship's surgeon, whose duty it is to decide when the power of nature's endurance has been taxed to its utmost. A boat from every ship in the fleet is also present, each carrying one or two offi- cers and two marines fully armed. These boats are connected by tow lines to the launch. These preparations made, the crew of the victim's ship are or- dered to man the rigging, while the boatswain commences the trag- edy. When he has administered one, two or three dozen lashes, according to the number of ships in the fleet, the prisoner's shirt is thrown over his gory back; the boatswain returns on board, the hands are piped down, the drummer beats a mournful melody, called the rogue's march, and the melancholy procession moves on. Arriving at the side of another ship, the brutal scene is repeated, until every crew in the fleet has witnessed it, and from one to three hundred lashes have lacerated the back of the broken-spirited tar to a bleeding pulp. He is then placed under the surgeon's care, to be fitted for duty—a ruined man—broken in spirit! all sense of self- 38
Page 39
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 39 respect gone, forever gone! If he survive, it is only to be like his own brave bark, when winds and waves conspire to dash her on the pitiless strand, a wretched, hopeless wreck; a living, walking shadow of his former self. Shameful blot! most foul and disgrace- ful stain on the humanity of England! How long before this worse than barbarism will disappear before the mild influences of civilization and Christianity? No plea of necessity can be successfully urged in behalf of whipping men; for, if subordination or faithful adhesion to orders is expected to follow such terrible examples, I know, from my ac- quaintance with the sufferers themselves, that the expectation is vain. One of two results always follows. The victim either lives on, a lone, dark-minded, broken-spirited man, despising himself and hating every one, because he thinks every one hates him; or he lives with one fearful, unyielding purpose; a purpose on which he feeds and nourishes his galled mind, as food affords life and energy to his physical constitution—that purpose is revenge. I have heard them swear—and the wild flashing eye, the darkly frowning brow, told how firm was that intent—that if ever they should be in battle, they would shoot their officers. I have seen them rejoice over the misfortunes of their persecutors, but more especially at their death. That it has frequently led to mutiny, is well verified. I have known such severity to result in actual murder. While we lay at Lisbon, a sergeant of marines, on board a seventy-four, made himself obnoxious by repeated acts of tyranny. Two marines de- termined upon his death. One night, unperceived by any, they seized him, hurried him to the gangway, and pitched him overboard. The tide was running strong; the man was drowned! But for themselves his fate would have remained a secret until the great day of judgment; it was discovered by an officer, who accidentally overheard them congratulating each other on their achievement. He betrayed them. A court-martial sentenced them. They were placed on deck with halters on their necks. Two guns were fired, 39
Page 40
40 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK and, when the smoke cleared away, two men were seen dangling from the foreyard-arm. Only one day previous, a letter had brought a discharge from the service for one of them. Poor fel- low! it came too late. He was fated to a summary discharge from all service, in a manner appalling and repulsive to every finer hu- man feeling. Such are the actual consequences of severity of discipline on board men of war. Punishment leads to revenge; revenge to pun- ishment. What is intended to cure, only aggravates the disease; the evil enlarges under the remedy; voluntary subordination ceases; gloom overspreads the crew; fear fills the breasts of the offi- cers; the ship becomes a miniature of the house of fiends. While, on the other hand, mild regulations, enforced without an appeal to brute force, are easily carried into operation. The sailor has a warm heart; show him personal kindness, treat him as a man, he will then be a man; he will do anything for a kind officer. He will peril his life for him; nay, he will cheerfully rush between him and danger. This was done at Tripoli, when the brave James3 offered his own arm to receive the fell stroke of a Turkish scimitar, aimed at the life of the bold Decatur, on board the frigate Philadelphia. Let naval officers, let all ship-masters, once fairly test the effect of kind treat- ment, and I am sure they will never desire to return to severity; unless, indeed, they are tyrants at heart, in which case, the sooner they lose their commands the better for their country; for no tyrant is truly brave or trustworthy. Cowardice and meanness lie curled up in the heart of every tyrant. He is too despicable, too unsafe to be trusted with the responsibilities of a naval command. Such, at least, is the opinion of an old sailor. One of the greatest enemies to order and happiness in ships of war is drunkenness. To be drunk is considered by almost every sailor as the acme of sensual bliss; while many fancy that swearing 3 Reuben James. See his life by C. T. Brady. S 40
Page 41
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 41 and drinking are necessary accomplishments in a genuine man-of- war's-man. Hence it almost universally prevails. In our ship the men would get drunk, in defiance of every restriction. Were it not for the moral and physical ruin which follows its use, one might laugh at the various contrivances adopted to elude the vigilance of officers in their efforts to procure rum. Some of our men who be- longed to the boats' crews provided themselves with bladders; if left ashore by their officers a few moments, they would slip into the first grocery, fill their bladders, and return with the spoil. Once by the ship's side, the favorable moment was seized to pass the inter- dicted bladders into the port-holes, to some watchful shipmate, by whom it was carefully secreted, to be drunk at the first opportunity. The liberty to go on shore, which is always granted while in port, was sure to be abused for drunken purposes. The Sabbath was also a day of sensuality. True, we sometimes had the semblance of religious services, when the men were summoned aft to hear the captain read the morning service from the church prayer-book; but usually it was observed more as a day of revelry than of wor- ship. But at Christmas our ship presented a scene such as I had never imagined. The men were permitted to have their 'full swing." Drunkenness ruled the ship. Nearly every man, with most of the officers, was in a state of beastly intoxication at night. Here, some were fighting, but were so insensibly drunk, they hardly knew whether they struck the guns or their opponents; yonder, a party were singing libidinous or bacchanalian songs, while all were laughing, cursing, swearing or hallooing; confusion reigned in glo- rious triumph; it was the very chaos of humanity. Had we been at sea, a sudden gale of wind must have proved our destruction; had we been exposed to a sudden attack from an enemy's vessel, we should have fallen an easy prey to the victor; just as the poor Hes- sians, at Trenton, fell before the well-timed blow of the sage Wash- ington, during the war of the revolution. Of all places, the labors of temperance men are most needed 41
Page 42
42 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK among sailors; and I am glad to know that much has been accom- plished among them already. From what I know of the suffer- ings and difficulties growing out of intemperance at sea, I most heartily desire to see a temperance flag floating at the mast-head of every ship in the world. When this is seen, sailors will be a happier class than ever they have yet been, from the time when the cautious Phenicians crept timidly round the shores of the Medi- terranean, to the present day of bold and fearless navigation.
This page contains an image.
Page 43
CHAPTER III SHORTLY after the Christmas debauch, mentioned in the preceding chapter, news was brought to the admiral that nine French frigates were cruising on the Spanish coast: immedi- ately, all was excitement, bustle, preparation through the fleet. The Hannibal and Northumberland, both seventy-four gun ships, the Ccesar of eighty guns, called by the sailors the Old Bull-dog, a gun brig, and some others, I forget the names, and the Macedonian, were ordered to sail in pursuit of the French. This formidable force dropped down the river, every man composing it eagerly de- siring to meet the enemy. The enterprise however, was unsuccess- ful; after cruising in vain for several days, the admiral signalled the fleet to return. Before reaching port we fell in with a Scotch ship from Greenock, in a most perilous condition; her masts and rudder were gone, while her numerous leaks were fast gaining on the labors of the already exhausted crew at the pumps. Finding it utterly impossible to save the vessel, we took off the crew; and thus our cruise, though defeated in its main design, proved the means of rescuing several poor wretches from a watery grave. It is a question worthy of consideration, whether this was not a really higher result than if we had found and beaten the French, and had returned in a crippled state, leaving some hundreds killed and wounded. Humanity would answer, yea. So far as the effects of this cruise concerned our own little frigate, they were really quite serious. We were reefing topsails one night, at sea, when the sailing-master, Mr. Lewis, in a fit of ill-humor, threatened to flog some of the men. The captain over- heard him. Feeling himself hurt by this assumption of his own 43
Page 44
44 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK prerogative, he told Mr. Lewis that he was captain in the ship, and it was his business to flog the men. Sharp words followed; the captain was exasperated; he ordered the sailing-master to be put in irons. Here, however, he exceeded his own power, for, though he might place the common sailor in irons, he might not do so by an officer with impunity. Accordingly, when we reached Lisbon, a court-martial sat on the case, which resulted in their both being broken or cashiered. This was a hard blow for Lord Fitzroy, and he obviously felt it most keenly. It also cut off my expectations of being elevated to the quarter deck; for, although I had never received any direct encouragement from his Lordship, yet I had always nourished the hope that ultimately he would keep the promise he made to my mother, and do something for my advancement. Now, however, my hopes were destroyed. I was doomed to the forecastle for fife. Lord Fitzroy was succeeded by Captain Carson. He how- ever, was soon removed to make way for Captain Waldegrave, who proved to be far more severe than Fitzroy. He and Lieutenant Hope were kindred spirits: cruelty seemed to be their delight, for at the presence of culprits tied to the gratings, a gleam of savage animation stole over their faces. Punishment was now an almost every-day scene; even the boys were not permitted to escape. A lad was appointed boatswain over them, and they were consigned to the care of Mr. Hope, who took especial delight in seeing them flogged. What a mean, dastardly spirit for a British officer! How utterly contemptible he appears engaged in whipping a few helpless sailor boys! Yet thus he did constantly appear, causing them to be flogged for every trifling offence. One poor little fel- low, unable to tolerate the thought of the lash, hid himself in the cable tier for several days. He was discovered, only to be most shamefully punished. These severities filled our crew with discouragement. A sailor 44
Page 45
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 45 dreads the dishonor of the lash. Some, urged by a nice sense of honor, have preferred death to its endurance. I have heard of one man who actually loaded himself with shot and deliberately walked overboard. Among our ship's company the effects of these severe measures showed themselves in frequent desertions, notwithstand- ing the great risk run by such a bold measure; for, if taken, they were sure to meet with a fearful retribution. Still, many preferred the chance of freedom; some ran off when on shore with the boats, others dropped overboard in the night, and either swam on shore or were drowned. Many others were kept from running away by the strength of their attachment to their old messmates and by the hope of better days. Of those who escaped, some were retaken by the Portuguese, who delighted to hunt them up for a small sum of money. Two of my messmates, named Robert Bell and James Stokes, were taken in this manner. I felt greatly affected at los- ing their company, for they were pleasant fellows. I felt a pe- culiar attachment to poor Stokes; he had taught me many things which appertain to seamanship, and had cared for my interests with the faithfulness of a parent. O how anxiously did I desire they might not be detected, because I knew, if they were, that they were doomed men. But they were taken by a band of armed Portu- guese; barefooted, desponding, broken in spirit, they were brought on board, only to be put in irons immediately. By a fortunate chance they escaped with fifty lashes, instead of being flogged through the fleet. We had another man who escaped, named Richard Sutton- wood; he was very profane, and was much in the habit of using the word "bloody;" hence he was nicknamed "Bloody Dick" by his shipmates. Well, Dick ran off. He succeeded in getting on board an English brig in the merchant service. But how chop-fallen was poor Dick when he found that this brig was laden with powder for his own frigate! Resolving to make the best of the matter, he said nothing of his relation to our frigate, but as soon as the brig dropped 45
Page 46
46 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK alongside of the Macedonian, he came on board and surrendered himself; by this means he escaped being flogged, as it was usual to pardon a runaway who voluntarily returned to his duty. The crew were all delighted at his return, as he was quite popular among them for his lively disposition and his talents as a comic singer, which last gift is highly prized in a man of war. So joy- ous were we all at his escape from punishment, that we insisted on his giving a concert, which went off well. Seated on a gun surrounded by scores of the men, he sung a variety of favorite songs, amid the plaudits and encores of his rough auditors. By such means as these, sailors contrive to keep up their spirits amidst constant causes of depression and misery. One is a good singer, another can spin tough forecastle yarns, while a third can crack a joke with sufficient point to call out roars of laughter. But for these interludes, life in a man of war, with severe officers, would be absolutely intolerable; mutiny or desertion would mark the voy- ages of every such ship. Hence, officers in general highly value your jolly, merry-making, don't-care sort of seamen. They know the effect of their influence in keeping away discontented thought from the minds of a ship's company. One of these official favorites paid our frigate a visit while we lay in Lisbon. We had just fin- ished breakfast, when a number of our men were seen running in high glee towards the main hatchway. Wondering what was going forward, I watched their proceedings with a curious eye. The cause of their joy soon appeared in the person of a short, round- faced, merry-looking tar, who descended the hatchway amid cries of " Hurrah! here's happy Jack!" As soon as the jovial little man had set his foot on the berth deck, he began a specimen of his vocal powers. The voice of song was as triumphant on board the Mace- donian, as it was in days of yore in the halls of Ossian. Every voice was hushed, all work was brought to a standstill, while the crew gathered round their favorite, in groups, to listen to his un- equalled performances. Happy Jack succeeded, while his visit 46
Page 47
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 47 lasted, in communicating his own joyous feelings to our people, and they parted from him at night with deep regret. A casual visitor in a man of war, beholding the song, the dance, the revelry of the crew, might judge them to be happy. But I know that these things are often resorted to, because they feel mis- erable, just to drive away dull care. They do it on the same princi- ple as the slave population in the South, to drown in sensual grati- fication the voice of misery that groans in the inner man—that lives within, speaking of the indignity offered to its high nature by the chain that eats beyond the flesh—discoursing of the rights of man, of liberty on the free hills of a happier clime: while amidst the gayest negro dance, not a heart among the laughing gang but would beat with high emotions and seize the boon with inde- scribable avidity, should it be offered its freedom on the spot. So in a man of war, where severe discipline prevails, though cheerfulness smiles at times, it is only the forced merriment of minds ill at ease; minds that would gladly escape the thraldom of the hated service to which they are bound. Nor is this forced submission to circumstances universal. There are individuals who cannot be reached by these pleasantries; in spite of everything, their spirits will writhe under the gripe of merciless authority. We had a melancholy instance of this species of mind on board our frigate. His name was Hill, the ward-room steward. This man came on board with a resolute purpose to give satisfaction, if possible, to his superiors. He tried his utmost in vain. He was still scolded and cursed, until his condition seemed unendurable. One morning a boy entered the after ward-room, when the first object that met his astonished eye was the body of the steward, all ghastly and bleeding. He had cut his throat, and lay weltering in his gore. The surgeon was called, who pronounced him to be yet alive. The wound was sewed up, the poor sufferer carried to the hospital-ship, which was in attendance on the fleet, 47
Page 48
48 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK where he recovered, to be returned to his former ship, though in another and worse capacity, that of common sailor. We had on board a colored man whose name was Nugent, who possessed a remarkably fine person, was very intelligent, exceed- ingly polite in his manners, and easy in his address. He soon grew weary of the caprices of our officers, and ran away. He was taken, however, in rather a curious manner. The officers frequently walked the deck with their spy-glasses. As one of them was spend- ing a few leisure moments in looking at the surrounding shipping, what should appear within the field of his glass, but the person of the fugitive Nugent on the deck of an American vessel! Upon this, a boat was despatched, which soon returned with the crest- fallen deserter, who was unceremonously thrown into irons. By some fortunate chance, however, he escaped a flogging. Of course, my situation was as unpleasant as that of any other person on board. I could not witness the discomfort and ill-usage of others, without trembling for my own back. I, too, had thoughts of running away, as opportunities frequently offered themselves. But, being ignorant of the Portuguese language, I wisely concluded that my condition among them, if I got clear, would, in respect to my present state, bear about the same analogy as the fire does to the frying-pan. My little adventures on shorq gave me full assurance of this fact. I remember going ashore on Good Friday. Like good Catholics, the Portuguese had the masts of their vessels crossed, with effigies of the traitor Judas hanging very significantly at their jib-booms. On shore, they were exhibiting the blasphemous mim- icry of the solemn scene of the crucifixion. One was bearing the cross, another a sponge, a third the vinegar. The streets were crowded with images of the saints, to which all reverently bowed. Woe betide that sacrilegious wretch who refused this tribute to their darling images. He was sure of being knocked down; he was not sure of getting home alive. I was fain to yield my knees to save 48
Page 49
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 49 my skull; so for the time I was as good a Catholic as any of them, at least in the matter of bowing and crossing: it was done, however, with true Protestant mental reservation, and with a sincere deter- mination to prefer my man-of-war's life to a life in Portugal. On another occasion, some of our officers took me on shore to help them attend to some purchases. After following them a con- siderable distance, they gave me a small commission to execute, with directions to return to the ship as soon as it was attended to. This was no easy task, however: they had conducted me to a strange part of the city, and I knew scarcely a word of Portuguese. There I stood, then, surrounded only by foreigners, who neither under- stood my language nor I theirs. All I knew of my destination was, that our boat lay near the Fish-market; so, for Fish-market I in- quired. Speaking in English, I asked the first man I met to direct me. He looked at me with the empty stare of an idiot, and passed on. To the next, I said, partly in broken Portuguese and partly in my own tongue, "John," (they call everybody John, whose true name they do not know,) "do show me the fish-market." He could not understand me; so, shrugging his shoulders, he said, "No en- tender Englis," and passed on. I asked several others, but invari- ably received a shrug of the shoulder, a shake of the head, and a "no entender Englis," for an answer. I grew desperate, and be- gan to feel as if I had lost myself, when, to my unutterable satisfac- tion, I saw an English soldier. I ran up to him and said, "Good luck to you; do tell me where the fish-market is, for these stupid Portuguese, bad luck to them, can't understand a word I say; but it is all, no entender Englis." My countryman laughed at seeing my English temper ruffled, and placed me in the way of reaching the fish-market. I hurried thither, when, to my chagrin, the boats were all gone. Here, then, was another difficulty; for, though there were plenty of Portuguese boatmen, they could not under- stand which ship I wished to reach. Here, however, my fingers did what my tongue refused; our ship had its mainmast out, so, holding 49
Page 50
50 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK up two fingers and pointing to the mast, they at last comprehended me and conveyed me on board. Coming alongside, I gave them what I thought was right; but they and I differed in opinion on that point; they demanded more, with considerable bluster, but the sentry shouted, " Shove off there! " and pointed his musket at them. Whether they thought a reasonable fee, and a timely retreat, better than a contest which might give them the taste of a musket-ball, I cannot determine; at all events, I know that boat never left ship faster than theirs, when they beheld the gleam of the sentry's mus- ket flashing in their dark faces. Just after this adventure, I came very near being flogged, to my no small alarm. Happening on shore with two more of the offi- cers' servants, named Yates and Skinner, we stayed so late, the ship's boats had all gone off. Finding the boats gone, we strayed back into the city; night came on, and our return until morning was impossible. We had to wander about the city all night, in constant fear of being apprehended by the Portuguese as deserters. To prevent this no very desirable result, my comrades made me a mid- shipman; for the satisfactory reason, that if an officer was supposed to be in our company, no one would trouble us. The summary process by which I was inducted into my new station, was by means of a stripe carefully marked on my collar with a piece of chalk, to imitate the silver lace on a middy's coat. Thus exalted, I marched my company about Lisbon until dawn, when I again found myself the self-same Samuel Leech, servant to the surgeon of H. M. frig- ate Macedonian, that I was the previous evening, with this addi- tional fact, however, I was now liable to be flogged. So, in the true spirit of a Jeremy Sneak, we went on board, where, with due cere- mony, we were parted for separate examinations. What tale my fellow-wanderers invented, I know not; for my own part, I told the truth of the matter, excepting that I suppressed that part of it which related to my transformation into an officer. Luckily for us all, one of the party was the first lieutenant's servant; if he flogged 50
Page 51
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 51 one, he must flog the whole. To save the back of his own boy, he let us all escape. We were now ordered on another cruise. Being in want of men, we resorted to the press-gang which was made up of our most loyal men, armed to the teeth; by their aid we obtained our full numbers. Among them were a few Americans; they were taken without respect to their protections, which were often taken from them and destroyed. Some were released through the influence of the American consul; others, less fortunate, were carried to sea, to their no small chagrin.4 The duties of the press-gang completed, we once more weighed anchor, and were soon careering before the gales of the bay of Bis- cay. Our reception in this proverbially stormy bay was by no means a civil one. We met with an extraordinarily severe gale, in which we came very near foundering. We had just finished dinner, when a tremendous sea broke over us, pouring down the hatchway, sweeping the galley of all its half-cooked contents, then being prepared for the officers' dinner, and covering the berth deck with a perfect flood. It seemed as if old Neptune really intended that wave to sink us to Davy Jones' locker. As the water rolled from side to side within, and the rude waves without beat against her, our good ship trembled from stem to stern, and seemed like a human being gasping for breath in a struggle with death. The women (there were several on board) set up a shriek, a thing they had never done before; some of the men turned pale; others cursed and tried to say witty things; the officers started; orders ran along the ship to man the chain-pumps, and to cut holes through the berth deck to let the water into the hold. These orders being rapdly obeyed, the ship was freed from her danger. The confusion of the * To prevent the recovery of these men by their consul, the press-gang usually went ashore on the night previous to our going to sea; so that before they were missed they were beyond his protection. Sometimes they were cleared on our return to port. 51
Page 52
52 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK moment was followed by laughing and pleasantries. That gale was long spoken of as one of great danger. It is strange that sailors, who see so much peril, should treat religion with such neglect as it is usual for them to do. When danger is imminent, they send up a cry for help; when it is past, they rarely return a grateful thank-offering. Yet how truly and eloquently has the Psalmist shown, in the 107th Psalm, what should be the moral effect of the wonders of the deep. What but a deep- rooted spiritual perversity prevents such an effect? The next incident that disturbed the monotony of our sea-life, was of a melancholy character. We had been giving chase to two West Indiamen the whole of one Sabbath afternoon; at night it blew so hard we had to reef top-sails; when a poor fellow, named John Thomson, was knocked from the yard. In falling, he struck some part of the ship, and the wave which opened to receive him, never disclosed his form again. He was a pressed man, an Ameri- can by birth, greatly beloved by his messmates, by whom his death was as severely felt as when a member of a family dies on shore. His loss created a dull and gloomy atmosphere throughout the ship: it was several days before the hands regained their wonted elastic- ity of mind and appearance. My recollections of this cruise are very feeble and indistinct, owing to a severe injury which confined me to my hammock nearly the whole period. The accident which ended in a severe illness had its origin in the following manner. The duty of cleaning knives, plates, dish-covers, &c., for the ward-room, devolved alternately on the boys employed in the ward-room. Having finished this task, one day, in my regular turn, the ward-room steward, a little hot- headed Malay, came to me at dinner-time to inquire for the knives. Not recollecting for the moment, I made no reply; when he angrily pushed me over a sack of bread. In falling my head came in con- tact with the corner of a locker. Feeling much pain, and the blood 52
Page 53
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 53 flowing freely, I went to Mr. Marsh, the surgeon's mate, who dressed it, and bade me take care of it. Probably it would have healed speedily but for the freak of a sailor a few days after, while holy-stoning the decks. By holy-stoning, I mean cleaning them with stones, which are used for this purpose in men of war. These stones are, some of them, large, with a ring at each end with a rope attached, by which it is pulled backwards and forwards on the wet decks. These large stones are called holy bibles; the smaller hand ones are also called holy-stones, or prayer-books, their shape being something like a book. After the decks are well rubbed with these stones, they are wiped dry with swabs made of rope-yarns. By this means the utmost cleanliness is preserved in the ship. It was customary in our ship, during this scrubbing process, for the boys to wash themselves in a large tub provided for the purpose on the main deck. The men delighted in sousing us with water during this operation. After being wounded, as just mentioned, I endeav- ored to avoid their briny libations; but one morning, one of the sail- ors, seeing my anxiety, crept slily up behind me, and emptied a pail of water directly over my head. That night I began both to look and to feel sick. My messmates said I was sea-sick, and laughed at me. Feeling violent pains in my head, ears and neck, I felt re- lieved when it was time to turn in. The next morning, being rather behind my usual time in waiting upon the surgeon, he began to scold me. I told him I was unwell. He felt my pulse, examined my tongue, and excused me. Growing worse, my messmates got down my hammock. I entered it very sick; my head and face swelling very large, and my eyes so sunken I could scarcely see. I remained in this sad situation several weeks, carefully at- tended by the surgeon, and watched by the men as tenderly as their rough hands could perform the office of nurse. My destiny was considered as being sealed, both by the crew and by myself. I was much troubled at the thought of dying: it seemed dark and dreary to enter the valley of the shadow of death without the presence 53
Page 54
54 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK of a Saviour. To relieve my feelings, I frequently repeated the Lord's prayer, taught me by my indulgent mother in my earlier and brighter years. But my mind was dark and disconsolate; there were none among that kind-hearted but profligate crew to point my soul to its proper rest. While lying in this state, my life hanging in a doubtful bal- ance, one of the crew, named Black Tom, an African, was taken sick. His hammock was hung up in the sick bay, a part of the main deck appropriated to hospital purposes. Poor Tom, having a con- stitution already undermined by former excesses, soon fell under the attack of disease. He was then sewed up in his hammock, with some shot at his feet: at sundown the ship's bell pealed a melancholy note, the ship was " hove to," all hands mustered on deck, but my- self; and, amid the most profound silence, the body of the departed sailor was laid upon the grating and launched into the great deep, the resting-place of many a bold head. A plunge, a sudden open- ing in the water, followed by an equally sudden return of the dis- parted waves, and Black Tom was gone forever from his shipmates! In a few moments the yards were braced round, and our frigate was cutting her way again through the wide ocean waste. It seemed to me that she was soon destined to heave to again, that I might also be consigned to an ocean grave. But in this I was happily dis- appointed. By the blessing of a watchful Providence, the aid of a sound constitution, assisted by the skill of our surgeon and the kind- ness of my shipmates, I was at last able to leave my hammock. Shortly after our return to Lisbon, I was pronounced fit for duty, and the surgeon having obtained another boy, I was placed on the quarter deck, in the capacity of messenger, or errand boy for the captain and his officers. With my return to active life, came my exposure to hardships, and, what I dreaded still more, to punishment. Some of the boys were to be punished on the main deck; the rest were ordered for- ward to witness it, as usual. Being so far aft that I could not hear 54
Page 55
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 55 the summons, as a matter of course, I remained at my post. The hawk-eye of the lieutenant missed me, and in a rage he ordered me to be sent for to receive a flogging for my absence. Excuse was vain; for, such was the fiendish temper of this brutal officer, he only wanted the shadow of a reason for dragging the poor helpless boys of his charge to the grating. While I stood in trembling expecta- tion of being degraded by the hated cat, a summons from the cap- tain providentially called off our brave boy-flogger, and I escaped. The offence was never mentioned afterwards. The reader can easily perceive how such a constant exposure to the lash must em- bitter a seaman's life. Already, since the Macedonian had been in commission, had she changed captains twice. Why it so happened, it is not in my power to explain; but while at Lisbon, after the cruise last men- tioned, our present captain was superseded by Captain John S. Car- den. His arrival excited a transitory hope of a brighter lot, as he was an older man than the others, and, as we vainly trusted, a kinder one. Here, however, we were mistaken; he was like all the rest, the same heartless, unfeeling lover of whip discipline. At first the men under sentence tried their powers at flattery with the grave old man; but he was too experienced a sea-dog to be cajoled by a long- faced sailor under sentence: when, therefore, they told him he was a kind-hearted fatherly gentleman, he only replied by a most pro- voking laugh, and by saying they were a set of very undutiful sons. Captain Carden was mercilessly severe in punishing theft. He would on no account forgive any man for this crime, but would flog the thief almost to death. Of this, we soon had a cruel instance. A midshipman named Gale, a most rascally, unprincipled fellow, found his pocket handkerchief in possession of one of the crew. He charged the man with stealing it. It was in vain that the poor wretch asserted that he found it under his hammock. He was re- ported as a thief; a court-martial sat upon him, and returned the shamefully disproportionate sentence of three hundred lashes 55
Page 56
56 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK through the fleet, and one year's imprisonment! Any of my ship- mates who are living, will certify to the truth of this statement, bru- tal and improbable as it may appear. Nor was that sentence a dead letter; the unhappy man endured it to the letter. Fifty were laid on alongside of the Macedonian, in conformity with a common practice of inflicting the most strokes at the first ship, in order that the gory back of the criminal may strike the more terror into the crews of the other ships. This poor tortured man bore two hundred and twenty, and was pronounced by the attending surgeon unfit to receive the rest. Galled, bruised, and agonized as he was, he besought him to suffer the infliction of the remaining eighty, that he might not be called to pass through the degrading scene again; but this prayer was denied! He was brought on board, and when his wounds were healed, the captain, Shylock-like, determined to have the whole pound of flesh, ordered him to receive the remainder. But for my desire to present the reader with a true exhibition of life on board a British man of war, it would be my choice to sup- press these disgusting details of cruelty and punishment. But this is impossible; I must either draw a false picture or describe them. I choose the latter, in the hope that giving publicity to these facts will exert a favorable influence on the already improving discipline of ships of war. The case of our ship's drummer will illustrate the hopelessness of our situation under such officers as commanded our ship; it will show that implicit, uncomplaining submission was our only resource. This drummer, being seized up for some petty offence, demanded, what no captain can refuse, to be tried by a court-martial; in the hope, probably, of escaping altogether. The officers laughed among each other, and when, a few days afterwards, the poor, af- frighted man offered to withdraw the demand and take six dozen lashes, they coolly remarked, " The drummer is sick of his bargain." 56
Page 57
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 57 He would have been a wiser man had he never made it; for the court-martial sentenced him to receive two hundred lashes through the fleet:—a punishment ostensibly for his first offence, but really for his insolence (?) in demanding a trial by court-martial. Such was the administration of justice (?) on board the Macedonian. "Why did not your crew rise in resistance to such cruelty? " is a question which has often been proposed to me, when relating these facts to my American friends. To talk of mutiny on shore is an easy matter; but to excite it on shipboard is to rush on to certain death. Let it be known that a man has dared to breathe the idea, and he is sure to swing at the yard-arm. Some of our men once saw six mutineers hanging at the yard-arm at once, in a ship whose crew exhibited the incipient beginnings of mutiny. Let mutiny be successful, the government will employ its whole force, if needful, in hunting down the mutineers; their blood, to the last drop, is the terrible retribution it demands for this offence. That demand is sure to be met, as was the case with the crew of the Hermione* frig- ate, and with the crew of the ill-fated Bounty, whose history is im- printed on the memory of the whole civilized world. With such tragedies flitting before our eyes, who need ask why we did not re- sist? Just before we left Lisbon for another cruise, my position was once more changed by my appointment to the post of servant to the sailing-master; whose boy, for some offence or other, was flogged and turned away. Here, too, the captain procured a fine band, composed of Frenchmen, Italians and Germans, taken by the Portuguese from a French vessel. These musicians consented to serve, on condition of being excused from fighting, and on a pledge of exemption from being flogged. They used to play to the cap- 5 The crew of this vessel mutinied, killed their officers, and run the ship into a Spanish port, where she fell into the hands of the Spaniards, then at war with England. Large rewards were offered for these mutineers; many were taken, and all who were taken suffered the penalty of death (1797). 57
Page 58
58 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK tain during his dinner hour; the party to be amused usually consist- ing of the captain and one or two invited guests from the ward- room; except on Sundays, when he chose to honor the ward-room with his august presence. The band then played for the ward- room. They also played on deck whenever we entered or left a port. On the whole, their presence was an advantage to the crew, since their spirit-stirring strains served to spread an occasional cheerful influence over them. Soon after they came on board, we had orders to proceed to sea again on another cruise.

This page contains an image.
Page 59
CHAPTER IV A FEW days after we had fairly got out to sea, the thrilling cry of " A man overboard! " ran through the ship with elec- trical effect; it was followed by another cry of, " Heave out a rope!" then by still another, of " Cut away the life buoy!" Then came the order, "Lower a boat!" Notwithstanding the rapidity of these commands, and the confusion occasioned by the anticipated loss of a man, they were rapidly obeyed. The ship was then hove to. But that time, however, the cause of all this excitement was at a considerable distance from the ship. It was a poor Swede, named Logholm, who, while engaged in lashing the larboard anchor stock, lost his hold and fell into the sea. He could not swim; but, some- how, he managed to keep afloat until the boat reached him, when he began to sink. The man at the bow ran his boat hook down, and caught the drowning man by his clothes: his clothes tearing, the man lost his hold, and the Swede once more sunk. Again the active bowsman ran the hook down, leaning far over the side; fortunately, he got hold of his shirt collar: dripping, and apparently lifeless, they drew him into the boat. He was soon under the surgeon's care, whose skill restored him to animation and to life. It was a narrow escape! Rising one morning, I heard the men talking about having been called to quarters during the night. They said a strange vessel hav- ing appeared, the drums beat to quarters, the guns were got ready, those great lanterns, which are placed on the main deck, called battle lanterns, were got out, and the officers began to muster the men at each division; when they discovered the supposed vessel of war to be nothing more than a large merchant ship. Upon this the hands were sent below. All this was news to me; I had slept 59
Page 60
60 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK through all the noise, confusion and bustle of the night, utterly igno- rant of the whole matter. It was fortunate for me that the real character of the strange ship was discovered before my name was called, otherwise the morning would have found me at the gratings under punishment. Never was boy happier than myself, when made acquainted with my hair-breadth escape from the lash. We had now reached the island of Madeira, occupied by the Portuguese, and producing fine oranges, grapes and wine. It is some sixty miles in length, about forty in breadth; the climate is hot, but salubrious; its harbor, or rather roadstead, is by no means commodious or safe—so that our stay was short. Here, the Portu- guese lad who had supplied my place as servant to the surgeon, was sent on shore, for Attempting a crime unfit to be mentioned in these pages, but quite common among the Spaniards and Portuguese. My old master made an effort to obtain me again, but did not suc- ceed, Sailing from Madeira, we next made St. Michael's. At this pace we had an increase to our crew, in the person of a fine, plump boy—born to the wife of one of our men. The captain christened the new comer, Michael, naming him after the island. This birth was followed by another. Whether the captain did not like the idea of such interesting episodes in sea life, or whether any other motive inspired him, I cannot tell; but when, shortly after, we re- turned to Lisbon, he ordered all the women home to England, by a ship just returning thither. Before this, however, one of our little Tritons had died, and found a grave under the billows, leaving its disconsolate mother in a state little short of distraction, A man of war is no place for a woman. Short cruises are very popular with man-of-war's men. On many accounts they love being in harbor; on others they prefer be- ing at sea. In harbor they have to work all day, but in return for this they have the whole night for sleep. At sea, the whole time is 60
Page 61
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 61 divided into five watches of four hours each, and two shorter ones, called dog watches, of two hours each, or from four to six and from six to eight, P. M. The design of these dog watches is to alternate the time, so that each watch may have a fair proportion of every night below. While at our station this time, our old friend, Bob Hammond, met with some little difficulty, which we will here make matter of record. . He was below, and one of his messmates did something that vexed him exceedingly. Now Bob was not a man to bear vexa- tions tamely, where he had the power to resist them; so, lifting his huge fist, he struck at the offender; missing his real opponent, the blow fell upon another who stood near him. Bob was too much of a bully to offer any apology; he merely laughed, and remarked that he had " killed two birds with one stone." Whether the bird, who, in Bob's figurative language, was killed, did not like being called a bird, or whether he conceived a strong dis- like to being a mark for Bob to shoot at, is not for me to say; but he certainly disliked the one or the other, for the next morning he re- ported the matter to the officers, which complaint was considered a most unsailor-like act by the whole crew. Fighting was a punishable offence, so Bob was called up the next morning. The captain mentioned what was reported con- cerning him. He acknowledged it was all true, and without any signs of contrition said, "I only killed two birds with one stone." The angry captain ordered two dozen lashes to be laid on; it was done without extorting a sigh or a groan. He was then loosed from the grating, and questioned; but he merely replied, in a gruff tone, that "the man who reported him was a blackguard!" For this, he was seized up again and another dozen lashes inflicted; he bore them with the same dogged and imperturbable air. Finding it im- possible to extort any acknowledgment from the stubborn tar, the captain ordered him below. 61
Page 62
62 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK About the same time one of our crew, named Jack Sadler, a fine, noble-hearted seaman, growing weary of the service, deter- mined to desert. Dropping into the water, he began swimming towards the shore. It was not very dark, and he was discovered; the sentry was ordered to fire at him, which he did, but missed his prey. A boat was next lowered, which soon overtook and dragged him on board. The officer commanding the boat said, " Well, Mr. Sadler, you thought you had got away, did you?" "You are not so sure that you have me now," replied Sadler, as he sprung over the side of the boat. Nor would they have captured him, had not another ship's boat arrived to their assistance. The next day, he was seized up and received three dozen lashes, which, considering his offence, was a very light punishment. I sup- pose that his noble bearing, his lion-hearted courage, and his un- daunted manner, produced a favorable feeling in the captain's mind; especially as he afterwards became his favorite—a fancy man —as those men are called who win the favor of their superior officer. One of Sadler's failings was that too prevalent evil among sea- men, drunkenness. Soon after the above affair, he got drunk. Being seen by the captain, he was ordered to be put in irons. Sadler was Bob Hammond's messmate; this worthy, finding his comrade in trouble, made himself drunk, and purposely placed himself in the way of the officers, that he might be put in irons also, to keep his friend Sadler company. The plan succeeded. Bob had his wish, and the two fearless tars were soon ironed together. Nothing daunted, they began to sing, and through the whole night they kept up such a hallooing, shouting and singing as might have served for a whole company of idle roysterers. Being near the ward-room, they prevented the officers from sleeping nearly all night. As usual, after being in irons, they were brought up for pun- ishment the next morning. "Well, Mr. Sadler," said the captain, "vou were drunk, were you, last night?" 62
Page 63
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 63 "I was, sir," replied the offender. Had he been any other man, he would have been ordered to strip: as it was, the captain proceeded,— "Do you feel sorry for it, sir?" "I do, sir." "Will you try to keep sober if I forgive you?" continued Captain Carden. "I will try, sir." "Then, sir, I forgive you: " and no doubt he was glad to wit- ness that contrition in his favorite which made it consistent to for- give him. Having dismissed Sadler, he turned to Hammond: as- suming a sterner look and a harsher voice, he said, in a tone of irony, "Well, Mr. Hammond, you got drunk last night, did you, sir?" Bob shrugged up his shoulders, and removed his enormous quid into a convenient position for speaking, and then replied, " I can't say but that I had a horn of malt." The captain looked thunder at the stalwart man, as he an- swered, "A horn of malt, you rascal! what do you call a horn of malt?" "When I was in Bengal, Madras, and Batavia," said he, "I used to get some stuff called arrack—we used to call it a horn of malt; but this was some good rum." Bob's manner was so exquisitely ridiculous while delivering this harangue, that both officers and men broke out into an involuntary laugh. The captain looked confounded, but recovering himself, he said to Mr. Hope, the first lieutenant, " Put that rascal in irons; it is of no use to flog him." One of the peculiarities of Captain Carden was an ardent de- s~ 63
Page 64
64 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK sire to have a crew of picked, first-rate men. The shiftless, slovenly seaman was his abhorrence. Had he dared, he would gladly have given all such their discharge; as it was, he never attempted their recovery, by offering a reward for their detection, if they ran away; while he spared no pains to catch an able, active, valuable man like Sadler. He even gave these drones opportunity to escape, by sending them on shore at Lisbon, to cut stuff to make brooms for sweeping the deck. The men sent out on these expeditions were nicknamed "broomers." Now, although Bob Hammond was as expert a sailor as any man in the ship, yet his unconquerable au- dacity made the captain fear his influence, and wish to get rid of him; hence, a few days after this drunken spree, Bob was called on deck to go with the broomers. "You may go, Mr. Hammond," said the captain, eyeing him in a very expressive manner, "with these fellows to cut broom." Bob understood the hint perfectly, and replied, " Aye, aye, sir, and I will cut a long handle to it." I scarcely need remark that the broomers returned without Bob. Whether he remained on shore to cut the long handle, or for some other purpose, he never informed us: certain it is, however, that the presence of Bob Hammond never darkened the decks of the Macedonian again. About this time the prevailing topic of conversation among our men and officers was the probability of a war with America. The prevailing feeling through the whole fleet was that of confidence in our own success, and of contempt for the inferior naval force of our anticipated enemies. Every man, and especially the officers, pre- dicted, as his eye glanced proudly on the fine fleet which was an- chored off Lisbon, a speedy and successful issue to the approaching conflict. We now received orders to sail to Norfolk, Virginia, with de- spatches. The voyage was accomplished without any occurrence of note. We found ourselves on the American coast, with no very 64
Page 65
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 65 pleasant impressions. It was late in the fall, and the transition from the mild, soft climate of Spain and Portugal, to the bleak, sharp atmosphere of the coast of Virginia, was anything but de- lightful. The most disagreeable duty in the ship was that of holy-ston- ing the decks on cold, frosty mornings. Our movements were never more elastic than when at this really severe task. As usual, it gave occasion to a variety of forecastle yarns about cold stations. Among these was one which was attested by many witnesses, and there can be no doubt of its truth: A British frigate was once stationed in a cold climate. The first lieutenant was a complete tyrant, delighting in everything that caused the crew to suffer. Among other things, he took especial care to make the work of holy-stoning as painful as possible, by forcing them to continue at it much longer than was necessary. Al- though he had no watch on deck, he would contrive to be up in sea- son to annoy the men with his hated presence. One morning, the weather being unusually severe, the men sprang to their task with unwonted agility, and contrived to finish it before the appearance of their persecutor. To their vexation, however, just as they had completed their work, he bounced on deck, with a peremptory order to wash the decks all over a second time. The men dropped on their knees with the holy-stones, and prayed, as the tyrant went below, that he might never come on deck again alive. Whether God heard the cry of the oppressed crew, or whether it was the action of the ordinary natural laws, the reader must determine for himself; but when the lieutenant again appeared on deck, he was brought up " feet foremost," to be buried. He was taken sick that morning: his disease baffled the skill of the surgeon, and in a few days he was a corpse. The opinion that he died a monument of the divine displeasure against cruel, hard-hearted men of power, and of disregard for the miseries and tears of the op- pressed poor, is at least worthy of serious consideration. 65
Page 66
66 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK Soon after we had descried land, an American pilot came on board to pilot us into Hampton Roads. The sound of our own familiar tongue from a stranger, was very agreeable to men who had been accustomed to hear the semi-barbarous lingo of the Portu- guese, and a thrill of home remembrances shot through our hearts, as, stepping on deck, the pilot exclaimed, " It is very cold!" While at anchor in Hampton Roads, we fared well. Boats were alongside every day with plenty of beef and pork, which was declared, by universal consent, to be infinitely superior to what we obtained from Portugal. Our men said that the Yankee pork would swell in the pot, which they very sagely accounted for on the supposition that the pigs were killed at the full of the moon. But I suppose that Virginia corn had more to do in this matter than lunar influences; though our men most doggedly maintained the contrary and more mystical opinion. The principal draw-back on the enjoyment of our stay at Nor- folk, was the denial of liberty to go on shore. The strictest care was taken to prevent all communication with the shore, either per- sonally or by letter. The reason of this prohibition was a fear lest we should desert. Many of our crew were Americans: some of these were pressed men; others were much dissatisfied with the se- verity, not to say cruelty, of our discipline; so that a multitude of the crew were ready to give " leg bail," as they termed it, could they have planted their feet on American soil. Hence our liberty was restrained. Our officers never enjoyed better cheer than during our stay at this port. Besides feasting among themselves on the fine fat beef, geese and turkeys, which came alongside in abundance, they ex- changed visits with Commodore Decatur and his officers, of the frig- ate United States, then lying at Norfolk. These visits were sea- sons of much wassail and feasting. I remember overhearing Com- modore Decatur and the captain of the Macedonian joking about 66
Page 67
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 67 taking each other's ship, in case of a war; and some of the crew said that a bet of a beaver hat passed between them on the issue of such a conflict. They probably little thought that this joking over a wine-cup, would afterwards be cracked in earnest, in a scene of blood and carnage. It was at this port that the difficulty between the British ship Leopard and the American frigate Chesapeake took place. Sev- eral American seamen, having escaped from the former, took refuge on board the latter. The captain of the Leopard demanded their restoration; the captain of the Chesapeake refused submission to the demand. The Leopard fired into the frigate, which, being of in- ferior force, struck to her opponent. As it was a time of peace, the Chesapeake was not kept as a prize; the claimed men were taken from her, and she was restored. This was among the circumstances which led to the war of 1812. The despatches delivered, and the object of the voyage accom- plished, we once more put to sea; having first laid in a liberal store of our favorite beef, together with a quantity of Virginia beans, called Calavances, which were in high favor with our men. To those of our crew who were Americans, this was rather an unpleas- ant event. Like the fabled Tantalus, they had the cup at their mouths, but it receded before they could taste its contents. They had been at the threshold of " home, sweet home," but had not been permitted to step within its doors. Some of them felt this very keenly, especially a boy, who belonged to New York, named Jesse Lloyd. In truth, it was a hard lot. A quick winter passage brought us to Lisbon, where the arrival of the English mail-bag, and orders to proceed to England with a convoy of merchantmen, put us all into a tolerably good humor. The arrival of the mail-bag is a season of peculiar interest on board a man of war. It calls the finer feelings of human nature into exercise. It awakens conjugal, fraternal, and filial affection 67
Page 68
68 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK in almost every breast. The men crowd around, as the letters are distributed, and he was pronounced a happy fellow whose name was read off by the distributor; while those who had none, to hide their disappointment, would jocularly offer to buy those belonging to their more fortunate messmates. During the two years of our absence I had received several let- ters from my mother, which afforded me much satisfaction. To these I had faithfully replied. I now experienced the advantage of the primary education I had received when a boy. Many of my shipmates could neither read nor write, and were, in consequence either altogether deprived of the privilege of intercourse with their friends, or were dependent on the kindness of others, to read and write for them. For these I acted as a sort of scribe. I also so- laced many weary hours by reading such works as could be obtained from the officers; and sometimes I perused the Bible and prayer book which my mother so wisely placed in my chest, on the eve of my departure. The pack of cards, which so inappropriately ac- companied them, I had loaned to one of the officers, who took the liberty to keep them. This was, perhaps, more fortunate than otherwise, since their possession might have led to their use, and their use might have excited a propensity to gambling, which would have ended in my ruin. After remaining a very short time at Lisbon, we one morning fired a gun to give notice to our convoy to get under weigh. Imme- diately the harbor was alive with noise and activity. The song of the sailors weighing anchor, the creaking of pulleys, the flapping of the sails, the loud, gruff voices of the officers, and the splashing of the waters, created what was to us, now that we were "homeward bound," a sweet harmony of sounds. Amid all this animation, our own stately frigate spread her bellying sails to a light but favoring breeze; with colors flying, our band playing lively airs, and the cap- tain with his speaking trumpet urging the lagging merchant-ships to more activity, we passed gaily through the large fleet consigned 68
Page 69
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 69 to our care. In this gallant style we scudded past the straggling ruins of old Lisbon, which still bore marks of the earthquake that destroyed it. Very soon the merry fishermen, who abound in the Tagus, were far at our stern. Next, we glided past the tall granite pinnacles of towering mount Cintra; the high-lands passed from our vision like the scenes in a panorama, and in a few hours, instead of the companionship of the large flocks of gulls, which abound in this river, we were attended by only here and there one of these restless wanderers of the deep. We were fairly at sea, and, what was the more inspiring, we were enjoying the luxury of fond anticipation. Visions of many an old fire-side, of many a humble hearth-stone, poor, but precious, flitted across the visions of our crew that night. Hardships, severe discipline, were for the time forgotten in the dreams of hope. Would that I could say that everything in every mind was thus absorbed in pleasure! There were minds that writhed under what is never forgotten. Like the scar, that time may heal, but not remove, the flogged man forgets not that he has been degraded; the whip, when it scarred the flesh, went farther; it wounded the spirit; it struck the man; it begat a sense of degrada- tion he must carry with him to his grave. We had many such on board our frigate; their laugh sounded empty, and sometimes their look became suddenly vacant in the midst of hilarity. It was the whip entering the sOUl anew. But the most of our crew were, for the time, happy. They were homeward bound! S 69
Page 70
CHAPTER V AFTER running a few days before a fair wind, the delightful cry of "Land ho!" was heard from the mast-head; a cry always pleasant to the inhabitant of a ship, but most espe- cially so when the distant hills are those of his native land. Soon after the cry of the man aloft, the land became dimly visible from the deck, and our eyes glistened, as the bright, emerald fields of old England, in all the glory of their summer beauty, lay spread out before us. Ascending the British Channel, we soon made the spa- cious harbor of Plymouth, where we came to an anchor. One of our convoy, however, by some unskilful management, ran ashore at the mouth of the harbor, where she went to pieces. We found Plymouth to be a naval station of considerable im- portance, well fortified, possessing extensive barracks for the ac- commodation of the military, and having a magnificent dock-yard, abundantly supplied with the means of building and refitting the wooden walls. Nothing would have afforded me a higher gratification, than a trip to the pleasant fields and quiet hearth-sides of dear old Bladen. I longed to pour out my pent-up griefs into the bosom of my mother, and to find that sympathy which is sought in vain in the cold, unfeeling world. This privilege was, however, denied to all. No one could obtain either leave of absence or money, since a man of war is never "paid off" until just before she proceeds to sea. But, feeling heartily tired of the service, I wrote to my mother, re- questing her to endeavor to procure my discharge. This, with the promptitude of maternal affection, she pledged herself to do at the earliest possible opportunity. How undying is a mother's love! 70
Page 71
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 71 When a man of war is in port, it is usual to grant the crew oc- casional liberty to go on shore. These indulgences are almost in- variably abused for purposes of riot, drunkenness and debauchery; rarely does it happen,, but that these shore sprees end in bringing "poor Jack " into difficulty of some sort; for, once on shore, he is like an uncaged bird, as gay and quite as thoughtless. He will then follow out the dictates of passions and appetites, let them lead him whither they may. Still, there are exceptions; there are a few who spend their time more rationally. Were the principles of modern temperance fully triumphant among sailors, they would all do so. I resolved not to abuse my liberty as I saw others doing; so when, one fine Sabbath morning, I had obtained leave from our surly first lieutenant, I chose the company of a brother to a mess- mate, named Rowe, who lived at Plymouth. At the request of my messmate, I called to see him. He received me very kindly, and took me in company with his children into the fields, where the merry notes of the numerous birds, the rich perfume of the bloom- ing trees, the tall, green hedges, and the modest primroses, cowslips and violets, which adorned the banks on the road-side, filled me with inexpressible delight. True, this was not the proper manner of spending a Sabbath day, but it was better than it would have been to follow the example of my shipmates generally, who were carous- ing in the tap-rooms of the public houses. At sunset I went on board and walked aft to the lieutenant, to report myself. He appeared surprised to see me on board so early and so perfectly sober, and jocosely asked me why I did not get drunk and be like a sailor. Merely smiling, I retired to my berth, thinking it was very queer for an officer to laugh at a boy for doing right, and feeling happy within myself because I had escaped temptation. By and by, three other boys, who had been ashore, returned, in a state which a sailor would call "three sheets in the wind." They 71
Page 72
72 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK blustered, boasted of the high time they had enjoyed, and roundly laughed at me for being so unlike a man-of-war's-man; while they felt as big as any man on board. The next morning, however, they looked rather chop-fallen, when the captain, who had accidentally seen their drunken follies on shore, ordered them to be flogged, and forbade their masters to send them ashore while we remained at Plymouth. Now, then, it was pretty evident who had the best cruise; the joke was on the other side; for while their drunken be- havior cost them a terrible whipping and a loss of liberty, my tem- perance gained me the real approbation of my officers, and more liberty than ever, since after that day I had to go on shore to do er- rands for their masters, as well as for my own. The young sailor may learn from this fact the benefit of temperance, and the folly of getting drunk, for the sake of being called a fine fellow. My frequent visits to the shore gave me many opportunities to run away; while my dislike of everything about the Macedonian inspired me with the disposition to improve them. Against this measure my judgment wisely remonstrated, and, happily for my well being, succeeded. Such an attempt would inevitably have been followed by my recovery, since a handsome bounty was paid for the delivery of every runaway. There are always a sufficient inumber to be found who will engage in pursuit for the sake of money—such men as the Canadian landlord, described by Rev. Wm. Lighton, in his interesting narrative,8 a work with which, no doubt, most of my readers are acquainted, since it has enjoyed an immense circulation. Endurance, therefore, was the only rational purpose I could form. Perhaps the hope of a speedy discharge, through my mother's * Narrative of the Life and Sufferings of William B. Lighton (an Eng- lishman), a private in the 60th Regiment—the Rifles.—Troy, N. Y., 1846. He enlisted at 16, in 1820. 72
Page 73
A. VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 73 efforts, tended somewhat to this result in my case; besides, my situ- ation had become somewhat more tolerable from the fact, that by dint of perseverance in a civil and respectful behavior, I had gained the good will both of the officers and crew. Yet, with this advan- tage, it was a miserable situation. There are few worse places than a man of war, for the favor- able development of the moral character in a boy. Profanity, in its most revolting aspect; licentiousness, in its most shameful and beastly garb; vice, in the worst of its Proteus-like shapes, abound there. While scarcely a moral restraint is thrown round the victim, the meshes of temptation are spread about his path in every direc- tion. Bad as things are at sea, they are worse in port. There, boat-loads of denled and defiling women are permitted to come alongside; the men, looking over the side, select whoever best pleases his lustful fancy, and by paying her fare, he is allowed to take and keep her on board as his paramour, until the ship is once more or- dered to sea. Many of these lost, unfortunate creatures are in the springtime of life, some of them are not without pretensions to beauty. The ports of Plymouth and Portsmouth are crowded with these fallen beings. How can a boy be expected to escape pollu- tion, surrounded by such works of darkness? Yet, some parents send their children to sea because they are ungovernable ashore! Better send them to the house of correction. There is one aspect in which life at sea and life in port mate- rially differ. At sea, a sense of danger, an idea of insecurity, is ever present to the mind; in harbor, a sense of security lulls the sailor into indulgence. He feels perfectly safe. Yet, even in har- bor, danger sometimes visits the fated ship, stealing upon her like the spirit of evil. This remark was fearfully illustrated in the loss of the Royal George, which sunk at Spithead, near Portsmouth, on the 29th of August, 1782. This splendid line of battle ship of one hundred and eight 73
Page 74
74 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK guns, had arrived at Spithead. Needing some repairs, she was "heeled down" or inclined on one side, to allow the workmen to work on her sides. Finding more needed to be done to the copper sheathing than was expected, the sailors were induced to heel her too much. While in this state, she was struck by a slight squall; the cannon rolled over to the depressed side; her ports were open, she filled with water, and sunk to the bottom! This dreadful catastrophe occurred about ten o'clock in the morning. The brave Admiral Kempenfeldt was writing in his cabin; most of the crew, together with some three hundred women, were between decks: these nearly all perished. Captain Waghorn, her commander, was saved; his son, one of her lieutenants, was lost. Those who were on the upper deck were picked up by the boats of the fleet, but nearly one thousand souls met with a sudden and un- timely end. The poet Cowper has celebrated this melancholy event in the following beautiful lines: Toll for the brave! The brave that are no more! All sunk beneath the wave, Fast by their native shore. Eight hundred of the brave, Whose courage well was tried, Had made the vessel heel, And laid her on her side. A land breeze shook the shrouds, And she was overset; Down went the Royal George, With all her crew complete. Toll for the brave— Brave Kempenfeldt is gone, His last sea fight is fought— His work of glory done. 74
Page 75
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 75 It was not in the battle; No tempest gave the shock; She sprang no fatal leak; She ran upon no rock. His sword was in its sheath; His fingers held the pen, When Kempenfeldt went down, With twice four hundred men. Weigh the vessel up, Once dreaded by our foes! And mingle with our cup The tear that England owes. Her timbers yet are sound, And she may float again, Full charged with England's thunder, And plough the distant main. But Kempenfeldt is gone, His victories are o'er; And he, and his eight hundred, Shall plough the wave no more. To return to my narrative: Our ship, having been at sea two years, needed overhauling. She was therefore taken into one of the splendid dry docks in the Plymouth dock-yard, while the crew were placed, for the time being, on board an old hulk. A week or two sufficed for this task, when we returned to our old quarters. She looked like a new ship, having been gaily painted within and with- out. We, too, soon got newly rigged; for orders had reached us from the Admiralty office to prepare for sea, and we were paid off. Most of the men laid out part of their money in getting new cloth- ing; some of it went to buy pictures, looking-glasses, crockery ware, 75
Page 76
76 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK &c., to ornament our berths, so that they bore some resemblance to a cabin. The women were ordered ashore, and we were once more ready for sea. The practice of paying seamen at long intervals, is the source of many evils. Among these, is the opportunity given to pursers to practise extortion on the men—an opportunity they are not slow in improving. The spendthrift habits of most sailors leave them with a barely sufficient quantity of clothing, for present purposes, when they ship. If the cruise is long, they are, consequently, obliged to draw from the purser. This gentleman is ever ready to supply them, but at ruinous prices. Poor articles with high prices are to be found in his hands; these poor Jack must take of necessity, because he cannot get his wages until he is paid off. Hence, what with poor articles, high charges and false charges, the purser almost always has a claim which makes Jack's actual re- ceipts for two or three years' service, wofully small. Were he paid at stated periods, he could make his own purchases as he needed them. The sailor is aware of this evil, but he only shows his apprehension of it in his usually good-humored manner. If he sees a poor, ill- cut garment, he will laugh, and say it " looks like a purser's shirt on a handspike." These are small matters, but they go to make up the sum total of a seaman's life, and should therefore be remedied as far as possible. Our preparations all completed, the hoarse voice of the boat- swain rang through the ship, crying, "All hands up anchor, ahoy!" In a trice, the capstan bars were shipped, the fifer was at his sta- tion playing a lively tune, the boys were on the main deck holding on to the "nippers," ready to pass them to the men, who put them round the " messenger" and cable; then, amid the cries of " Walk round! heave away, my lads!" accompanied by the shrill music of the fife, the anchor rose from its bed, and was soon dangling under our bows. The sails were then shaken out, the ship brought before the wind, and we were once more on our way to sea. We were 76
Page 77
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 77 directed to cruise off the coast of France this time; where, as we were then at war with the French, we were likely to find active service. We first made the French port of Rochelle; from thence, we sailed to Brest, which was closely blockaded by a large British fleet, consisting of one three-decker, with several seventy-fours, be- sides frigates and small craft. We joined this fleet, and came to an anchor in Basque Roads, to assist in the blockade. Our first object was to bring a large French fleet, greatly superior to us in size and numbers, to an engagement. With all our manoeuvring, we could not succeed in enticing them from their snug berth in the har- bor of Brest, where they were safely moored, defended by a heavy fort, and by a chain crossing the harbor, to prevent the ingress of any force that might be bold enough to attempt to cut them out. Sometimes we sent a frigate or two as near their fort as they dared to venture, in order to entice them out; at other times, the whole fleet would get under weigh and stand out to sea; but without suc- cess. The Frenchmen were either afraid we had a larger arma- ment than was visible to them, or they had not forgotten the splen- did victories of Nelson at the Nile and Trafalgar. Whatever they thought, they kept their ships beyond the reach of our guns. Sometimes, however, their frigates would creep outside the forts, when we gave them chase, but seldom went beyond the exchange of a few harmless shots. This was what our men called "boy's play;" and they were heartily glad when we were ordered to return to Plymouth. After just looking into Plymouth harbor, our orders were countermanded, and we returned to the coast of France. Having accomplished about one half the distance, the man at the mast-head cried out, "Sail ho!" "Where away?" (what direction?) responded the officer of the deck. The man having replied, the officer again asked, " What does she look like?" 77
Page 78
78 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK "She looks small; I cannot tell, sir." In a few minutes the officer hailed again, by shouting, " Mast- head, there! what does she look like?" "She looks like a small sail-boat, sir." This was rather a novel announcement; for what could a small sail-boat do out on the wide ocean? But a few minutes convinced us that it was even so; for, from the deck, we could see a small boat, with only a man and a boy on board. They proved to be two French prisoners of war, who had escaped from an English prison, and, having stolen a small boat, were endeavoring to make this per- ilous voyage to their native home. Poor fellows! they looked sadly disappointed at finding themselves once more in British hands. They had already been in prison for some time; they were now doomed to go with us, in sight of their own sunny France, and then be torn away again, carried to England, and imprisoned until the close of the war. No wonder they looked sorrowful, when, after having hazarded life for home and liberty, they found both snatched from them in a moment, by their unlucky rencontre with our frig- ate. I am sure we should all have been glad to have missed them. But this is only one of the consequences of war. Having joined the blockading fleet again, we led the same sort of life as before: now at anchor, then giving chase; now standing in shore, and anon standing out to sea; firing, and being fired at, with- out once coming into action. Determined to accomplish some exploit or other, our captain ordered an attempt to be made at cutting out some of the French small craft that lay in shore. We were accustomed to send out our barges almost every night, in search of whatever prey they might capture. But on this occasion the preparations were more formidable than usual. The oars were muffled; the boat's crew in- creased, and every man was armed to the teeth. The cots were got 78
Page 79
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 79 ready on board, in case any of the adventurers should return wounded. Cots are used to sleep in by ward-room officers and cap- tains; midshipmen and sailors using hammocks. But a number of cots are always kept in a vessel of war, for the benefit of wounded men; they differ from a hammock, in being square at the bottom, and consequently more easy. The service on which the barge was sent being extremely dangerous, the cots were got ready to receive the wounded, should there be any; but notwithstanding these ex- pressive preparations, the brave fellows went off in as fine spirits as if they had been going on shore for a drunken spree. Such is the contempt of danger that prevails among sailors. We had no tidings of this adventure until morning, when I was startled by hearing three cheers from the watch on deck; these were answered by three more from a party that seemed approach- ing us. I ran on deck just as our men came alongside with their bloodless prize—a lugger, laden with French brandy, wine and Castile soap. They had made this capture without difficulty; for the crew of the lugger made their escape in a boat, on the first inti- mation of danger. As this was our first prize, we christened her the Young Macedonian. She was sent to the admiral; but what became of her, I never heard. Before sending her away, however, the officers, having a pe- culiar itching for some of the brandy, took the liberty of replenish- ing their empty bottles from the hold. This, with true aristocratic liberality, they kept to themselves, without offering the smallest portion to the crew. Some of them showed, by their conduct after- wards, that this brandy possessed considerable strength. We had no further opportunity to signalize either ourselves or our frigate by our heroism at Brest; for we were soon after ordered back to Plymouth, where, for a short time, we lay at our old anchorage ground. 79
Page 80
CHAPTER VI AT Plymouth we heard some vague rumors of a declaration of war against America. More than this, we could not learn, since the utmost care was taken to prevent our being fully informed. The reason of this secrecy was, probably, because we had several Americans in our crew, most of whom were pressed men, as before stated. These men, had they been certain that war had broken out, would have given themselves up as prisoners of war, and claimed exemption from that unjust service, which com- pelled them to act with the enemies of their country. This was a privilege which the magnanimity of our officers ought to have of- fered them. They had already perpetrated a grievous wrong upon them in impressing them; it was adding cruelty to injustice, to com- pel their service in a war against their own nation. But the diffi- culty with naval officers is, that they do not treat with a sailor as with a man. They know what is fitting between each other as officers; but they treat their crews on another principle; they are apt to look at them as pieces of living mechanism, born to serve, to obey their orders, and administer to their wishes without com- plaint. This is alike a bad morality and a bad philosophy. There is often more real manhood in the forecastle than in the ward-room; and until the common sailor is treated as a man, until every feeling of human nature is conceded to him in naval discipline—perfect, rational subordination will never be attained in ships of war, or in merchant vessels. It is needless to tell of the intellectual degra- dation of the mass of seamen. "A man's a man for a' that; " and it is this very system of discipline, this treating them as automatons, which keeps them degraded. When will human nature put more confidence in itself? 80
Page 81
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 81 Leaving Plymouth, we next anchored, for a brief space, at Torbay, a small port in the British Channel. We were ordered thence to convoy a huge East India merchant vessel, much larger than our frigate, and having five hundred troops on board, bound to the East Indies, with money to pay the troops stationed there. We set sail in a tremendous gale of wind. Both ships stopped two days at Madeira to take in wine and a few other articles. After leaving this island, we kept her company two days more; and then, according to orders, having wished her success, we left her to pur- sue her voyage, while we returned to finish our cruise. Though without any positive information, we now felt pretty certain that our government was at war with America. Among other things, our captain appeared more anxious than usual; he was on deck almost all the time; the "look-out " aloft was more rigidly observed; and every little while the cry of " Mast-head there!" ar-, rested our attention. It is customary in men of war to keep men at the fore and main mast-heads, whose duty it is to give notice of every new object that may appear. They are stationed on the royal yards, if they are up, but if not, on the top-gallant yards: at night a look-out is kept on the fore-yard only. Thus we passed several days; the captain running up and down, and constantly hailing the man at the mast-head: early in the morning he began his charge "to keep a good look-out," and continued to repeat it until night. Indeed, he seemed almost crazy with some pressing anxiety. The men felt there was something anticipated, of which they were ignorant; and had the captain heard all their remarks upon his conduct, he would not have felt very highly flattered. Still, everything went on as usual; the day was spent in the ordinary duties of man-of-war life, and the evening in telling stories of things most rare and wonderful; for your genu- ine old tar is an adept in spinning yarns, and some of them, in re- si
Page 82
82 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK spect to variety and length, might safely aspire to a place beside the great magician of the north, Sir Walter Scott, or any of those prolific heads that now bring forth such abundance of fiction to feed a greedy public, who read as eagerly as our men used to listen. To this yarn-spinning was added the most humorous singing, some- times dashed with a streak of the pathetic, which I assure my read- ers was most touching; especially one very plaintive melody, with a chorus beginning with, "Now if our ship should be cast away, It would be our lot to see old England no more," which made rather a melancholy impression on my boyish mind, and gave rise to a sort of presentiment that the Macedonian would never return home again; a presentiment which had its fulfilment in a manner totally unexpected to us all. The presence of a shark for several days, with its attendant pilot fish, tended to strengthen this prevalent idea. The Sabbath came, and it brought with it a stiff breeze. We usually made a sort of holiday of this sacred day. After breakfast it was common to muster the entire crew on the spar deck, dressed as the fancy of the captain might dictate; sometimes in blue jackets and white trousers, or blue jackets and blue trousers; at other times in blue jackets, scarlet vests, and blue or white trousers; with our bright anchor buttons glancing in the sun, and our black, glossy hats, ornamented with black ribbons, and with the name of our ship painted on them. After muster, we frequently had church service read by the captain; the rest of the day was devoted to idleness. But we were destined to spend the Sabbath, just introduced to the reader, in a very different manner. We had scarcely finished breakfast, before the man at the mast-head shouted, " Sail ho!" 82
Page 83
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 83 The captain rushed upon deck, exclaiming, "Mast-head there!" "Sir!" "Where away is the sail?" The precise answer to this question I do not recollect, but the captain proceeded to ask, "What does she look like?" "A square-rigged vessel, sir," was the reply of the look-out. After a few minutes, the captain shouted again, "Mast-head there!" "Sir!" "What does she look like?" "A large ship, sir, standing toward us!" By this time, most of the crew were on deck, eagerly straining their eyes to obtain a glimpse of the approaching ship, and mur- muring their opinions to each other on her probable character. Then came the voice of the captain, shouting, " Keep silence, fore and aft!" Silence being secured, he hailed the look-out, who, to his question of " What does she look like? " replied, " A large frig- ate, bearing down upon us, sir!" A whisper ran along the crew that the stranger ship was a Yankee frigate. The thought was confirmed by the command of "All hands clear the ship for action, ahoy!" The drum and fife beat to quarters; bulk-heads were knocked away; the guns were released from their confinement; the whole dread paraphernalia of battle was produced; and after the lapse of a few minutes of hurry and confusion, every man and boy was at his post, ready to do his best service for his country, except the band, who, claiming exemp- tion from the affray, safely stowed themselves away in the cable tier. We had only one sick man7 on the list, and he, at the cry of 7 James Holmes, boatswain. 83
Page 84
84 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK battle, hurried from his cot, feeble as he was, to take his post of danger. A few of the junior midshipmen were stationed below, on the berth deck, with orders, given in our hearing, to shoot any man who attempted to run from his quarters. Our men were all in good spirits; though they did not scruple to express the wish that the coming foe was a Frenchman rather than a Yankee. We had been told, by the Americans on board, that frigates in the American service carried more and heavier metal than ours. This, together with our consciousness of superi- ority over the French at sea, led us to a preference for a French an- tagonist. The Americans among our number felt quite disconcerted, at the necessity which compelled them to fight against their own coun- trymen. One of them, named John Card, as brave a seaman as ever trod a plank, ventured to present himself to the captain, as a prisoner, frankly declaring his objections to fight. That officer, very ungenerously, ordered him to his quarters, threatening to shoot him if he made the request again. Poor fellow! He obeyed the unjust command, and was killed by a shot from his own coun- trymen. This fact is more disgraceful to the captain of the Mace- donian, than even the loss of his ship. It was a gross and a palpa- ble violation of the rights of man. As the approaching ship showed American colors, all doubt of her character was at an end. "We must fight her," was the con- viction of every breast. Every possible arrangement that could in- sure success, was accordingly made. The guns were shotted; the matches lighted; for, although our guns were all furnished with first-rate locks, they were also provided with matches, attached by lanyards, in case the lock should miss fire. A lieutenant then passed through the ship, directing the marines and boarders, who were furnished with pikes, cutlasses, and pistols, how to proceed if it should be necessary to board the enemy. He was followed by 84
Page 85
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 85 the captain, who extorted the men to fidelity and courage, urging upon their consideration the well-known motto of the brave Nel- son, " England expects every man to do his duty." In addition to all these preparations on deck, some men were stationed in the tops with small-arms, whose duty it was to attend to trimming the sails, and to use their muskets, provided we came to close action. There were others also below, called sail trimmers, to assist in working the ship, should it be necessary to shift her position during the battle. My station was at the fifth gun on the main deck. It was my duty to supply my gun with powder, a boy being appointed to each gun in the ship on the side we engaged, for this purpose. A wool- len screen was placed before the entrance to the magazine, with a hole in it, through which the cartridges were passed to the boys; we received them there, and covering them with our jackets, hurried to our respective guns. These precautions are observed to prevent the powder taking fire before it reaches the gun. Thus we all stood, awaiting orders, in motionless suspense. At last we fired three guns from the larboard side of the main deck; this was followed by the command, "Cease firing; you are throw- ing away your shot!" Then came the order to "wear ship," and prepare to attack the enemy with our starboard guns. Soon after this I heard a fir- ing from some other quarter, which I at first supposed to be a dis- charge from our quarter deck guns; though it proved to be the roar of the enemy's cannon. A strange noise, such as I had never heard before, next ar- rested my attention; it sounded like the tearing of sails, just over our heads. This I soon ascertained to be the wind of the enemy's shot. The firing, after a few minutes' cessation, recommenced. The roaring of cannon could now be heard from all parts of our trembling ship, and, mingling as it did with that of our foes, it made a most hideous noise. By-and-by I heard the shot strike the 85
Page 86
86 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK sides of our ship; the whole scene grew indescribably confused and horrible; it was like some awfully tremendous thunder-storm, whose deafening roar is attended by incessant streaks of lightning, carry- ing death in every flash, and strewing the ground with the victims of its wrath: only, in our case, the scene was rendered more horri- ble than that, by the presence of torrents of blood which dyed our decks. Though the recital may be painful, yet, as it will reveal the horrors of war, and show at what a fearful price a victory is won or lost, I will present the reader with things as they met my eye during the progress of this dreadful fight. I was busily supply- ing my gun with powder, when I saw blood suddenly fly from the arm of a man stationed at our gun. I saw nothing strike him; the effect alone was visible; in an instant, the third lieutenant tied his handkerchief round the wounded arm, and sent the groaning wretch below to the surgeon. The cries of the wounded now rang through all parts of the ship. These were carried to the cockpit as fast as they fell, while those more fortunate men, who were killed outright, were imme- diately thrown overboard. As I was stationed but a short distance from the main hatchway, I could catch a glance at all who were carried below. A glance was all I could indulge in, for the boys belonging to the guns next to mine were wounded in the early part of the action, and I had to spring with all my might to keep three or four guns supplied with cartridges. I saw two of these lads fall nearly together. One of them was struck in the leg by a large shot; he had to suffer amputation above the wound. The other had a grape or canister shot sent through his ankle. A stout York- shireman lifted him In his arms, and hurried him to the cockpit. He had his foot cut off, and was thus made lame for life. Two of the boys stationed on the quarter deck were killed. They were both Portuguese. A man, who saw one of them killed, afterwards told me that his powder caught fire and burnt the flesh almost off his 86
Page 87
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 87 face. In this pitiable situation, the agonized boy lifted up both hands, as if imploring relief, when a passing shot instantly cut him in two. I was an eye-witness to a sight equally revolting. A man named Aldrich had one of his hands cut off by a shot, and almost at the same moment he received another shot, which tore open his bowels in a terrible manner. As he fell, two or three men caught him in their arms, and, as he could not live, threw him overboard. One of the officers in my division also fell in my sight. He was a noble-hearted fellow, named Nan Kivell.8 A grape or can- ister shot struck him near the heart: exclaiming, "Oh! my God!" he fell, and was carried below, where he shortly after died. Mr. Hope, our first lieutenant, was also slightly wounded by a grummet, or small iron ring, probably torn from a hammock clew by a shot. He went below, shouting to the men to fight on. Hav- ing had his wound dressed, he came up again, shouting to us at the top of his voice, and bidding us fight with all our might. There was not a man in the ship but would have rejoiced had he been in the place of our master's mate, the unfortunate Nan Kivell. The battle went on. Our men kept cheering with all their might. I cheered with them, though I confess I scarcely knew for what. Certainly there was nothing very inspiriting in the aspect of things where I was stationed. So terrible had been the work of destruc- tion round us, it was termed the slaughter-house. Not only had we had several boys and men killed or wounded, but several of the guns were disabled. The one I belonged to had a piece of the muzzle knocked out; and when the ship rolled, it struck a beam of the upper deck with such force as to become jammed and fixed in that posi- tion. A twenty-four pound shot had also passed through the 3 James, in his History of the British Navy, gives this name as Thomas James Nankivee. 87
Page 88
88 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK screen of the magazine, immediately over the orifice through which we passed our powder. The schoolmaster8 received a death wound. The brave boatswain, who came from the sick bay to the din of bat- tle, was fastening a stopper on a back-stay which had been shot away, when his head was smashed to pieces by a cannon-ball; an- other man, going to complete the unfinished task, was also struck down. Another of our midshipmen also received a severe wound. The unfortunate ward-room steward, who, the reader will recollect, attempted to cut his throat on a former occasion, was killed. A fellow named John, who, for some petty offence, had been sent on board as a punishment, was carried past me, wounded. I distinctly heard the large blood-drops fall pat, pat, pat, on the deck; his wounds were mortal. Even a poor goat, kept by the officers for her milk, did not escape the general carnage; her hind legs were shot off, and poor Nan was thrown overboard. Such was the terrible scene, amid which we kept on our shout- ing and firing. Our men fought like tigers. Some of them pulled off their jackets, others their jackets and vests; while some, still more determined, had taken off their shirts, and, with nothing but a handkerchief tied round the waistbands of their trousers, fought like heroes. Jack Sadler, whom the reader will recollect, was one of these. I also observed a boy, named Cooper, stationed at a gun some distance from the magazine. He came to and fro on the full run, and appeared to be as " merry as a cricket." The third lieu- tenant cheered him along, occasionally, by saying, " Well done, my boy, you are worth your weight in gold." I have often been asked what were my feelings during this fight. I felt pretty much as I suppose every one does at such a time. That men are without thought when they stand amid the dying and the dead, is too absurd an idea to be entertained a mo- ment. We all appeared cheerful, but I know that many a serious 8 Dennis Colwell. 88
Page 89
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 89 thought ran through my mind: still, what could we do but keep up a semblance, at least, of animation? To run from our quarters would have been certain death from the hands of our own officers; to give way to gloom, or to show fear, would do no good, and might brand us with the name of cowards, and ensure certain defeat. Our only true philosophy, therefore, was to make the best of our situ- ation, by fighting bravely and cheerfully. I thought a great deal, however, of the other world; every groan, every falling man, told me that the next instant I might be before the Judge of all the earth. For this, I felt unprepared; but being without any partic- ular knowledge of religious truth, I satisfied myself by repeating again and again the Lord's Prayer, and promising that if spared I would be more attentive to religious duties than ever before. This promise I had no doubt, at the time, of keeping; but I have learned since that it is easier to make promises amidst the roar of the bat- tle's thunder, or in the horrors of shipwreck, than to keep them when danger is absent, and safety smiles upon our path. While these thoughts secretly agitated my bosom, the din of battle continued. Grape and canister shot were pouring through our port-holes like leaden rain, carrying death in their trail. The large.shot came against the ship's side like iron hail, shaking her to the very keel, or passing through her timbers, and scattering ter- rific splinters, which did a more appalling work than even their own death-giving blows. The reader may form an idea of the effect of grape and canister, when he is told that grape shot is formed by seven or eight balls confined to an iron and tied in a cloth. These balls are scattered by the explosion of the powder. Canister shot is made by filling a powder canister with balls, each as large as two or three musket balls; these also scatter with direful effect when discharged. What then with splinters, cannon balls, grape and canister poured incessantly upon us, the reader may be assured that the work of death went on in a manner which must have been satis- factory even to the King of Terrors himself. 89
Page 90
90 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK Suddenly, the rattling of the iron hail ceased. We were or- dered to cease firing. A profound silence ensued, broken only by the stifled groans of the brave sufferers below. It was soon ascer- tained that the enemy had shot ahead to repair damages, for she was not so disabled but she could sail without difficulty; while we were so cut up that we lay utterly helpless. Our head braces were shot away; the fore and main top-masts were gone; the mizzen mast hung over the stern, having carried several men over in its fall: we were in the state of a complete wreck. A council was now held among the officers on the quarter deck. Our condition was perilous in the extreme: victory or escape was alike hopeless. Our ship was disabled; many of our men were killed, and many more wounded. The enemy would without doubt bear down upon us in a few moments, and, as she could now choose her own position, would without doubt rake us fore and aft. Any further resistance was therefore folly. So, in spite of the hot- brained lieutenant, Mr. Hope, who advised them not to strike, but to sink alongside, it was determined to strike our bunting.9 This was done by the hands of a brave fellow named Watson, whose sad- dened brow told how severely it pained his lion heart to do it. To me it was a pleasing sight, for I had seen fighting enough for one Sabbath; more than I wished to see again on a week day. His Britannic Majesty's frigate Macedonian was now the prize of the American frigate United States. Before detailing the subsequent occurrences in my history, 1 will present the curious reader with a copy of Captain Carden's let- 9 The colors of the Macedonian are preserved at the Naval Institute, Annap- olis, Md. A number of her cannon are placed on the green near the Commandant's quarters at the Brooklyn Navy Yard; and when she was broken up, many of her timbers were taken to City Island (now part of New York City), and used as the frame of a hotel still (1909) stand- ing there. 90
Page 91
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 91 ter to the government, describing this action. It will serve to show how he excused himself for his defeat, as well as throw some light on those parts of the contest which were invisible to me at my sta- tion. My mother presented me with this document, on my return to England. She had received it from Lord Churchill, and had carefully preserved it for twenty years. "Admiralty Office, Dec. 29, 1812. Copy of a letter from Captain John Surman Carden, late commander of His Majesty's ship the Macedonian, to John Wilson Croker, Esq., dated on board the Ameri- can ship United States, at sea, the 28th October, 1812:— "Sir: It is with the deepest regret, I have to acquaint you, for the information of my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, that His Majesty's late ship Macedo- nian was captured on the 25th instant, by the United States ship United States, Commodore Decatur com- mander. The detail is as follows: A short time after daylight, steering N. W. by W., with the wind from the southward, in latitude 29° N., and longitude 29° 30' W., in the execution of their Lordships' orders, a sail was seen on the lee beam, which I imme- diately stood for, and made her out to be a large frigate, under American colors. At nine o'clock I closed with her, and she commenced the action, which we returned; but from the enemy keeping two points off the wind, I was not enabled to get as close to her as I could have wished. After an hour's action, the enemy backed and came to the wind, and I was then enabled to bring her to close battle. In this situation I soon found the enemy's force too superior to expect success, unless some very fortunate chance occurred in our favor; and with this hope 91
Page 92
92 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK I continued the battle to two hours and ten minutes; when, having the mizzen mast shot away by the board, topmasts shot away by the caps, main yard shot in pieces, lower masts badly wounded, lower rigging all cut to pieces, a small proportion only of the fore-sail left to the fore-yard, all the guns on the quarter deck and forecastle disabled but two, and filled with wreck, two also on the main deck disabled, and several shot between wind and water, a very great proportion of the crew killed and wounded, and the enemy comparatively in good order, who had now shot ahead, and was about to place himself in a raking position, without our being enabled to return the fire, being a perfect wreck and unmanageable log; I deemed it prudent, though a painful extremity, to sur- render His Majesty's ship; nor was this dreadful alterna- tive resorted to till every hope of success was removed, even beyond the reach of chance; nor till, I trust their Lordships will be aware, every effort had been made against the enemy by myself, and my brave officers and men, nor should she have been surrendered whilst a man lived on board, had she been manageable. I am sorry to say our loss is very severe; I find by this day's muster, thirty-six killed, three of whom lingered a short time after the battle; thirty-six severely wounded, many of whom cannot recover, and thirty-two slightly wounded, who may all do well; total, one hundred and four. The truly noble and animating conduct of my officers, and the steady bravery of my crew, to the last mo- ment of the battle, must ever render them dear to their country. My first lieutenant, David Hope, was severely wounded in the head, towards the close of the battle, and taken be- low; but was soon again on deck, displaying that great- 92
Page 93
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 98 ness of mind and exertion, which, though it may be equalled, can never be excelled. The third lieutenant, John Bulford, was also wounded, but not obliged to quit his quarters; second lieutenant, Samuel Mottley, and he deserves my highest acknowledgments. The cool and steady conduct of Mr. Walker, the master, was very great during the battle, as also that of Lieutenants Wilson and Magill, of the marines. On being taken on board the enemy's ship, I ceased to wonder at the result of the battle. The United States is built with the scantling of a seventy-four gun-ship, mounting thirty long twenty-four pounders (English ship-guns) on her main deck, and twenty-two forty-two pounders, carronades, with two long twenty-four pounders, on her quarter deck and forecastle, howitzer guns in her tops, and a travelling carronade on her upper deck, with a complement of four hundred and seventy- eight picked men. The enemy has suffered much in masts, rigging, and hull, above and below water. Her loss in killed and wounded I am not aware of; but I know a lieutenant and six men have been thrown overboard. JNO. S. GARDEN. To J. W. CROKER, Esq., Admiralty." Lord Churchill sent the above letter, with a list of the killed and wounded annexed, to inform my mother that the name of her son was not among the number. The act shows how much he could sympathize with a mother's feelings.
Page 94
CHAPTER VII 1NOW went below, to see how matters appeared there. The first object I met was a man bearing a limb, which had just been detached from some suffering wretch. Pursuing my way to the ward-room, I necessarily passed through the steerage, which was strewed with the wounded: it was a sad spectacle, made more appalling by the groans and cries which rent the air. Some were groaning, others were swearing most bitterly, a few were praying, while those last arrived were begging most piteously to have their wounds dressed next. The surgeon and his mate were smeared with blood from head to foot: they looked more like butch- ers than doctors. Having so many patients, they had once shifted their quarters from the cockpit to the steerage; they now removed to the ward-room, and the long table, round which the officers had sat over many a merry feast, was soon covered with the bleeding forms of maimed and mutilated seamen.* * The official report, from James" History of the British Navy, of the Mace- donian's casualties was: David Hope, First Lieutenant, wounded, leg and head; John Bulford, Third Lieutenant, wounded; Henry Roebuck, Master's Mate, wounded; George Greenway, Midshipman, wounded; Francis Baker, "first-class volunteer," wounded. Of the crew, 36 killed and 68 wounded, of whom two seamen died of wounds, and two boys had each one leg amputated. Nine Marines also were wounded. Aboard the United States: Second Lieutenant John M. Funck, mortally wounded; one seaman mortally wounded; five seamen badly wounded. (Unless the five all died, Captain Carden's statement in his official despatch home, "I saw a lieutenant and six seamen thrown overboard," was un- founded.) 94
Page 95
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 95 While looking round the ward-room, I heard a noise above, occasioned by the arrival of the boats from the conquering frigate. Very soon a lieutenant, I think his name was Nicholson,10 came into the ward-room, and said to the busy surgeon, "How do you do, doctor?" "I have enough to do," replied he, shaking his head thought- fully; "you have made wretched work for us!" These officers were not strangers to each other, for the reader will recollect that the commanders and officers of these two frigates, had exchanged visits when we were lying at Norfolk, some months before. I now set to work to render all the aid in my power to the sufferers. Our carpenter, named Reed, had his leg cut off. I helped to carry him to the after ward-room; but he soon breathed out his life there, and then I assisted in throwing his mangled re- mains overboard. We got out the cots as fast as possible; for most of them were stretched out on the gory deck. One poor fellow who lay with a broken thigh, begged me to give him water. I gave him some. He looked unutterable gratitude, drank, and died. It was with exceeding difficulty I moved through the steer- age, it was so covered with mangled men, and so slippery with streams of blood. There was a poor boy there crying as if his heart would break. He had been servant to the bold boatswain, whose head was dashed to pieces. Poor boy! he felt that he had lost a friend. I tried to comfort him by reminding him that he ought to be thankful for having escaped death himself. Here, also, I met one of my messmates, who showed the ut- most joy at seeing me alive, for, he said, he had heard that I was killed. He was looking up his messmates, which he said was al- ways done by sailors. We found two of our mess wounded. One was the Swede, Logholm, who fell overboard, as mentioned in a former chapter, and was nearly lost. We held him while the sur- 10 John B. Nicholson. 95
Page 96
96 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK geon cut off his leg above the knee. The task was most painful to behold, the surgeon using his knife and saw on human flesh and bones, as freely as the butcher at the shambles does on the carcass of the beast! Our other messmate suffered still more than the Swede; he was sadly mutilated about the legs and thighs with splinters. Such scenes of suffering as I saw in that ward-room, I hope never to witness again. Could the civilized world behold them as they were, and as they often are, infinitely worse than, on that occasion, it seems to me they would forever put down the bar- barous practices of war, by universal consent. Most of our officers and men were taken on board the victor ship. I was left, with a few others, to take care of the wounded. My master, the sailing-master, was also among the officers, who continued in their ship. Most of the men who remained were unfit for any service, having broken into the spirit-room and made them- selves drunk; some of them broke into the purser's room and helped themselves to clothing; while others, by previous agreement, took possession of their dead messmates' property. For my own part I was content to help myself to a little of the officers' provisions, which did me more good than could be obtained from rum. What was worse than all, however, was the folly of the sailors in giving spirit to their wounded messmates, since it only served to aggra- vate their distress. Among the wounded, was a brave fellow named Wells. After the surgeon had amputated and dressed his arm, he walked about in fine spirits, as if he had received only a slight injury. Indeed, while under the operation, he manifested a similar heroism—ob- serving to the surgeon, "I have lost my arm in the service of my country; but I don't mind it, doctor, it's the fortune of war." Cheerful and gay as he was, he soon died. His companions gave him rum; he was attacked by fever and died. Thus his messmates actually killed him with kindness. X 96
Page 97
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 97 We had all sorts of dispositions and temperaments among our crew. To me it was a matter of great interest to watch their vari- ous manifestations. Some who had lost their messmates appeared to care nothing about it, while others were grieving with all the ten- derness of women. Of these, was the survivor of two seamen, who had formerly been soldiers in the same regiment; he bemoaned the loss of his comrade with expressions of profoundest grief. There were, also, two boatswain's mates, named Adams and Brown, who had been messmates for several years in the same ship. Brown was killed, or so wounded that he died soon after the battle. It was really a touching spectacle to see the rough, hardy features of the brave old sailor streaming with tears, as he picked out the dead body of his friend from among the wounded, and gently carried it to the ship's side, saying to the inanimate form he bore, "O Bill, we have sailed together in a number of ships, we have been in many gales and some battles, but this is the worst day I have seen! We must now parti" Here he dropped the body into the deep, and then, a fresh torrent of tears streaming over his weather- beaten face, he added, " I can do no more for you. Farewell! God be with you!" Here was an instance of genuine friendship, worth more than the heartless professions of thousands, who, in the fan- cied superiority of their elevated position in the social circle, will deign nothing but a silly sneer at this record of a sailor's grief. The circumstance was rather a singular one, that in both the contending frigates the second boatswain's mate bore the name of William Brown, and that they both were killed; yet such was the fact. The great number of the wounded kept our surgeon and his mate busily employed at their horrid work until late at night; and it was a long time before they had much leisure. I remember pass- ing round the ship the day after the battle. Coming to a ham- mock, I found some one in it apparently asleep. I spoke; he made no answer. I looked into the hammock; he was dead. My mess- 97
Page 98
98 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK mates coming up, we threw the corpse overboard; that was no time for useless ceremony. The man had probably crawled to his ham- mock the day before, and, not being perceived in the general dis- tress, bled to death! O War! who can reveal thy miseries! When the crew of the United States first boarded our frigate, to take possession of her as their prize, our men, heated with the fury of the battle, exasperated with the sight of their dead and wounded shipmates, and rendered furious by the rum they had ob- tained from the spirit-room, felt and exhibited some disposition to fight their captors. But after the confusion had subsided, and part of our men were snugly stowed away in the American ship, and the remainder found themselves kindly used in their own, the utmost good feeling began to prevail. We took hold and cleansed the ship, using hot vinegar to take out the scent of the blood that had dyed the white of our planks with crimson. We also took hold and aided in fitting our disabled frigate for her voyage. This be- ing accomplished, both ships sailed in company toward the Ameri- can coast. I soon felt myself perfectly at home with the American sea- men; so much so, that I chose to mess with them. My shipmates also participated in similar feelings in both ships. All idea that we had been trying to shoot out each other's brains so shortly be- fore, seemed forgotten. We eat together, drank together, joked, sung, laughed, told yarns; in short, a perfect union of ideas, feel- ings, and purposes, seemed to exist among all hands. A corresponding state of unanimity existed, I was told, among the officers. Commodore Decatur showed himself to be a gentle- man as well as a hero in his treatment of the officers of the Mace- donian. When Captain Carden offered his sword to the commo- dore, remarking, as he did so, "I am an undone man. I am the first British naval officer that has struck his flag to an American:" the noble commodore either refused to receive the sword, or imme-
Page 99
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 99 diately returned it, smiling as he said, "You are mistaken, sir; your Guerriere has been taken by us, and the flag of a frigate* was struck before yours." This somewhat revived the spirits of the old captain; but, no doubt, he still felt his soul stung with shame and mortification at the loss of his ship. Participating as he did in the haughty spirit of the British aristocracy, it was natural for him to feel galled and wounded to the quick, in the position of a conquered man. We were now making the best of our way to America. Not- withstanding the patched-up condition of the Macedonian,11 she was * The word "thus" should undoubtedly be placed before "the," so as to make the line read: "and thus the flag of a frigate," etc. The Guerriere was the first frigate captured, the Frolic (taken October 18) being a brig.—(£D.) n The first lieutenant of the United States, William H. Allen, took the Mace- donian to port. The list of the United States' officers and their subsequent records follows: Captain Stephen Decatur, who was killed by Captain Barron in the historic duel, 1820. Lieutenant John B. Nicholson, who appears afterwards in this narrative as commander of the Siren, 1815, but whose name does not thus appear on the navy records. He was captain of the United States in 1832, and died in 1846. This list has been compiled from various sources, but the Navy Department records show an additional midshipman, John J. McCaw, who resigned Feb. 23, 1818. Lieutenant William H. Allen, who became Commander of the Argus in 1813, and was mortally wounded in the action with the Pelican in the British Channel, August 14, 1813, and is buried at Plymouth, England. Lieutenant John M. Funck, mortally wounded, as before noted. Purser John B. Timberlake. Mr. Timberlake's wife, who was known in Washington as "Peggy " O'Neil, married after his death John H. Eaton, Secretary of War, 1829-1831, and became the cause of the celebrated "ladies' quarrel," as Calhoun termed it, which terminated in the disrup- tion of Jackson's Cabinet in 1831. 99
Page 100
100 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK far superior, in a sailing capacity, to her conqueror. The United States had always been a dull sailer, and had been christened by the name of the Old Wagon. Whenever a boat came alongside of our frigate, and the boatswain's mate was ordered to "pipe away" the boat's crew, he used to sound his shrill call on the whistle, and bawl out, "Away, Wagoners, away," instead of "away, United States men, away." This piece of pleasantry used to be rebuked by the officers, but in a manner that showed they enjoyed the joke. They usually replied, "Boatswain's mate, you rascal, pipe away United States men, not Wagoners. We have no wagoners on board of a ship." Still, in spite of rebuke, the joke went on, until it grew stale by repetition. One thing was made certain however by the sailing qualities of the Macedonian; which was, that if we had been disposed to escape from our foe before the action, we could have done so with all imaginable ease. This, however, would have justly exposed us to disgrace, while our capture did not. Midshipmen— Joseph Cassin, Jr., who died a Lieutenant in 1826. Philip F. Voorhees, who died a Captain in 1862. John P. Zantzinger, who appears on the Navy List as "dropped" in 1855, but who was purser of the Hornet in 1815, when she narrowly escaped capture by the British 74 Cornwall™. In that memorable stern-chase all the guns but one, the cables, boats and nearly everything else movable, were thrown overboard to lighten the vessel. From the Congressional records we find that in 1850—thirty-five years after—Congress passed an act allowing Mr. Zantzinger payment for what he had been obliged to sacrifice under these circumstances, when even the knives and forks were thrown overboard. Richard Delphy, who was killed in the Argus-Pelican encounter, August 14, 1813, and is buried at Plymouth, England. Dugomier Taylor, who died at sea, as a Lieutenant, October 5, 1819- Richard S. Heath, who became Lieutenant, and was killed June 2, 1817, in a duel with Midshipman J. L. Hopkins, at New York. Edward F. Howell, who was killed in the action between the President and the Endymion, January 15, 1815. .: .•. ;.: 100
Page 101
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 101 There was every reason why the United States should beat us. She was larger in size, heavier in metal, more numerous in men, and stronger built than the Macedonian. Another fact in her favor was, that our captain at first mistook her for the Essex, which carried short carronades, hence he engaged her at long shot at first; for, as we had the weather gage, we could take what position we pleased. But this manoeuvre only wasted our shot, and gave her the advantage, as she actually carried larger metal than we did. When we came to close action, the shot from the United States went through and through our ship, while ours struck her sides, and fell harmlessly into the water. This is to be accounted for both by the superiority of the metal and of the ship. Her guns were heavier and her sides thicker than ours. Some have said that her sides were stuffed with cork. Of this, however, I am not cer- tain. Her superiority, both in number of men and guns, may easily be seen by the following statistics. We carried forty-nine guns; long eighteen-pounders on the main deck, and thirty-two pound carronades on the quarter deck and forecastle. Our whole number of hands, including officers, men and boys, was three hun- dred. The United States carried four hundred and fifty men and H. Z. W. Harrington (Henry W., on navy records), resigned April 12, 1813. William Jameson, who died a Commodore April 6, 1873, his record surpass- ing even that of Sloat. He was doubtless the last survivor of the famous encounter of sixty-one years before. Archibald Hamilton, who became a Lieutenant and was killed in the action between the President and the Endymion, January 15, 1815. He was son of Paul Hamilton, then Secretary of the Navy. Lewis Hinchman (or Henchman). \ Benjamin S. Williams, V of whom no record is found. John N. Carr, ) John Stansbury, who was killed in Macdonough's victory on Lake Cham- plain, September 11, 1814. George C. Read, who died a Rear-Admiral in 1862. Walter Wooster, drowned June 1, 1813. (The Navy Department gives his name as "Winter.") 101
Page 102
102 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK fifty-four guns: long twenty-four pounders on the main deck, and forty-two pound carronades on the quarter deck and forecastle. So that in actual force she was immensely our superior. To these should be added the consideration that the men in the two ships fought under the influence of different motives. Many of our hands were in the service against their will; some of them were Americans, wrongfully impressed, and inwardly hoping for defeat: while nearly every man in our ship sympathized with the great principle for which the American nation so nobly contended in the war of 1812. What that was, I suppose all my readers un- derstand. The British, at war with France, had denied the Ameri- cans the right to trade thither. She had impressed American sea- men, and forcibly compelled their service in her navy; she had vio- lated the American flag by insolently searching their vessels for her runaway seamen. Free trade and sailors' rights, therefore, were the objects contended for by the Americans. With these ob- jects our men could but sympathize, whatever our officers might do. On the other hand, the crew of our opponent had all shipped John D. Sloat, who died a Rear-Admiral in 1867, having the wonderful record of forty-four years' active service, having entered the navy as a mid- shipman in 1800—served one year until discharged by the peace-estab- lishment. He re-entered as sailing-master 1812. In 1847 he secured possession of California just in time to forestall the British designs on the Pacific Coast, and was on the active list until 1855; retired 1861, but promoted until 1866—thus being on the navy list for fifty-seven years. Surgeon Samuel R. Trevett, Jr. (died 1822), when surgeon on the sloop-of- war Peacock. Surgeon's Mate Samuel Vernon, who died February 5, 1814. , Lieutenant of Marines William Anderson, who died a brevet Lieutenant- Colonel, in 1830. Second Lieutenant of Marines James L. Edwards, who resigned in 1813. The complement of the two vessels, as given by James, was: Macedonian, 262 men and 35 boys. United States, 477 men and 1 boy. 102
Page 103
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 103 voluntarily for the term of two years only; (most of our men were shipped for life.) They understood what they fought for; they were better used in the service. What wonder, then, that victory adorned the brows of the American commander? To have been defeated under such circumstances would have been a source of lasting infamy to any naval officer in the world. In the matter of fighting, I think there is but little difference in either nation. Place them in action under equal circumstances and motives, and who could predict which would be victor? Unite them together, they would subject the whole world. So close are the alliances of blood, however, between England and America, that it is to be earnestly desired, they may never meet in mortal strife again. If either will fight, which is to be deprecated as a crime and a folly, let it choose an enemy less connected by the sacred ties of consan- guinity. Our voyage was one of considerable excitement. The seas swarmed with British cruisers, and it was extremely doubtful whether the United States would elude their grasp, and reach the protection of an American port with her prize. I hoped most sin- cerely to avoid them, as did most of my old shipmates; in this we agreed with our captors, who wisely desired to dispose of one con- quest before they attempted another. Our former officers, of course, were anxious for the sight of a British flag. But we saw none, and, after a prosperous voyage from the scene of conflict, we heard the welcome cry of "Land ho!" The United States en- tered the port of New London; but, owing to a sudden shift of the wind, the Macedonian had to lay off and on for several hours. Had an English cruiser found us in this situation, we should have been easily recovered; and, as it was extremely probable we .should fall in with one, I felt quite uneasy, until, after several hours, we made out to run into the pretty harbor of Newport. We fired a salute as we came to an anchor, which was promptly returned by the peo- ple on shore. With a few exceptions, our wounded men were in a fair way 103
Page 104
104 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK to recover by the time we reached Newport. The last of them, who died of their wounds on board, was buried just before we got in. His name was Thomas Whittaker; he had been badly wounded by splinters. While he lived, he endured excessive torture. At last his sufferings rendered him crazy, in which sad state he died. He was sewed up in his hammock, by his messmates, and carried on a grating to the larboard bow port. There Mr. Archer, a mid- shipman of the Macedonian, read the beautiful burial service of the church of England. When he came to that most touching passage, "we commit the body of our brother to the deep," the grating was elevated, and, amid the most profound silence, the body fell heavily into the waters. As it dropped into the deep, a sigh escaped from many a friendly bosom, and an air of passing melancholy shrouded many a face with sadness. Old recollections were busy there, call- ing up the losses of the battle; but it was only momentary. The men brushed away their tears, muttered " It's no use to fret," and things once more wore their wonted aspect. At Newport our wounded were carried on shore. Our former officers also left us here. When my master, Mr. Walker, took his leave of me, he appeared deeply affected. Imprinting a kiss on my cheek, the tears started from his eyes, and he bade me adieu. I have not seen him since. While we lay here, a few days, several of our men contrived to run away. I should have done so too, but for the vigilance of the prize officers, who were ordered to keep us, that we might be ex- changed for those Americans who had fallen into British hands. After staying a short time in this port, we got under weigh and ran into New London. Here we fired a gun as a signal; it was answered by the United States, and both ships were presently sail- ing in company to New York. We found the Sound plentifully dotted with sloops, carrying passengers, for this was before the days of modern steamboating. After we reached Hurl-gate, ves- 104
Page 105
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 105 sels here gave us plenty of employment. Most of them honored us with three cheers, as they passed. Of course, the prize crew could do no less than cheer again, so that we passed our time amidst con- tinued cheering. While here, we were favored with abundant visitors, curious to see the captive frigate. Finding these visitors extremely inquisitive, and being tolerably good-natured myself, I found a profitable business in conducting them about the ship, de- scribing the action, and pointing out the places where particular individuals fell. For these services, I gained some money and more good will. The people who had been to see us, used to tell on shore how they had been on board of us, and how the English boy had conducted them over the ship, and told them the particu- lars of the fight. It soon became quite common for those who came to inquire " if I was the English boy that was taken in her." This civility on my part was not without a motive; it was productive of profit, and I wanted money to aid me whenever I got clear, which I was fully determined to do, the first opportunity. To this step I was encouraged by our pilot, who brought us from New London, Mr. Tinker. He promised to take me as his apprentice, if I ran away. Also a gentleman who visited us told me to call at his house in Pearl street, and he would give me a din- ner. Many others advised me to get away if possible. But I was so closely watched that my mind was haunted with fear, lest, after all, I should be sent back to England in the Cartel, which was ex- pected every day for the release of the prisoners. To fail in the attempt, exposed me to the danger of being reported to the officer who might come for us, and thus I was liable to be flogged when- ever I arrived in a British port. Great caution was therefore nec- essary in making the effort; since it was better not to try at all, than to fail of success. Christmas was now drawing near. The day before Christmas day, the Americans contrived to get well supplied with wine from a barrel they found below. As they had no funds, I bought my 105
Page 106
106 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK messmates some apples and a turkey, so that on the morrow they were quite taken up with feasting. We also had a great many visitors that day; many of them were ladies, and the officers got a chair out, which Captain Carden had rigged up, to lift ladies on board. It was made from an old hogshead, in the following man- ner. One head was knocked out and the barrel scooped out in front; a seat was then inserted, with a flag thrown over the whole; so that when it was lowered into a boat alongside, the lady had but to step in and throw the flag round her feet; in a trice, the chair was whipt upon deck by the halyards, when the lady could step out with perfect ease. This contrivance afforded a great deal of amusement, and kept the officers busily occupied in waiting upon their lady visitors. Now then, thought I, is my time for escape, or not at all. I had already made a friend of the American boat- swain, Mr. Dawson, who promised to carry my clothes to New York, if I got clear. So, looking over the ship's side, I saw a small colored boy in a boat. "Can you tell me," said I, hailing him, "where I can get some geese and turkeys on shore for our officers?" "I guess you can at some of the houses," responded the lad. "Well, then," I continued, "will you set me ashore? I want to get some for our officers." To this he replied, "Yes, if you will go and ask my master, who is on board your ship." This was a damper on my young hopes, since it was not likely that his master would give permission. I went below, somewhat disconcerted. There I met a boy named James Day, two years younger than myself. I told him I was going to run away, and urged him to go with me. He declined at first, saying, " I have no money to pay my expenses." "But I have money," returned I, "and as long as I have a shilling, you shall have half of it." 106
Page 107
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 107 "Besides," continued he, "I am afraid we cannot get away without being caught, and so get a thorough flogging." "Never mind that," said I; "I have contrived that business. The boat's waiting to set us ashore. Come along, Jim; don't be frightened; 'Nothing venture, nothing have,' you know. Come, come, here's the boat alongside." At length he consented; we re- turned to the ship's side, and told the boy his master was willing, provided he would make haste. We jumped into the boat, and were soon hurrying towards the shore, full of the hope of freedom. Never did my heart misgive me as it did when we were on our way to the shore; the voice of the boy's master came echoing along the waves. "Where are you going with that boat?" he shouted. Recovering myself, I persuaded the boy he was only bidding him to make haste. So the lad replied, " I am going to get some geese, sir!" and pulled on. A few minutes more, and, to my unspeak- able delight, I stood on American soil. Giving the boy a half dol- lar, we pushed on for New York, some ten miles distant. For this act of running away, I have never blamed myself; for the means by which it was effected, I have frequently done so. As the reader has seen, it was done at the expense of truth. I told sev- eral deliberate lies to the deceived boy in the boat. This is inex- cusable, and the only palliation that can be offered is, my want of religious instruction. I was not then a Christian. Still, the act of lying was an offence before God, and no man should purchase his liberty at the price of a lie. He who saves his life at the cost of offending God, pays dearly for the purchase. I am thankful I have since learned this lesson, at the foot of the cross of Jesus Christ. Not having our "land legs" on, we soon became excessively fatigued. When within two or three miles of the city, we con- cluded to stop all night at a tavern on the road. The inmates looked somewhat surprised to see two sailor lads 107
Page 108
108 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK inquiring for lodgings; so I at once told them we were runaways from the captured frigate. This made them our friends! the even- ing passed quite pleasantly; we relating the particulars of the bat- tle, and singing sea songs, and they listening with the utmost good humor. It seemed strange to us to find ourselves in a bed, after sleep- ing two years and a half in a hammock; nevertheless, we slept soundly, and to our inexpressible pleasure arose in the morning at our leisure, without being driven by the swearing boatswain at our heels. After breakfast, our generous host having refused to re- ceive any payment for his hospitality, we set out for the city of New York. Here I very fortunately alighted on one of the crew of the Macedonian, named Fitzgibbons, who informed me that most of our men had been landed at New London, and confined as pris- oners in an old barn; but that, not being over closely guarded, most of them had run away. He also introduced me to a sailors' board- ing-house, kept by a widow named Elms, near the old Fly Market in Front street. After spending a week in roving about the city, I heard a tre- mendous roaring of cannon in the harbor; it proceeded from the two frigates—which had dropped down from Hurl-gate and hauled up off the navy yard. What was more to my satisfaction, how- ever, was the news that the Cartel had arrived and carried off the British crew, or, rather, the fragment that remained of them. Had I delayed my escape three days longer, instead of spending the rest of my days in America and in the American service, I should have been chained to the obnoxious discipline of the British navy. The reader may be assured that the narrowness of my escape very greatly enhanced the value I set upon my freedom. I now ventured on board the Macedonian again to obtain my clothes. As I stepped on board, my mind misgave me, as Lieuten- 108
Page 109
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 109 ant Nicholson eyed me somewhat sternly; but I was reassured, when, kindly speaking, he informed me that the Cartel was gone, and I was safe. The sailors, also, congratulated me on my success in getting clear. The officers and crew were about to have a public dinner, and to visit the theatre in commemoration of their achievement. The sailors invited me to join them. To this I agreed. But overhaul- ing my clothes, and contriving how I should appear as well as any shipmates, who were all going to have new suits for the occasion, the bright anchor buttons, which shone on my best suit, presented an insuperable objection. For how could I appear among them with the badge of the British service on my coat? This dilemma was removed, however, by the skill of my landlady, the widow, who very carefully covered the buttons with blue cloth. There was great excitement in New York, when the brave tars of the victorious United States, walked in triumphant procession through the streets, in the presence of countless citizens. First, came Captain Carden's band, which had now shipped with Deca- tur; they were followed by the commodore and his officers, and these by the crew. At the City Hotel, all hands partook of a sumptuous dinner. This was followed by rather more than a usual amount of drinking, laughing, and talking; for as liquor was fur- nished in great abundance, the men could not resist the temptation to get drunk. As they left the room to go to the theatre, the poor plates on the sideboard proclaimed that " Jack was full three sheets in the wind." Almost every one, as he passed, gave them a crack, crying out as they fell, " Save the pieces; " thus illustrating the old proverb, " When rum is in, wit is out." The visit to the theatre passed off very much like the dinner, to wit, there was an abundance of shouting and cheering all the evening. After the close of the play, all hands scattered to see their friends, with orders to be on board next day. It was a week before they all returned. 109
Page 110
110 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK I was much struck with the appearance of Decatur that even- ing, as he sat in full uniform, his pleasant face flushed with the ex- citement of the occasion. He formed a striking contrast to the appearance he made when he visited our ship on the passage to New York. Then, he wore an old straw hat and a plain suit of clothes, which made him look more like a farmer than a naval commander. Never had men more friends than the crew of the United States at this period. Every boarding-house was open to them; every merchant would trust them; every one was willing to lend them money. What was it that gained them such public favor? "O their victory, of course," replies the reader. Stop; I will re- veal the secret. They had some prize money coming to them in a few weeks! That was the key that unlocked coffers; the warmth that melted the heart; the spirit that clothed the face with smiles. But for that—the prize money—poor Jack's credit and favor would, as usual, have been below par. Of course, this profusion, this universal popularity, almost turned the brains of some of those old tars; and at every oppor- tunity they would steal ashore for a spree. This brought them into trouble; it brought some of them to the gangway to be flogged. These floggings, however, were not very severe; they were rather a species of farce, enacted to preserve alive the forms of discipline. To avoid even these forms, the men were accustomed, after staying on a spree for several days, to visit the commodore's lady, with some piteous tale, begging her to intercede for them with their captain. This she did with almost constant success. The lucky tar would then go on board, telling his messmates that she was the sailor's friend, and using the usual saying in such cases, " Good luck to her —she has a soul to be saved." By this time, the late crew of the Macedonian, or those of them who had not gone home with the Cartel, were pretty well scattered over the country. One of the marines, named Luke Oil, went to Springfield, Mass., where he was employed as a file-cutter by Col- 110
Page 111
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 111 onel Lee, of the U. S. armory, at the rate of $75 per month. This prosperity, and an unfortunate marriage, led him into unsteady habits. He enlisted into the U. S. army; but growing sick of that, Colonel Lee procured his discharge. He afterwards enlisted again, which is the last I ever heard of Luke Oil. Two more of our marines, named Shipley and Taylor, also went to Springfield, and were employed by a Mr. Ames. Several of the others enlisted to serve in the fort at New Lon- don. One of these, whose name was Hawkins, was very highly esteemed for his excellence as a soldier, and was soon made ser- geant. But being an inveterate drunkard, he lost his office, and was degraded to the ranks. I have a characteristic anecdote to record of Sadler, the mess- mate of Bob Hammond. He enlisted in the American army, and was quartered at Hartford. He was so delighted with everything American, that he had grown to be an enthusiast in his encomiums on the government, as was exhibited one day in a somewhat pe- culiar way. The company to which he belonged was marched to church, one Sabbath, to hear (I think it was) priest Strong.* The text was, " Fear God and honor the king." This was too much for the newly-made American; and he put the congregation into a broad grin, by exclaiming aloud, "Don't let us hear about the King, but about Congress." The good people of Hartford would have pardoned this violation of Puritan propriety, if they had seen that brave fellow flogged, as I had, in the king's service. Our fifer, Charles Robinson, also enlisted in the same regi- ment. Perhaps some of the inhabitants of Hartford still remem- ber the soldier who amused them, during his stay, by playing on the bugle in the morning, from the top of the court-house. Robinson was perfect master of several instruments, especially the fife and the bugle. * This was the celebrated Dr. Nathan Strong (1748-1816), pastor of the First Congregational Church. Ill
Page 112
112 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK One of our boys, named William Madden, but better known in the Macedonian by the nick-name of " Billy O'Rook," from his practice of singing a song about that hero, enlisted in the army, and afterwards performed a signal service for his adopted country, at Sacket's Harbor. The Americans were in full retreat before the British troops, whose general,12 mounted on a superb charger, was at their head, shouting, " Huzza, my boys, the day is ours!" when young Madden rendered desperate by the certainty of being shot, if taken by his countrymen, deliberately aimed his rifle at the gen- eral. The shot struck him, he fell, and the British retreated. This brave lad lost his life in a subsequent action. I make this state- ment on the authority of Captain Badger, of Williamstown, Mass., confirmed by the testimony of several other persons. The reader has probably not forgotten the name of "Bloody Dick." He shipped on board the Hornet, sloop of war, and with that vessel very narrowly escaped falling into the hands of the English. I met him afterwards in New York. He told me how he trembled during the chase, knowing that if captured he should be hung for entering the American service; the British having given express orders for a strict look-out after our crew, that they might make examples of them. Besides the men just mentioned, others of our crew shipped and wandered in every direction; some in men of war, some in mer- chant vessels; some, fearful of the risk of being retaken, settled ashore. In short, it is impossible to trace them, so variously did they diverge from each other. I have been particular in mention- ing the history of a few, to gratify the parties, should they be liv- ing, and ever see my book; to confirm the reader in the truthfulness 12 This was Captain Grey, the adjutant-general, son of General Sir Charles Grey, of the Paoli massacre, September, 1777- Lossing (Field-Book War of 1812) says a drummer-boy cried, "Perhaps not yet," fired, and mor- tally wounded him. 112
Page 113
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 113 of my account, and to show some of the changes that followed in consequence of the victory of the United States over the Macedo- nian. It would be an interesting task, were it possible, to trace out all the results of that victory. Having detained the reader thus long in following the fate of my shipmates, I will resume the rec- ord of my own in the following chapter.

113
This page contains an image.
Page 114
CHAPTER VIII NEARLY two weeks had passed since I left the Macedo- nian. I and my companion were living upon the sums I had saved from the presents I received for my civilities to her numerous visitors. One day, as I was sauntering round the wharves, with my protege, I met a number of men-of-war's men. Stepping up to them, I perceived some of the old Macedonians. Of course, I hailed them. They were glad to see me. They had shipped on board the John Adams, guard ship, to which they were returning, having been enjoying a few days' liberty. Nothing would satisfy them, but for us to accompany them, and ship too. The midshipman who was with them, joined his entreaties to theirs, and we at last consented. To avoid being detected by the British, it was usual for our men to assume new names, and to hail from some American port, on shipping in an American vessel. My shipmates advised me to do the same. To this I had some objections, because I knew that changing my name would not make me a Yankee, while it might bring me into as awkward a position as it did an Irishman, who was found by an English cruiser on board an American vessel. After he had declared himself an American, the officer asked him, " What part of America did you come from?" "I used to belong to Philamadelph, but now I belong to Phil- ama York," replied Paddy, concealing his brogue as much as pos- sible. "Well," continued the officer, "can you say pease?" "Pase, sir," said Pat in true Irish style. The officer laughed and replied, " Mr. Pase, you will please to get into the boat." The poor Irishman was unsuccessful in playing the Yankee. 114
Page 115
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 115 Mentioning these fears, the midshipman said, "Call yourself William Harper, and hail from Philadelphia;" then turning to my companion, he added, " and call yourself James Wilson." "But," said I, "suppose the officer should ask any questions about Philadelphia, what should I do?" "O say you belong to Pine street." "But what if he asks me in what part of the city Pine street is situated, and what streets join it?" I answered, determined not to take a step in the dark if I could avoid it. The midshipman assured me that no such questions would be put; and, partly confiding and partly doubting, I resolved to make the experiment. Going on board, we were paraded before the offi- cers. Addressing me, one of them said, "Well, my boy, what is your name?" Mustering all the confidence I could command, I boldly an- swered, "William Harper, sir." "What part of America do you belong to, my boy?" "Philadelphia, sir." Here one of the officers smiled and remarked, "Ah, a towns- man." I trembled at hearing this, inwardly hoping that they would ask me no more questions. To my increased alarm, how- ever, he continued by asking, " What street in Philadelphia?" "Pine street, sir," said I, with the air of a man who feels him- self drawn toward a crisis he cannot escape. "What street joins Pine street, my lad?" asked my tor- mentor, with a knowing laugh. This was a poser; for further than this my instructions had not proceeded. However, I rallied the little confidence which re- mained, and said, " I don't remember, sir." 115
Page 116
116 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK The officer who had claimed me as a townsman, mentioned the next street, and my examiner went on by asking me what street joined the one mentioned by the officer. My colors, which had fallen to half-mast before, were now fairly struck. I had to surrender at discretion; but thinking to get off with the honors of war, I answered, "Gentlemen, it is so long since I was in Philadelphia, I have forgotten all about it." This point blank shot might have saved me, when, as if Provi- dence had determined to make my attempt at lying a total failure, one of them detected a glittering anchor button, which had con- trived to get rid of the covering placed over it by the fingers of the widow. Pointing it out to the others, he said, " Where did you get that English button? Did you pick it up in Philadelphia?" This was a shot which raked me fore and aft. I hauled down my colors and stood silent. The officers laughed heartily as one of them said, " Go below, my lad; you will make a pretty good Yan- kee." Through all this procedure the reader will perceive how per- fect was the disregard of truth among all parties, from my humble self to the officers, who were evidently rather pleased than other- wise at my attempt to pass for an American. Such an absence of moral rectitude is deplorable; it exhibits the unfitness of the parties for a mansion in His kingdom who is a God of truth: it lays the foundation for a mutual distrust and suspicion among men, and it leaves the offender to meet a fearful weight of responsibility in the day that shall try every man's work. I am thankful that the in- fluences of Christianity have fallen upon me since that time, in such abundance as to renew the spirit of my mind, and to fill me with abhorrence towards a violation of truth. The next morning I and my companion, who had escaped the ordeal that had proved too much for me, were summoned to go 116
Page 117
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 117 ashore to the rendezvous, that we might sign the ship's articles; or, in sailor phrase, get shipped. The officer of the watch shouted, "Boatswain's mate!" "Sir," answered a deep, gruff voice. "Pipe away the cutter," said the officer. "Aye, aye, sir." "Pass the word for James Wilson and William Harper." "Aye, aye, sir." Then followed a loud, shrill whistle, accompanied with the cry of, "Away, there, cutters, away!" We were also summoned to appear, and told to take our seats in the cutter, which by this time lay alongside, manned by her crew of six men, who sat each with his oar elevated in the air, waiting the word of command. We were soon seated, the lieutenant passed the words, "Let fall, and give way; " the oars fell into the water with admirable precision, and away we flew towards the shore. On our way to the rendezvous, I told my companion I should not ship in the John Adams, because so many of the Macedonians were already there, and it was impossible for us to pass for Ameri- cans. After some debate, we agreed together not to sign the arti- cles. On entering the house where the stars and stripes were fly- ing over the door, in token of its being the naval rendezvous, being anxious to have my friend Wilson pass the ordeal first, I affected to stumble, and then continued apparently engaged in fixing my shoe-string. "Well, my boy, what is your name? Just sign it here, will you? " said the officer. I took no notice, but remained very busy with my shoes. My shipmate replied in a low, bashful voice, "I don't like to ship, sir." "Very well, then go below," said the officer. At this juncture, feeling encouraged by his remark, I looked up; when, to my dis- 117
Page 118
118 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK comfiture, the officer, fixing his eyes on my retreating companion, observed, "That fellow will certainly be hung; " meaning that he would get caught by the English. Then, addressing me, he said, "Now, my lad, just sign your name." "Sir," said I, "I had better not ship alone. The other boy is only frightened; let me talk to him a little, and I can persuade him to ship with me." The shipping officer was too old a bird to be snared with such chaff as this. So, speaking rather sharply, he said, "Let him go, sir, and ship yourself; then he'll come back and join you; and "— he smiled as he spoke—" I will let you come ashore to persuade him, in a day or two." Still I pretended not to be convinced, and, after considerable debate, he let me off. Once more clear, I joined my young ship- mate, and we proceeded together to our boarding-house, congratu- lating ourselves on our fortunate escape, as it appeared to us. Two weeks of idleness had nearly exhausted the little stock of funds I had picked up on board my old ship, and it was becoming necessary for me to find some means or other of supporting myself; lor although the prim widow, with whom I boarded, was quite obliging while her bills were paid, it was altogether probable that she would become a little crusty if they should be neglected. At this crisis I fortunately met with an Englishman, who had visited our frigate at Hurl-gate. His name was Smith; he was a deserter from the British army; but was now settled in New York, as a boot-maker, in the employment of the firm of Benton & Co., Broad- way. He offered to take me and initiate me into the art, science and secrets of boot-making. Seeing no better opportunity before me, I accepted his kind offer, and at once entered on my novitiate. Behold me then, kind reader, transformed from the character of a runaway British sailor, into that of a quiet scholar, at the feet 118
Page 119
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 119 of St. Crispin, where in the matter of awls, wax-ends, lapstones and pegs, I soon became quite proficient. It is altogether probable that the rest of my life would have glided away in this still and quiet manner, but for a report that reached me, one Sabbath, as I was wasting its precious hours in wandering about among the shipping. This was, that there was a tall, stout seaman on board the United States, named George Tur- ner. From the name and description, I had no doubt that this was my cousin, who (the reader has not forgotten I presume) presented himself so unceremoniously to my aunt at Wanstead. This intelligence determined me to pay that frigate a visit. Going on board, I found her crew living in a complete Elysium of sensual enjoyment. They had recently received their prize money. Salt beef and pork were now rejected with disdain: Jack's messkids smoked with more savory viands, such as soft tack (bread) and but- ter, fried eggs, sausages, &c.; the whole well soaked with copious streams of rum and brandy. Those of the crew who had been in the Macedonian, hailed me with a hearty welcome; those for whom I had bought the turkey and apples at Christmas repaid me fourfold, so that when I went ashore that night my purse was as heavy as on the afternoon when I quitted my ship. My cousin did not recognise me at first; but by referring him to his visit to my old abode, he at last felt satisfied that I was his cousin. He then charged me not to mention our re- lationship, because he wished to pass for an American. Having given me this charge, he surveyed me from head to foot, and then said, " What are you doing in New York?" "I am learning to make boots and shoes." "I am sorry you are bound to a shoemaker," said he; " I don't like that business." 119
Page 120
120 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK "I am not bound to Mr. Smith, but can leave him when I please." "Well, then," he remarked thoughtfully, "I don't want you to go to sea again. Go to Salem, in the state of Massachusetts. I have a wife and children there, and shall be at home in a few weeks." This was a kind offer, and I at once agreed to take his advice. I had already grown somewhat weary with the confinement of my new mode of life, though, on the whole, considering my education, and the character of the influence exerted upon me in the Macedo- nian, I was a steady lad. Mr. Smith had left me pretty much to my own inclinations during the two months of my residence with him; yet my utmost misconduct had been the drinking of a little spirit, and the violation of the Sabbath by roaming about the docks and wharves. My Sabbath evenings I had usually spent in a more profitable manner, it being my habit to spend them at the Methodist chapel in Duane street. On returning to the house of my kind employer, I lost no time in communicating to him my change of purpose. He objected, and justly too, to be left just as the pains he had taken to instruct me were about to be requited by my usefulness. However, as I offered him five dollars, he consented to my departure. At that time there were no steamboats ploughing the waters of the Sound, so I engaged a steerage passage to Providence, for five dollars, on board a packet sloop, and, with a light heart and elastic step, carried my clothes-bag on board. Here, however, I met with a trifling loss. While ashore waiting for a fair wind, a negro, who had engaged a passage in the sloop, robbed my bag of several arti- cles of wearing apparel, and took French leave. In consideration of this mishap, the captain exacted only three dollars passage- money. From Providence a stage, chartered exclusively by a party 120
Page 121
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 121 of sailors, conveyed me to Boston; from whence I soon reached the house of my cousin in Salem. Mrs. Turner received me with great kindness; indeed, she pre- tended not to be surprised at my visit, assigning as a reason the very satisfactory fact that she had seen me with my bag on my shoulder in the grounds of a teacup! She was a believer in fortune-telling and dreams, having, for aught I know, received her convictions as an heirloom from her witch-burning* ancestors. At any rate she was strongly confirmed in her favorite theory by my timely arrival; verifying, as it did, to the very particular of the bag on the shoulder, the truth-telling tea-grounds. She gave me another proof, after I had been there a few weeks, of the truthfulness and verity of dreams, by calling me up one morning, with an injunction to make haste to the post-office, for she had dreamed of catching fish. Sure enough, if she caught no fish in her dreams, she caught a very fine one in the letter I brought to her, for it contained a one hundred dollar bill from her husband, with information that his ship was blockaded in the port of New London by Commodore Hardy. Accident or curiosity, I forget which, led me to attend the re- ligious services of the Baptists in Salem. They were enjoying a season of religious refreshing: several were baptized. The hymn beginning with the line— "Oh, how happy are they who their Saviour obey," was sung as the converts came out of the water, and made a strong impression on my mind. Had some devoted Christian made him- self acquainted with my feelings, and given me suitable advice, there is no doubt but that I should have been led to embrace the Lord Jesus Christ. How many divine impressions are destroyed, through lack of faithfulness in Christians! * Leech is not to be blamed for his belief in the burning of witches in New England—in 1909 a New York orator repeated the same hoary blunder. -(Ed.) 121
Page 122
122 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK Perhaps the great reason why these serious impressions were so transient, was because the company I kept was so unfavorable to their growth. Most of my time was spent about the shipping: among these were many privateers, the profanity of whose crews was such that it had passed into a proverb. It was usual to say to a gross swearer, "You swear like a privateer's-man." Religion could not flourish in an atmosphere tainted by their vices. Among my favorite pursuits was that of fishing. Sometimes I went with mixed parties of males and females; at others, with a few sailor companions. One of these excursions came very near costing rather more than it was worth. We had been out all night; towards morning we thought we would get a little sleep, and for this purpose laid ourselves down under the top-gallant forecastle. Luckily for us, we had an old sailor, named Lewis Deal, on board. He had been quartermaster on board the United States. Know- ing that the coast was strictly guarded by British cruisers, he kept awake. Just at dawn the bang of a single gun led him to call us, saying, " There, I told you to look out for Johnny Bull." Looking about us, we saw an English gun brig in chase after a Boston sloop. This was a sight that inspired us with a very sud- den and wonderful agility, since we had a decided repugnance to a free passage in the aforesaid brig to Halifax; especially as in my case it might have the rather unpleasant termination of an airing at the yard-arm; which, for very strong reasons I chose to avoid if possible. By dint of strong arms and quick movements, we succeeded in hauling in our anchor and getting under weigh, without attracting the Englishman's attention. Expecting a shot at our heels every moment, we sat breathlessly measuring our distance from the brig. Fortunately, we escaped notice, and reached Salem in safety. Shortly after this adventure, the good citizens of Salem were 182
Page 123
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 123 thrown into a high state of excitement by the noise of a heavy can- nonading. A general rush took place from all quarters towards the Neck. I followed with the rest. We found it to be occa- sioned by the engagement between the Chesapeake and Shannon, in compliance with a challenge, sent by the latter, which was ac- cepted by Captain Lawrence, of the former. The result is well known. After a short action, the Chesapeake struck to the Shan- non, and was carried away by the victors, in triumph, to Halifax. One reason for the defeat of the American frigate, may perhaps be found in the fact that her crew were newly shipped; some of them were volunteer landsmen, while none of them had what sailors call their sea-legs on. No ship is fit for action until she has been at sea at least a month. In this action the captain, first lieutenant, and several men, were killed. Mr. George Crowninshield sent a vessel to Halifax for the bodies of those gallant officers; they were interred in Salem with naval honors. My cousin, having now reached home, was desirous to have me devote myself to some business. He proposed that of a sailmaker; but by this time I had quite a desire to go to sea again. The Constitution, the Frolic sloop of war, and the gun brig Siren, were all shipping hands in Boston. My feelings inclined me towards old Ironsides; but my cousin, having sailed with Captain Parker,18 of the Siren, recommended that officer so strongly, that I was induced to join his ship, in company with the quartermaster and several of the former hands of the United States. My cousin also overruled my design of shipping in a false name; so that, in defi- ance of my fears, I suffered myself to be entered as Samuel Leech, on the books of the U. S. brig Siren, of sixteen guns. The pay- ment of three months' advance, with the sum I brought with me from New York, enabled me honorably to discharge my board bills 18 George Parker, formerly first lieutenant of the Constitution. 123
Page 124
124 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK at my cousin's, and to purchase a little clothing necessary to fit me for sea. I was then in the seventeenth year of my life. Once more in a man of war, my seriousness all vanished like mist before the sun. Alas, it was poor soil to nourish the seed of life! barren of everything that related to purity, religion, and im- mortality. My first impressions of the American service were very favor- able. The treatment in the Siren was more lenient and favorable than in the Macedonian. The captain and officers were kind, while there was a total exemption from that petty tyranny exercised by the upstart midshipmen in the British service. As a necessary ef- fect, our crew were as comfortable and as happy as men ever are in a man of war. While we lay in Boston harbor, Thanksgiving-day arrived. Some of our Salem men inquired if I was not going home to keep Thanksgiving, for they all supposed I belonged to Salem. What they meant by Thanksgiving, was a mystery to me, but, dissem- bling my ignorance, I obtained leave, determined to learn what it meant. The result of my visit was the idea that Thanksgiving was one in which the people crammed themselves with turkeys, geese, pumpkin-pies, &c.; for, certainly, that was the chief business of the day, so far as I could perceive. With too many people, I believe that this is the leading idea associated with the day even now. Our brig had before this taken in her guns, consisting of two long nine-pounders, twelve twenty-four pound carronades, and two forty-two pounders. Our crew was composed of some one hun- dred and twenty-five smart, active men. We were all supplied with stout leather caps, something like those used by firemen. These were crossed by two strips of iron, covered with bearskin, and were designed to defend the head, in boarding an enemy's ship, from the stroke of the cutlass. Strips of bearskin were likewise used to fasten them on, serving the purpose of false whiskers, and 124
Page 125
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 125 causing us to look as fierce as hungry wolves. We were also fre- quently exercised in the various evolutions of a sea-fight; first using our cannon, then seizing our cutlasses and boarding-spikes, and cut- ting to the right and left, as if in the act of boarding an enemy's ship. Thus we spent our time from early in the fall until after Christmas, when we received orders to hold ourselves in readiness for sea.

125
This page contains an image.
Page 126
CHAPTER IX A3 we lay waiting for our final orders, a report reached usl that a large English brig of war, called the Nimrod, lay in a cove somewhere near Boston bay. Upon this informa- tion, our officers planned a night expedition for the purpose of ef- fecting her capture. Our intended mode of attack was to run close alongside, pour a broadside upon her, and then, without further ceremony, board her, cutlass in hand. So we took in our powder, ground up our cutlasses, and towards night got under weigh. A change in the wind, however, defeated our designs, and we put into Salem harbor, with no other result than the freezing of a man's fin- gers, which happened while we were furling our sails. Thus ended our first warlike expedition in the Siren. Shortly after this affair, we received orders to start on a cruise to the coast of Africa, and, in company with the Grand Turk,14 a privateer, set sail from Salem. Passing the fort, we received the usual hail from the sentry, of "Brig ahoy! where are you bound to?" To this salutation the first lieutenant jocosely answered, "There, and back again, on a man of war's cruise." Such a reply would not have satisfied a British soldier; but we shot past the fort unmolested. After two days we parted company with the Grand Turk, and by the aid of a fair wind soon found ourselves in the Gulf Stream; where, instead of fearing frozen fingers, we could go bare- footed and feel quite comfortable. 14 The Grand Turk was a noted privateer, commanded at that time by either Captain Breed or Captain Green, and owned by the famous Salem mer- chant, William Gray. 126
Page 127
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 127 We now kept a sharp look-out at the mast-head, but met with nothing until we reached the Canary Islands, near which we saw a boat-load of Portuguese, who, coming alongside, talked in their native tongue with great noise and earnestness, but were no more intelligible to us than so many blackbirds. While off the African coast, our captain died. His wasted body was placed in a coffin, with shot to sink it. After the service had been read, the plank on whirh the coffin rested was elevated, and it slipped into the great deep. The yards were braced round, and we were under weigh again, when, to our surprise and grief, we saw the coffin floating on the waves. The reason was, the carpenter had bored holes in the top and bottom; he should have made them only in the top. After the funeral, the crew were called aft, and the first lieu- tenant, Mr. Nicholson,15 told us that it should be left to our deci- sion whether he should assume the command and continue the cruise, or return home. We gave him three hearty cheers, in token of our wish to continue the cruise. He was a noble-minded man, very kind and civil to his crew; and the opposite, in every respect, to the haughty, lordly captain with whom I first sailed in the Mace- donian. Seeing me one day with rather a poor hat on, he called me aft and presented me with one of his own, but little worn. "Good luck to him," said I, in sailor phrase, as I returned to my mess- mates; " he has a soul to be saved." We also lost two of our crew, who fell victims to the heat of the climate. One morning the cry of " Sail ho I " directed our attention to a strange sail, which had hove to, with her courses hauled up. At first, we took her for a British man-of-war brig. The hands were summoned to quarters, and the ship got ready for action. A nearer approach, however, convinced us that the supposed enemy, was no other than our old friend, the Grand Turk. She did not appear to 13 James B. Nicholson, the same who was on the United States. 127
Page 128
128 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK know us; for no sooner did she see that our craft was a brig of war, than, supposing us to belong to Johnny Bull, she crowded all her canvas, and made the best of her way off. Knowing what she was, we permitted her to escape without further alarm. The first land we made was Cape Mount. The natives came off to a considerable distance in their canoes, clothed in nothing but a piece of cloth fastened round the waist, and extending downward to the feet. As we approached the shore, we saw several fires burn- ing; this, we were told, in the broken English spoken by our sable visitors, was the signal for trade. We bought a quantity of oranges, limes, cocoanuts, tamarinds, plantains, yams and bananas. We likewise took in a quantity of cassava, a species of ground root, of which we made tolerable pudding and bread; also a few hogs and some water. We lay here several days looking out for any English vessels that might come thither for purposes of trade. Meanwhile, we began to experience the inconvenience of a hot climate. Our men were all covered with blotches or boils, probably occasioned by so sudden a transition from extreme cold to extreme heat. What was worse than this, was the want of a plentiful sup- ply of water. In the absence of this, we were placed on an allow- ance of two quarts per diem, to each man. This occasioned us much suffering; for, after mixing our Indian for puddings, our cassava for bread, and our whisky for grog, we had but little left to assuage our burning thirst. Some, in their distress, drank large quantities of sea water, which only increased their thirst and made them sick; others sought relief in chewing lead, tea-leaves, or anything which would create moisture. Never did we feel more delighted than when our boat's crew announced the discovery of a pool of fine clear water. We received it with greater satisfaction than ever prodigal did tidings of the death of some rich old relative, to whose well- laden purse he was undisputed heir. We could have joined in the 128
Page 129
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 129 most enthusiastic cold-water song ever sung by either hermit or Washingtonian.1* While cruising along the coast, we one night perceived a large ship lying at anchor near the shore. We could not decide whether she was a large merchantman or a man of war; so we approached her with the utmost caution. Our doubts were soon removed, for she suddenly loosed all her sails and made chase after us. By the help of their glasses, our officers ascertained her to be an English frigate. Of course, it was folly to engage her; so we made all the sail we could carry, beat to quarters, lighted our matches, and lay down at our guns, expecting to be prisoners of war before morn- ing. During the night we hung out false lights, and altered our course; this baffled our pursuer; in the morning she was no more to be seen. The next sail we made was not so formidable. She was an English vessel at anchor in the Senegal river. We approached her and hailed. Her officer returned an insolent reply, which so exas- perated our captain that he passed the word to fire into her, but re- called it almost immediately. The countermand was too late; for in a moment, everything being ready for action, we poured a whole broadside into our unfortunate foe. The current carried us away from the stranger. We attempted to beat up again, but our guns had roused the garrison in a fort which commanded the river; they began to blaze away at us in so expressive a manner, that we found it prudent to get a little beyond the reach of their shot, and pa- tiently wait for daylight. The next morning we saw our enemy hauled close in shore, un- der the protection of the fort, and filled with soldiers. At first, it was resolved to man the boats and cut her out; but this, after weighing the subject maturely, was pronounced to be too hazardous an experiment, and, notwithstanding our men begged to make the 18 The Washingtonian was a temperance society of the day. 129
Page 130
130 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK attempt, it was wisely abandoned. How many were killed by our hasty broadside, we never learned, but doubtless several poor fel- lows were hurried to a watery and unexpected grave, affording an- other illustration of the beauty of war. This affair our men humorously styled "the battle of Senegal." After visiting Cape Three Points, we shaped our course for St. Thomas. On our way, we lost a prize through a display of Yankee cunning in her commander. We had hoisted English col- ors; the officer in command of the stranger was pretty well versed in the secrets of false colors, and in return he ran up the American flag. The bait took: supposing her to be American, we showed the stars and stripes. This was all the merchantman desired. It told him what we were, and he made all possible sail for St. Thomas. We followed, crowding every stitch of canvas our brig could carry; we also got out our sweeps and swept her along, but in vain. The merchantman was the better sailer, and succeeded in reaching St. Thomas, which, being a neutral port, secured her safety. Her name was the Jane, of Liverpool. The next morning, another Liverpool merchantman got into the harbor, unseen by our look-out until she was under the protection of the laws of neutrality. Our next business was to watch the mouth of the harbor, in the hope of catching them as they left port. But they were too cau- tious to run into danger, especially as they were expecting a convoy for their protection, which might make us glad to trust more to our canvas than to our cannon. Shortly after this occurrence, we made another sail standing in towards St. Thomas. Hoisting English colors, our officers also donning the British uniform, we soon came near enough to hail her; for, not doubting that we were a British brig, the merchantman made no effort to escape us. Our captain hailed her, " Ship ahoy!" "Halloa!" "What ship is that?" ISO
Page 131
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 13 "The ship Barton." "Where do you belong?" "To Liverpool." "What is your cargo?" "Red-wood, palm oil and ivory." "Where are you bound to?" "To St. Thomas." Just at that moment our English flag was hauled down, and, to the inexpressible annoyance of the officers of the Barton, the stars and stripes supplied its place. "Haul down your colors!" continued Captain Nicholson. The old captain, who, up to this moment, had been enjoying a comfortable nap in his very comfortable cabin, now came upon deck in his shirt sleeves, rubbing his eyes, and looking so exquisitely ridiculous, it was scarcely possible to avoid laughing. So surprised was he at the unexpected termination of his dreams, he could not command skill enough to strike his colors; which was accordingly done by the mate. As they had two or three guns aboard, and as some of the men looked as if they would like to fight, our captain told us, if they fired to not "leave enough of her to boil a tin pot with." After this expressive and classical threat, we lowered our boats and took possession of this our first prize. After taking out as much of her cargo as we desired, just at night we set her on fire. It was an imposing sight, to behold the antics of the flames, leaping from rope to rope, and from spar to spar, until she looked like a fiery cloud resting on the dark surface of the water. Presently, her spars began to fall, her masts went by the board, her loaded guns went off, the hull was burned to the water's edge, and what, a few hours before, was a fine, trim ship, 131
Page 132
132 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK looking like a winged creature of the deep, lay a shapeless, charred mass, whose blackened outline, shadowed in the clear, still waves, looked like the grim spirit of war lurking for its prey. This wanton destruction of property was in accordance with our instructions, "to sink, burn and destroy" whatever we took from the enemy. Such is the war-spirit! SINK, BURN and DE- STROY! how it sounds! Yet such are the instructions given by Christian (?) nations to their agents in time of war. What Chris- tian will not pray for the destruction of such a spirit? The crew of the Barton we carried into St. Thomas, and placed them on board the Jane, excepting a Portuguese and two colored men, who shipped among our crew. We also took with us a fine black spaniel dog, whom the men called by the name of Paddy. This done, we proceeded to watch for fresh victims, on which to wreak the vengeance of the war-spirit. The next sail we met, was an English brig, called the Adven- ture; which had a whole menagerie of monkeys on board. We cap- tured and burned her, just as we did the Barton. Her crew were also disposed of in the same manner. One of them, an African prince, who had acquired a tolerable education in England, and who was remarkably polite and sensible, shipped in the Siren. His name was Samuel Quaqua. We now remained at St. Thomas several days, carrying on a petty trade with the natives. Our men bought all kinds of fruit, gold dust and birds. For these things, we gave them articles of clothing, tobacco, knives, &c. For an old vest, I obtained a large basket of oranges; for a hand of tobacco, five large cocoanuts: a profitable exchange on my side; since, although I drew my tobacco of the purser, I fortunately never acquired the habit of using it; a loss I never regretted. My cocoanuts were far more gratifying and valuable when we got to sea, parched with thirst, and suffering for water, than all the tobacco in the ship. 132
Page 133
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 133 While in this port, I had to throw myself on the protection of the officers, to avoid the disposition to abuse which existed in one of the petty officers. Several of these gentlemen, who messed to- gether, had a large boy to wait on them. He was unacquainted with naval usages, and somewhat awkward withal. This led them to oppress him: they frequently knocked him round, and even ven- tured to flog him with a rope's-end. The poor lad used to cry, and fret about it, leading quite a miserable life. By some means, it happened that I was ordered to take his place; and I determined to resist their habit of punishing their servant; so, one day, when the gunner came below for his share of the whisky, and found it was gone, his messmates having drank the whole, and asked me for his whisky, I boldly answered " I know nothing about it." At this, he broke out into a furious passion, declaring that if I did not find his whisky he would have my heart's blood. To this dignified and manly threat I made no reply, but pro- ceeded forthwith to the first lieutenant, and laid the facts before him. The gunner was sent for, reprimanded, and threatened with degredation, if ever he either struck or offered to strike me again. Of course, I had no further trouble with these would-be tyrants. The only other difficulty I ever had on board the Siren, was with a young midshipman, who was on his first voyage—who was, in sailor's language, "a real green-horn." He ordered me, one day, to wash his clothes. I refused, saying it was not my duty. Putting on the air of a pompous man, he told me it was my duty to obey an officer, and I should do it. I persisted in resisting this sprig of American aristocracy, and as I heard no more of it, I sup- pose he learned that he was in the wrong. The effect of my conduct on the gunner was seen a short time afterwards, in the following little incident, which will also show the reader the nature of the pranks practised in men of war, by the 133
Page 134
134 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK hands. The gunner was a very selfish man, and somehow, when we were on short allowance of water, he contrived to keep a keg filled, which he kept in a small state-room; and a man might choke before he would part with a drop. One night, when my throat was parched with thirst, I met the boatswain's mate, and said, "If I were minded to play the rogue, I could hook some water." The mate, who was as dry as myself, looked mightily gratified at this piece of news, and asked, "Where?" "I have a key that will fit the lock of the room where the gun- ner keeps his water keg." "Well," said he, "give me the key. I will be the rogue, while you keep watch for the old gunner." After drinking all we desired, we locked the door and returned to our posts, wondering how the gunner would feel when he found that some one had been practising the arithmetical rule, called re- duction, on his water keg. The next day the offended gunner threw out sundry hints to his messmates about his loss, indirectly charging them with the rob- bery. This drew down their wrath upon him, and he was compelled to be content with swallowing his choler, and getting a new lock for his state-room. In all his rage he never uttered a word to me: he had not forgotten my appeal to his superiors. From St. Thomas we proceeded to Angola, where we staid long enough to clean, paint and refit our brig, from stem to stern. This was the last port we intended to touch at on the coast of Africa. Our next anchorage was to be in Boston harbor—at least so we purposed; but Providence and the British ordered it otherwise. To accomplish our object, we had to run the gauntlet through the host of English cruisers that hovered about, like birds of prey, along both sides of the Atlantic coast. This enterprise appeared 134
Page 135
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 135 so impossible to my mind, while we lay at Angola, and the fear of being retaken and hung operated so strongly on my imagination, that, more than once, I determined to run away and find a refuge among the Africans; but my better judgment prevailed at last, and I continued at my post. Still, I used every possible precaution to escape detection in case of our capture. In accordance with the custom of our navy at that period, I let my hair grow long behind. To change my looks more effectually, instead of tying mine in a cue as the others did, I let it hang in ringlets all round my face and neck. This, together with the effect of time, caused me to appear quite a different lad from what I was, when a boy, on board the Macedonian. I also adopted that peculiarity of dress practised by American men-of- war's-men, which consisted in wearing my shirt open at the neck, with the corners thrown back. On these corners a device was wrought, consisting of the stars of the American flag, with the Brit- ish flag underneath. By these means I hoped to pass for a genu- ine Yankee, without suspicion, in case we should fall into English hands. Having finished our preparations, we left Angola for Boston. We reached the island of Ascension in safety, where was a post-of- fice of a truly patriarchal character. A box is nailed to a post near the shore. Ships that pass send to the box and deposit or take out letters, as the case may be. This is probably the cheapest general post-office establishment in the world. We had scarcely left this island before the cry of " Sail ho!" arrested every ear. Supposing her to be a large merchantman, we made towards her; but a nearer approach made it doubtful whether she was an Indiaman or a man of war. The captain judged her to be the latter, and tacked ship immediately. He was unwilling to place himself in the situation of an American privateer, who, mis- taking a seventy-four for a merchantman, ran his ship close along- 135
Page 136
136 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK side, and boldly summoned her to haul down her colors. The cap- tain of the other ship coolly replied, " I am not in the habit of strik- ing my colors." At the same moment the ports of his ship were opened, and disclosed her long ranges of guns, yawning over the decks of the privateer. Perceiving his mistake, the privateer, with admirable tact and good humor, said, " Well, if you won't, I will," and pulling down his bunting, surrendered to his more powerful foe. To avoid such a mistake as this, our captain made all sail to escape the coming stranger, which was now bearing down upon us under a heavy pressure of canvas, revealing, as she gained upon our little brig, that she bore the formidable character of a seventy- four gun ship, under English colors. Of course, fighting was out of the question. It would be like the assault of a dog on an elephant, or a dolphin on a whale. We therefore crowded all possible sail, threw our guns, cables, anchors, hatches, &c., overboard, to increase her speed. But it soon became apparent that we could not escape. The wind blew quite fresh, which gave our opponent the advantage: she gained on us very fast. We shifted our course, in hopes to baffle her until night, when we felt pretty sure of getting out of her way. It was of no use, she still gained, until we saw ourselves almost within gun-shot of our opponent. In this extremity, the captain ordered the quartermaster, George Watson, to throw the private signals overboard. This was a hard task for the bold-hearted fellow. As he pitched them into the sea, he said, " Good-bye, brother Yankee;" an expression which, in spite of their mortifying situation, forced a smile from the lips of the officers. The sound of a gun now came booming through the air. It was a signal for us to heave to, or to look out for consequences. What might have been, we learned afterwards, for a division of the crew of the seventy-four had orders to sink us if we made the least 136 ._..*
Page 137
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 137 show of resistance. Finding it useless to prolong the chase, our commander reluctantly ordered the flag to be struck. We then hove to, and our foe came rolling down upon us, looking like a huge avalanche rushing down the mountain side to crush some poor peas- ant's dwelling. Her officers stood on her quarter deck, glancing unutterable pride, while her captain shouted, " What brig is that?" "The United States brig Siren" replied Captain Nicholson. "This is his Britannic Majesty's ship Medway!"" he an- swered. "I claim you as my lawful prize." Boats were then lowered, the little brig taken from us, and our crew transferred to the Medway, stowed away in the cable tier, and put in messes of twelve, with an allowance of only eight men's rations to a mess; a regulation which caused us considerable suffer- ing from hunger. The sight of the marines on board the Medway made me tremble, for my fancy pointed out several of them as hav- ing formerly belonged to the Macedonian. I really feared I was destined to speedily swing at the yard-arm; it was, however, a groundless alarm. This event happened July 12, 1814. Only eight days before, we had celebrated the independence of our country, by dancing and splicing the main-brace. Now we had a fair prospect of a rigorous imprisonment. Such are the changes which constantly occur un- der the rule of the war-spirit. The day subsequent to our capture, we were marched to the quarter deck with our clothes-bags, where we underwent a strict search. We were ordered to remove our outside garments for this purpose. They expected to find us in possession of large quanti- ties of gold dust. What little our crew had purchased was taken from them, with a spirit of rapacity altogether beneath the dignity of a naval commander. 17 Captain Augustus Bruce (James' Hist. British Navy). 137
Page 138
138 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK Our short allowance was a source of much discomfort in this our prison-ship. But, in the true spirit of sailors, we made even this a subject of coarse jests and pleasant remark. Some would sit and paint the luxuries of shore life until our mouths watered at the idea of soft tack, fried eggs, sausages, and those other deli- cacies which go to make up a sailor's idea of a sensual paradise. Others would discourse about roast beef, boiled lamb, and caper sauce; to which some old weather-beaten tar would answer, " Give me the lamb and a knife and fork, and I will cut capers enough." This would draw out peals of laughter, to be followed by various yarns of feasts gone by, and of sprees enjoyed on liberty and pay- days. Thus we beguiled our time; though, with all our laughing, we could not laugh away the clamors of our hungry stomachs; and when I took my turn of a few minutes on deck, the gift of a piece of hard, dry biscuit, afforded me more gustatory delight, than would the taste of the richest pound-cake, now that I have an abundance of food. Enduring this evil, we proceeded on our course. When the Medway arrived at Simon's Town, about twenty-one miles from the Cape of Good Hope, we met the Denmark, seventy-four, on her way to England, with prisoners from Cape Town. The cap- tain had hitherto intended to land us at the latter place, but the presence of the Denmark led him to change his purpose, and land us at Simon's Town. The journey from this place to the Cape was one of great suf- fering to our crew. We were received on the beach by a file of Irish soldiers. Under their escort we proceeded seven miles, through heaps of burning sand, seeing nothing worthy of notice on the way, but a number of men busily engaged in cutting up dead whales on the.sea-shore. After resting a short time, we recommenced our march, guarded by a new detachment of soldiers. Unused to walking as 138
Page 139
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 139 we were, we began to grow excessively fatigued; and, after wading a stream of considerable depth, we were so overcome, that it seemed impossible to proceed any farther. We lay down, discouraged and wretched, on the sand. The guard brought us some bread, and gave half-a-pint of wine to each man. This revived us somewhat. We were now placed under a guard of dragoons. They were very kind, and urged us to attempt the remaining seven miles. To re- lieve us, they carried our clothes-bags on their horses; and overtak- ing some Dutch farmers, going to the Cape with broom-stuff and brush, the officer of the dragoons made them carry the most weary among us in their wagons. It is not common for men to desire the inside of a prison, but I can assure my readers we did most heartily wish ourselves there, on that tedious journey. At last, about nine o'clock, P. M., we arrived at Cape Town, having left one of our number at Wineburg, through exhaustion, who joined us the next day. Stiff, sore, and weary, we hastily threw ourselves on the hard boards of our prison, where, without needing to be soothed or rocked, we slept profoundly until late the next morning. For a description of our prison, with what happened to us there, the reader is referred to the succeeding chapter. 139
Page 140
CHAPTER X THE next morning we took a survey of our new quarters. We found ourselves placed in a large yard, surrounded by high walls, and strongly guarded by soldiers. Within this inclosure, there was a building, or shed, composed of three rooms, neither of which had any floor. Round the sides stood three benches or stages, one above the other, to serve for berths. On these we spread our hammocks and bed-clothes, makng them tol- erably comfortable places to sleep in. A few of the men preferred to sling their hammocks, as they did at sea. Here, also, we used to eat, unless, as was our frequent practice, we did so in the open air. Our officers had been sent thirty miles inland, so that we had lost the natural exactors of discipline among seamen. To remedy this deficiency, our first step was to adopt a set of regulations in re- spect to order, cleanliness, &c., and to appoint certain of our num- ber to enforce them. We experienced some unpleasantness, at first, from the inso- lence of some of the sergeants commanding the prison guard. Most of these petty officers were very friendly and kind, but two or three of them manifested a surly, tyrannical temper, annoying us in many little things, enough to embitter our enjoyment, while they were on duty. This petty despotism we soon cured, by returning their abuse in a rather provoking kind of coin. We used to plague them by causing a long delay when the hour arrived for them to be re- lieved. They were required to muster us every morning, that we might be counted before the new guard took us in charge. On those occasions some would purposely absent themselves; others were sent to find the absentees; these, in their turn, would hide themselves, and require to be sought by others. This was excess- 140
Page 141
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 141 ively vexatious to the soldiers, and as it occurred only when a ty- rannical sergeant was on guard, they soon understood its meaning. The plan was successful, and we thus got rid of one source of dis- comfort. Our next difficulty was with the old Dutchman, named Badiem, who furnished our prison with provisions. He had already learned the difficulty of cheating a Yankee; for the Americans who were car- ried away in the Denmark had been in this same prison, and had taught the old man that they were rougher customers than the Frenchmen who had preceded them. We gave him another lesson. He undertook to wrong us and benefit himself by furnishing a very inferior article of bread. After counselling among ourselves, we took the following plan to bring him to his senses: We were visited every day by a superior officer, called the offi- cer of the day. He was a kind old man, who had seen service in the war of the revolution, and was at the battle of Bunker Hill. He had a profound respect for the American character, and could not speak of that great action without tears. One day a friendly ser- geant being on duty, we gave him a piece of the old Dutchman's bread, complaining bitterly of its quality. When the old officer came round as usual, on a fine, dashing charger, and asked his cus- tomary question of "All right?" our friend the sergeant replied, "No, sir!" "What is the matter?" asked the venerable old gentleman. "The prisoners complain of their bread, sir," said the sergeant. "Let me see it," answered the general. The sergeant gave him a small piece. He examined it, wrapped it up carefully in some paper, clapped the spurs to his horse, and rode off. The next day, we had better bread than ever before, and an order came for a man from each room to go with the sentry to the town every morning, to examine our daily provision; and, if not what it should be, to reject it. This completely upset the golden visions of the old Dutchman. 141
Page 142
142 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK With much choler he exclaimed, "I had rather have one tousand Frenchmen, than one hundred Yankees." We could not now complain of our fare. We had an abun- dance of beef and mutton, beside a full allowance of bread, &c. The beef, to be sure, was poor, lean stuff, but the mutton was excellent. The sheep at the Cape have a peculiarity, which may cause the reader to smile. They have enormously large, flat tails, weighing from twelve to twenty pounds. These are regularly sold by the pound for purposes of cookery. Should any one treat this state- ment as a forecastle yarn, I refer him to the descriptions of these sheep, given by travellers and naturalists.18 Besides our prison allowance, we had opportunity to purchase as many little luxuries and niceties as our slender finances would permit. These were furnished by a slave, who was the property of the old Dutchman, and who was so far a favorite as to be indulged with two wives, and the privilege of selling sundry small articles to the prisoners. This sable polygamist furnished us with coffee, made from burnt barley, for a doublegee (an English penny)20 per pint; the same sum would purchase a sausage, a piece of fish, or a glass of rum. On equally reasonable terms, he furnished us with blackberries, oranges, &c. Our men, who, by the way had eaten fruit in every quarter of the globe, and were therefore competent judges, pronounced the latter the best in the world. The berries af- forded me a rich treat at Christmas. 18 The Barbary sheep entirely resembles the tame kind, excepting in the tail, which is very much loaded with fat, is often more than a foot broad, and weighs upwards of twenty pounds. Among this kind of broad-tailed sheep, there are some whose tails are so long and heavy, that the shep- herds are obliged to fasten a small board with wheels, to support them as they walk along. This tail, which is a substance between marrow and fat, is considered a great delicacy.—See System of Natural History. Bos- ton: Carter, Hendee fy Co., 1834. 20 Twenty-four doublegees made a rix dollar. 142
Page 143
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 143 To obtain means for the purchase of these dainties, our men braided hats, wrought at mechanical employments, or at such pur- suits as their respective tastes and capacities suggested. These oc- cupations served to beguile our confinement of much of its tedious- ness. Still, we had many vacant, listless hours. To fill them, we re- sorted to the demoralizing practice of gambling. A game with balls, called shake-bag, loo, venture, all-fours, &c. occupied our even- ing hours, and sometimes the whole night. It was not uncommon for the game to be protracted beyond the midnight hour of Saturday, into the sacred moments of the holy Sabbath. On one of these guilty mornings, some of us, on retiring to a shed, found the dead body of a black slave, hanging by the rope, with which, in a moment of un- pardonable despair, he had committed the horrid crime of suicide. The hour, the scene, the place, our recent guilty profanation of God's holy day, conspired to fill many of us with profound dread. In my own mind it led to a few transient purposes of amendment. Alas! when the bright sun arose, these purposes had vanished. The influence of vice triumphed. I grew more and more hardened in wickedness. Cape Town contained a large slave population. These poor wretches had been extremely degraded under the rule of the Dutch. It was said that their condition had been essentially improved since the conquest of the place by the English. Still, as the suicide just mentioned demonstrated, slavery was a bitter draught. The Brit- ish have done wisely since then in granting freedom to the slaves in all their colonies. May the whole world imitate the noble example! We were subjected to frequent and violent gales of wind while here. The approach of these storms was always faithfully pro- claimed by the mountain that towered up behind us; a large white cloud, resting on its summit, like a tablecloth, was a certain indica- tion of the elemental warfare. Whenever this phenomenon ap- 143
Page 144
144 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK peared, our men used to remark, " Look out for a blow, the cloth is beginning to spread." Very soon the vessels in the bay could be seen striking their top-gallant masts and yards, and sometimes even housing their top-masts. In a few minutes the ocean would give signs of the coming commotion; the waves became crested with clouds of foam, and the spirit of the storm was seen careering in triumph over the liquid mountains of the angry deep. Besides Table mountain, there was another near it, called the Lion's Rump, from its similarity to that noble animal in a sitting posture. On the summit of this mountain was a telegraph, which informed us, in common with the people of the Cape, of the ap- proach of shipping to the harbor. At the town, the British had a hospital for the accommodation of their army and navy. The advantages of this institution were humanely and properly offered to us, whenever we were sick. Happening to be quite unwell one day, my ship- mates advised me to go thither. Now, on board the Siren, when in a similar state, the surgeon had administered an ounce of Glauber salts. The dose caused such nausea, that from that time I held salts in profound abhorrence. When the hospital was suggested to me, I associated it with the idea of salts, and, shuddering, remarked that " I would go if I thought they would not give me salts." My shipmates all said they thought I should not have salts prescribed: so, under the guard of a sentry, I sallied forth to the hospital. "Well, my boy," said the doctor, " what's the matter with you?" With many wry faces, I told him my symptoms; when, to my inconceivable mortification and disgust, he spoke to a sort of lob- lolly boy, who waited upon him, and said, " Doctor Jack! bring this boy six ounces of salts." This was intolerable. One ounce had sickened me for months at the bare mention of salts, and now I was to swallow six! It seemed impossible. The remedy was worse than the disease. I 144
Page 145
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 145 wished myself back at my quarters. This was, however, in vain, unless I took a dangerous leap from the window. I must submit. The salts were brought, but they were not so bad, either in quality or quantity, as my dose in the Siren. The reason I found to consist in the fact, that they were Epsom instead of Glauber, and that the six ounces included the weight of the water in which they were dis- solved. So well was I pleased with my visit to the hospital, and especially with the privilege afforded me of walking about the streets of Cape Town, that I afterwards feigned illness to gain an- other admission. I was willing to take the salts for the sake of the liberty of jaunting about the streets. Of the sin of lying I thought nothing. I was a sailor, caring little for aught but present gratifi- cation. The beauty of truth I had never seen; the hatefulness of a lie I had never learned. Most gratefully do I acknowledge that Divine goodness, which has since effectually taught me both the one and the other. At Cape Town there was a small prison, called the "Trunk." To this place those of our number, who were disorderly, were sent, to be closely confined, on no other diet than bread and water, for as many days as the commandant might designate. We always quietly permitted any offender among us to be sent thither without resistance: but when, on one occasion, an attempt was made to con- fine two of our shipmates unjustly, we gave them a demonstration, which saved us afterwards from any similar attempt. Two of our men had hung out some clothes, they had just washed, in our yard, near their own shed. Now, it happened that the doctor to the military stationed at the Cape, had an entrance to his office through our yard. The clothes were undesignedly hung across his path, compelling him either to stoop a little in passing, or to ask their removal. He was too proud to adopt either of these peaceful methods, but, with manifest spitefulness, he took out his knife and cut the line, so that the clothes fell into the dirt. The owners, seeing their wet clothing in this condition, broke out into 145
Page 146
146 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK passionate inquiries after the offender. "It was the English doc- tor," replied one of our shipmates, who had witnessed the whole af- fair. This brought forth a volley of sailors' oaths from the of- fended parties. The enraged doctor overheard their wrathful ebul- litions, and, without further ceremony, ordered the two men to be carried to the "Trunk." Here, then, was a manifest case of injustice. We resolved not to submit to it, let the consequences be what they might. When the sergeant came in for the doctor's victims, we all turned out in a body, declaring we would all go to the " Trunk " together. The ser- geant, seeing us in this state of rebellion, called out the whole guard, and ordered them to load and fire upon us. We were not however so easily scared. We shouted, " Fire away! You will have but one fire, and then it will be our turn." At the same time we picked up all the broken glass, sticks, stones, &c., which were within our reach, and stood waiting for their firing as the signal for a general melee. The sergeant, seeing our resolution, and wisely considering that our su- periority in numbers, might secure us a victory over the handful composing his guard, ordered the soldiers to retire. We never heard any more of the little doctor's indignation: it probably evaporated, like the moisture from the clothes his petty indignation had thrown to the ground. How insignificant such acts appear, in men pro- fessing to be gentlemen! Shortly after this event, we were thrown into confusion and temporary excitement, by the approach of a large party to our prison, at midnight, attended by a band of music. We turned out and rushed to the gate of our yard. The guard turned out likewise, trembling under the impression that our countrymen had captured the town and were coming to give us our liberty. Their fears and our wonder were quieted, however, by a speedy discovery of the true character of this midnight party. It was a Dutch wedding, coming to the house of the old Dutchman, our caterer; the entrance to which being in our yard, the party had to pass directly through our terri- 146
Page 147
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 147 tories; which they did, their band playing the tune of "A free and accepted Mason." Notwithstanding we were in tolerably comfortable circum- stances, our confinement soon became exceedingly irksome. We pined for freedom; we longed to get once more where the "old gridiron " floated in fearless triumph. A report of the burning of Washington by the British added not a little to our desire. We be- gan to talk of home. This led to other suggestions; these to the formation of plans for our ecsape. We at length concerted a meas- ure, which was, to break from the prison in the night, disarm and confine the guard, help ourselves to boats, and cut out some large ship, in which we might make our escape to America. The success of this plot, however, was never tested; for, reaching the ears of the commander, the guards were strengthened; the light dragoons or- dered out to patrol the harbor; and such other preventive measures adopted, as cut off all hope of forcible escape. Our only remedy for this disappointment, was submission, and boasting of what we would have done, had we got into the strife for liberty. As the period of our imprisonment drew towards a close, we were informed that the Rev. George Thom, a mssionary, was desir- ous to come and preach to us. Some of our men objected, because, they said, he would preach about his king, and they had no desire to hear anything about kings. Others said, " Let him come; we will hear him with attention, and if we don't like him we can afterwards stay away. At any rate, don't let us abuse him; but rather show him that Americans know what is good behavior." This reply shows the true spirit of the mass of seamen in re- spect to religion; for though they care little about personal piety, they will not, usually, unless intoxicated, insult a minister. This was once shown in the experience of the eccentric Rowland Hill; when a mob threatened the old gentleman with mischief, some sail- ors present rallied round him, threatening vengeance on any who dared to insult the preacher. 147
Page 148
148 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK Accordingly, we sent our respects to Mr. Thom, inviting him to favor us with a visit. We then cleaned and fitted up one room with benches. The following Sabbath he came. His preaching was earnest, simple and interesting. Instead of discoursing about kings, as some had predicted, the only king about whom he preached, was the King of heaven. We invited him to come again. He accepted the invitation, and our meetings soon began to be profitable and interesting. We had singing, for several of our men were tolerable singers, and they were aided by the presence of some pious soldiers from the garrison, and occasionally by Mrs. Thom, the amiable lady of our excellent preacher. Our officers, too, frequently came from their residence, and were pleased to see the good order and happiness apparent on these occasions. I as- sure my readers, that the most delightful moments of our impris- onment were those we spent in singing some sweet hymn, in the good old-fashioned tunes of Bridgewater, Russia, Wells, &c. Among the texts used by Mr. Thom, I remember the follow- ing: "Turn ye to the strong-hold, ye prisoners of hope;" Zech. ix. 12. "Behold, I stand at the door and knock," &c.; Rev. iii. 20. "And yet there is room; " Luke xiv. 22. It was really pleas- ing to hear the various remarks made by our men, after listening to faithful discourses from these and similar texts. One would remark, "He hit me a clew." To this another would reply, " He shot away my colors." A third would add, "He shot away my rigging;" while a fourth would say, "He gave me a shot;" and a fifth, "He gave me a broadside." Thus, in their rough way, did they express the impressions made on their minds by the dis- course. Mr. Thom was a faithful servant of his Master, the Lord Jesus Christ. He did not rest satisfied with these public efforts, but, during the week, he visited us for the purpose of serious con- versation. Several of us were really under strong conviction, and would confess, at these inquiry meetings, and to each other as we 148
Page 149
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 149 paced the yard, how often we had sinned, even cursing our Makei when on the yard at night, amid the roaring of the storm, the bel- lowing of the thunder, and the angry flashing of the lightning. A happy practical effect followed. Gambling ceased, cards and shake-bag lost their charms. The time was spent in reading useful books. Bibles and religious books were given or loaned to us. Among these were Baxter's Call, Doddridge's Rise and Progress of Religion, &c. To some extent we were altered men. Had we remained much longer under these gracious influences, most of us, I think, would have become experimental Christians. As it was, the seed was not wholly wasted. Impressions were made, which, no doubt, have, in many cases, yielded rich fruit long before this. My own mind was strongly wrought upon. A singular dream added to my seriousness. In my dream, I saw myself drowning, while a fierce-looking soldier was pointing his loaded musket at my head. Thus death threatened me from two sources. In this extremity my anguish was very great. All my gracious opportunities passed before me, but now it seemed too late for sal- vation. "Oh," thought I in my sleep, " what would I give, if this were only a dream! How faithfully would I serve the Lord when I awoke." Just at that moment I did awake, scarcely able to con- vince myself that the ideal scene was not an awful reality. That day I eagerly sought the missionary, and sat with serious delight listening to his instructions. Still I did not give myself up to the service of Christ. So difficult was it for me to make the requisite sacrifice of my beloved sins. Just at this interesting crisis, a glad report of peace between England and America reached our prison. With joyful faces we assembled round the good man, when he came that day, to inquire if it was really so. While he assured us of its truth, he mildly asked "if it was peace with Heaven; " assuring us that it was a matter of the greatest importance for us to be at peace with God. 149
Page 150
150 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK As a memento of our esteem for Mr. Thom, we made him sev- eral little presents. One of them was a hat made from a bullock's horn. The horn was peeled into narrow slips, these were scraped, split, and braided like straw, and then sewed together. We also made him a model of a ship, fully rigged from stem to stern. The missionary received these marks of our regard with evident pleas- ure; and, no doubt, when looking upon them afterwards, offered many a prayer for the salvation of the prisoners, who were, for many weeks, the subjects of his anxiety and labors. Blessings rest on him, if he yet lives! Peace to his ashes, if he slumbers among the dead! Great was the joy of my companions, when the news reached us that we were to embark shortly, in the Cumberland, seventy- four, for England. Little was now said or done, except what re- lated to our departure. With strange, yet common perversity of conduct, serious matters were laid aside for the one absorbing thought, "We shall soon be free!" Thus, an event which should have given birth to gratitude and religious service, only served for an occasion of further neglect and unthankfulness. How strangely wicked is the human heart! For myself, the tidings filled me with fear. Directly to America I would have gladly gone; but to be carried to England, in one of her ships of war, was like going to certain death. How was it possible for me to escape detection? How could I avoid meeting with some old Macedonians, who would, of course, recog- nise and betray me? These questions had resolved me to volun- teer to remain at the Cape, a short time before, when some of our number were sent to England. Now, they tortured me beyond en- durance. I felt like an escaped criminal with the officers of justice at his heels. Death at the yard-arm haunted me day and night, like the fancied ghost of a murdered man, staring ghastly at the window of his murderer. No one can imagine my uneasiness, un- less he has been placed in a similar situation. I made many prom- 150
Page 151
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 151 ises to God that if he would carry me in safety to America, I would cease to be a swearer, and would most punctually attend his house every Sabbath. These things constituted my highest ideas of hu- man duty at that time; but even these promises, like those made during the heat of the battle in the Macedonian, were made to be broken. After a little delay, we were conveyed on board the Cumber- land, where we soon heard the well-known summons of "All hands up anchor, ahoy!" A cloud of canvas dropped from her gigantic yards; the sportive breeze came obedient to our wish; and the huge form of the Cumberland, accompanied by a large convoy of mer- chant vessels, was borne rapidly along upon the yielding waves. Cape Town, Table Mountain, the Lion's Rump, and our prison- yard, were soon left far behind, leaving no traces of their existence on the distant horizon; they were to be known to us hereafter only among the images of the brain—as recollections, not as realities. We had spent eight months in the prison of Cape Town. Our treatment in this ship was superior to what we received in the Medway. Instead of the cable tier, we had berths on the upper gun deck, and pur allowance of food was sufficient for our wants. Arriving at St. Helena, we remained a few days in port. This rough, rock-bound island had not yet received its future prisoner, the emperor of France. Here we were removed from the Cumber- land. Twenty-four of us were sent on board the Grampus, of fifty guns, the rest were sent home in our old conqueror, the Medway; my lot being cast among the former. This transfer to the Grampus greatly alarmed me; since the more men I saw, the greater, of course, was my chance of detec- tion. I had already escaped being known on board of two sev- enty-fours; but I could not promise myself the same impunity much longer. However, as I saw no one whose face was familiar* 151
Page 152
152 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK when I went on board, I felt a little more easy. But that night, I had occasion for great trepidation and alarm. About nine o'clock, I heard the order from an officer, of "Pass the word for the boy Leech." This was followed by several voices halloo- ing, "Boy Leech! boy Leech!" My heart beat like a trip- hammer against my bosom, and a cold sweat crept over my whole body. My shipmates said they meant me; but I would not reply. After a few moments, I breathed more freely, and the fear of death passed away. I heard some one saying, "Your master wants you; " which convinced me that there was a " boy Leech" among the crew of the Grampus, as well as another boy Leech among the American prisoners. On our passage, we made a strange sail. Coming up to her, to our infinite satisfaction we beheld the stars and stripes at her mast-head. "Brother Jonathan has come to town," said one of our men. "He is a most welcome visitor," the rest replied; for indeed "the old gridiron" never looked so pleasant as it did then. This meeting confirmed us in the report of peace between the two na- tions. This was as gratifying to the crew of the Grampus as to us; for they had recently heard that the war with France was ended, and they were all hoping to get discharged. This expecta- tion was defeated, however, by intelligence from some passing ship^ that Napoleon was at Paris again, with a force of sixty thousand men. Nothing could exceed the joy of the officers, and the vexation of the crew, at this piece of information. The former dreaded a peace, because it would place many of them on half-pay; while the chances of war inspired them with hopes of promotion; hence they ran alongside almost every ship in the fleet, shouting, "Have you heard the news? Bonaparte has got to Paris with sixty thousand men!" Really, some of them seemed crazy with joy at the idea of protracted war. Not so, however, the seamen; they longed for peace, since war only brought them hard usage, wounds and death. 152
Page 153
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 153 While, therefore, the officers were rejoicing, they were muttering curses and oaths, wishing Bonaparte and his army at perdition. Nor was it strange that they felt thus; for the discipline on board the Grampus was excessively severe. They were constantly flog- ging in the most harsh and cruel manner. The Sirens were as- tonished at what they saw; for on board our brig, we seldom saw more than a dozen lashes inflicted at one time, and that not very often. At last we came in sight of the white cliffs of old England. To avoid suspicion, I appeared much interested in everything I saw on the coast, and asked the men all those questions which are natural to a stranger, when he sees a new country for the first time. These inquiries they answered with the utmost good humor; for an Englishman is proud of his country, notwithstanding he may find hard usage from her hands. My American friends have frequently asked if my language did not excite suspicion that I was English. It never did to my knowledge; indeed, so free was I from English provincialisms, that it was often remarked to me, that I " needed no protection; " mean- ing, that I should be taken for a Yankee, without offering proof. With all this in my favor, I could not behold myself approach- ing my native soil, without many misgivings. To a man who knows a halter is hanging over his head, everything furnishes cause for alarm; a piercing look, a whisper, or the sudden mention of his name, is a cause of disquietude, sufficient to stir his inmost soul. Captain Nicholson gave me no little uneasiness, by sending for me one day, just before we arrived in port, to make some inquiries about Mr. Crowninshield, of Salem, Mass. Luckily, I could say I had seen him; beyond that, I could give no further information. He supposed me to be a native of Salem, while I was quaking, through a fearful expectation of being found nearly as ignorant of that city, as I had been, on another occasion, of the city of Phil- adelphia. 153
Page 154
154 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK At length we reached S pithead, and were removed to an old prison-ship, called the Puissant, which had once belonged to the French. Here we were treated with great lenity; we were even allowed liberty to go on shore. Had I dared, I would have run away; the dread of the halter restrained me! I did not even ven- ture to write, lest my mother should be tempted to visit me, or even to write; since even a letter from any place in England, might awaken suspicion concerning my true character.* After a stay of several weeks in the old Puissant, orders came for our transfer to the Rover, a gun-brig, which had orders to carry us to Plymouth. Here was a double risk again before me. I had to risk being known by the crew of the Rover, and by the many persons who had known me at Plymouth. However, the good hand of Providence was with me to preserve me. We reached our port in safety, where, to our grea't delight, we heard that the Wood- rop Simms, of Philadelphia, was to be the Cartel to convey us to America. Before we were allowed to tread her decks, however, we had to spend two or three days on board the Royal Sovereign, of one hun- * An instance of maternal imprudence was said to have occurred in this port on board another ship. A poor woman went on board and in- quired for her son, who had run from the British service, and was then among the captive crew of an American prize. They told her there was no one of that name among the crew. "He is among the Yankees," said she. Hearing this, the prisoners were called up, and the poor, affectionate, but ill-judging mother, singled out her son, and embracing him, said, "I have brought you a clean shirt!" The lieutenant, who stood by them, stepped up, remarking to the thunder-stricken man, "It's a clean shirt you want, is it? I will give you a clean handkerchief"—meaning that he would be hung. The unhappy youth was accordingly ironed, in presence of the astounded mother, who now beheld herself the unintentional murderess of her son. A court-martial was held, and the brutal prediction of the lieutenant verified. 154
Page 155
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 155 dred and ten guns, because the Woodrop Simms was not quite ready to receive us. Here I was exposed to the gaze of eight hun- dred men; but none of them knew me. Indeed, this was my most hazardous situation; for the Sovereign and Macedonian had sailed in company before the capture of the latter. Whenever any of her men came near our quarters, I endeavored to look cross-eyed, or closed one eye so as to appear partially blind; and in various other ways altered my appearance, so that even an old shipmate would have been puzzled to recognise me at first. At last, the grateful news reached us that the Cartel was ready. We went on board with great gaiety, where we met our shipmates who had left the Cape before us. They had been confined in the celebrated Dartmoor prison, with a number of other prisoners, where they had met with rather rough treatment and rougher fare. They were present at what they called the Massacre. Several of the prisoners were detected in an effort to escape. To strike ter- ror into the poor victims, Captain Shortland ordered his men to fire in upon them. Quite a number were killed, and more wounded, by this cold-blooded act; the rest sought the shelter of the prison walls. Several Americans suffered in this wanton assault. Our meeting at this juncture was a source of mutual gratulation. Our ship was now surrounded with boats containing provi- sions of all descriptions. To our surprise, the Dartmoor men bought freely of everything. Where they obtained their money, we could not imagine. We learned afterwards that their stock consisted of counterfeit coins, manufactured by the prisoners! It was well for them that our ship put to sea before John Bull's peace officers received information of the fraud. What a school for every species of vice is opened by war! The corruptions and vices occa- sioned by the operation of this system, are beyond the power of the imagination to conceive. My feelings were peculiar as I beheld my native land receding from my vision. I was happy, and yet sad. Happy, because I 155
Page 156
156 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK was now safe; sad, because I was again leaving the soil which held my mother and my friends. On the whole, my joyous feelings prevailed. A few days out, we were hailed by an English frigate. She sent a boat alongside to make some inquiries, and left us to pursue our way in peace. We were all in good spirits; our men being divided into watches to assist the crew of the ship; our officers all snugly quartered in the cabin, and myself appointed to assist the steward; an office quite agreeable to one who had lived on prison- ers' fare more than a year,19 because it brought me a few of the spare luxuries from the officers' table. One morning, shortly after the English frigate had boarded us.- Captain Nicholson asked me something about Salem. I smiled. He inquired why I laughed. "Sir," said I, " Salem is not my na- tive place by considerable." "What do you mean?" asked the captain, looking somewhat puzzled at my manner of treating the subject. I then unfolded the secret of my having been one of the crew captured in the Macedonian. They seemed amazed at the risks I had encountered since the capture of the Siren, and congratulated me very warmly on my really hair-breadth escape from the halter. It was a fortunate escape indeed, for which I can never be suffi- ciently thankful to that All-seeing Eye, that watched for my safety in the moment of peril. During this voyage, a great deal was said about quitting the seas and settling down in quietness ashore. One of our shipmates, named William Carpenter, who belonged to Rhode Island, had a particular enthusiasm in favor of farming. He promised to take me with him, where I could learn the art of cultivating the soil. Many of us made strong resolutions to embark in some such en- terprise. The pleasures of agriculture were sung and praised 10 We were captured July 12, 1814; it was now August, 1815. 156
Page 157
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 157 among us in so ardent a manner, that he must have been incredu- lous indeed, who could have doubted, for a moment, the certainty of quite a number of our hands becoming farmers, whenever we should gain the land. One night we lay in our hammocks, talking with great earnest- ness about our favorite scheme, the wind blowing quite freshly on deck. Said one, " If I ever get home, you won't catch me on board of a ship again." "Yes," said another; "farmers live well, at any rate. They are not put on allowance, but have enough to eat: if they work hard all day, they can turn in at night; and if it blows hard, the house won't rock much, and there's no sails to reef." While this and similar conversation was going on, the wind was blowing harder and harder: from occasional heavy puffs, it at last grew to be a tremendous gale. Hearing so much wind, though there were hands enough on deck to manage the ship, some of us got up to assist if we were needed. It was now blowing most fear- fully; the wild howling and whistling among the rigging, the wilder roar of the angry sea, the hallooing of the captain, and the impene- trable darkness which lent its horrors to the scene, were appalling even to a sailor's breast. Just as I stepped upon deck she shipped a heavy sea, which drenched me to the skin. Presently, we heard the crash of falling timbers, and away went a top-mast, and a yard in the slings. There were now so many men on deck that Ave were in each other's way; some of us went below and turned in, with the full expectation that our ship would founder before morning; and thinking it would be as well to go down in our hammocks as on deck. While this state of gloomy foreboding continued, some of my shipmates manifested great alarm about eternity. They prayed aloud, in deep distress. Others only cursed, and said, as if in bra- vado, "We are all going to hell together." For my own part I kept repeating the Lord's prayer, and renewing those promises so often made in the moment of apparent destruction. 157
Page 158
158 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK At length the day dawned, revealing the sad havoc made by the winds, of our masts and rigging. We also saw a number of those dwellers on the ocean, called Mother Carey's chickens. Our shattered aspect reminded me of the Macedonian after the bat- tle, excepting that we had no wounded and dead about us now. Captain Jones, who had not left the deck a moment during the night, declared that, though he had been twenty-five years at sea, he had never witnessed such a gale before. Our ship was nearly new, and an excellent sea-boat, or she would have shared the fate of many a ship in that terrible gale. As the wind abated with the approach of day, we repaired our damages and proceeded on our voyage, frequently passing vessels which had suffered as severely as ourselves. This gale was on the 9th and 10th days of August, 1815. Probably many, both sailors and landsmen, will recollect this and the September gale of that year, which occasioned such destruction of life and shipping. Sailors are superstitious. Our men attributed this mishap to the presence of some Jonah in the ship. The man they pitched upon, as the probable offender, was an old sea-captain, who had been cast away several times. That he had done some fearful deed, was a .matter of undoubted truth among them; but not being so resolute as the mariners of Tarshish, they did not cast him into the sea; neither did this liberality on their part cost us our lives, for, after several days of pleasant weather, we one morning found ourselves safely anchored at the quarantine ground, near the city of New York. The crew of the Siren having obtained leave to go on shore, full of my good purposes to lead a steady life on the land, I hur- ried directly to Broadway, to inquire for my former employer, the kind-hearted boot-maker. To my disappointment, he had gone to Philadelphia; so that I returned on board, somewhat chagrined at the failure of my plan. 158
Page 159
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 159 The next morning we were conveyed, in a large sail-boat, on board the Tom Bowling, an hermaphrodite brig. Here I was con- gratulated by the old quartermaster, Lewis Deal, who was with me when we narrowly escaped capture at the mouth of Salem har- bor, while on a fishing excursion. He said he had felt much anxi- ety for my safety all the voyage, especially as it was reported that my former captain had made strict search for the Macedonians among all the American prisoners who were carried to England. The kind-hearted old man wept tears of gladness at my safe re- turn. While we staid in the Tom Bowling, the September gale, men- tioned above, took place. We were right glad, as it broke its fury over our anchorage in vain, to think we were so safely housed in a good harbor, instead of being exposed to its wrath on the deep. Many a brave heart perished in that memorable storm. The two years having expired for which we shipped, we were paid off. With the sum of one hundred dollars, I hurried on shore and deposited my funds in the hands of my landlord, at a sailor's boarding-house. Now followed a life of dissipation and folly. The grave resolutions, passed at sea, to settle down as steady farmers, vanished into air. Drinking, swearing, gambling, going to the theatre, and other kindred vices, took up all our time as long as our money lasted. Our religious vows were equally slighted and forgotten: instead of being better, we became worse than ever. We felt as if New York belonged to us, and that we were really the happiest, jolliest fellows in the world. For my own part, I fell deeper into wickedness than ever be- fore: drinking, swearing, and gambling as I had never done on any former occasion. How could it be otherwise? Who cared for the sailor then? Not one. He was left to his own depraved heart's promptings. Bethels and religious boarding-houses did not then throw their genial influences round his path, to charm his footsteps to the shrines of virtue and religion. Near the very spot 159
Page 160
160 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK where the Bethel church now stands in New York, I have fre- quently gambled for hours, with a bottle of spirits on the table, uncaring and uncared for by any human being. Thrice blessed be the man who first established Bethels and temperance boarding- houses! They are the sailor's life-boats, which snatch him from the gory jaws of the unprincipled landsharks who fatten on his ruin. Sometimes, in a sober moment, I thought I would break away from this wicked mode of life. I even engaged myself to a boot- maker, to complete my knowledge of his business; but, the dread of the confinement to the shoe-bench, which my riotous fancy painted as being worse than a prison, drove me from my purpose, and left me still among my shipmates. At last my landlord told me my money was all expended, and that I must look out for something to do. My shipmates were in a similar dilemma, their number decreasing every day, as one after another shipped in the various merchant vessels preparing for sea. Alas! for our farmers in perspective. Their dreams of ploughing the land evaporated, leaving them what they were before, and what most of them remained until death, the ploughmen of the ocean. My landlord's gentle hint put a stop to my excesses, for the very sufficient reason that it was attended with a protest on my further checks for funds. For a while, I found employment in loading and unloading ships, and in assisting to fit them for sea. But this proving an uncertain employment, I was induced to join a number of my fellow-boarders in going to the rendezvous of the United States brig Boxer. Here we shipped for two years more. I was then eighteen years of age, and was rated as an ordinary seaman, with ten dollars per month wages. Behold me then, dear reader, once more on board a man of war, in spite of all the dangers I had escaped, and the promises I had made to risk myself no more on the ocean! The next chapter will unfold the events which trans- pired while I sailed in the Boxer. - 160
Page 161
CHAPTER XI ON shipping in the Boxer, I received three months' advance which, excepting a small sum expended for clothing, fel into the hands of my rapacious landlord. How much thi gentleman contrived to filch from me, it is not in my power to say but that he was well paid, I have no doubt. He had my hundre dollars, my advance, all I earned for working on the wharves, an nine dollars beside, which I obtained from the purser. All this according to his account, I spent in a few weeks, with the excep- tion of a very small sum laid out for clothing. As I had no means of proving his statements false, there was no alternative but sub- mission, and a return to a life of toil and danger, to earn a fresh supply. As the method by which I obtained the nine dollars, above mentioned, from the purser, will exhibit one of the modes in which seamen are sometimes cheated, I will relate it. While in the Siren I drew but half my allowance of grog. By the rules of the service, I could claim the balance in money. This I overlooked when we were paid off, but, when my funds got low, it came into my mind. I proposed to some of the boys, who had a similar claim, to visit the purser. They only laughed at me, and said it would be of no use, for he would not pay it now we were discharged. Finding they would not join me, I went alone to the City Hotel, where the purser boarded, and inquired for him of the bar-tender. He came down stairs, and I spread out my complaint before him. He blus- tered and said I had no such claim allowed; I insisted, and told him it was my right, and he must pay it. Hoping to get rid of me, he told me to call again the next day. This I did, when he paid me nine dollars. This will show the reader one of the ways in which poor Jack is plundered, and that too by GENTLEMEN! 161
Page 162
162 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK The Boxer lay at the navy yard, whither we were conducted. The vacillation of a seaman's character was illustrated before we got on board, by one of our hands running away: another went a little beyond the first. He went on board, where he pretended to lose his hat overboard. Begging permission to recover it, he seized the rope which fastened the boat to the shore, dropped over the stern into the boat, and pushing up to the wharf, leaped ashore and made off. Such fickle-mindedness is not uncommon among sailors. We lost another of our crew in a more melancholy manner; he was in my mess, an Englishman by birth, who had just left a Brit- ish vessel to enter the American service. He was at work on the main yard, and by some means or other, losing his foothold, he fell. Unfortunately, he struck a carronade screw in his descent, which inflicted a terrible wound. The poor man suffered excruciating agonies for a short time, and died. We buried him on shore, in a plain coffin, without form or ceremony. Such are the contingen- cies which wait to hurry seamen to the grave! We were kept busily at work upon the brig for some time; after which our commander, Captain Porter, came on board. We soon found him to belong rather to the race of Fitzroys and Car- dens, than to that of Decaturs, Parkers or Nicholsons. He was inclined to tyranny and severe discipline. He soon gave us a specimen of his character in a most illegal act of punishment. We lay alongside the Hornet or Peacock, I forget which. It happened that her captain and most of her offi- cers were gone ashore' one day. Our captain accidentally saw one of her men engaged in some act of misconduct: instead of enter- ing a complaint against the man to his own officers, he ordered him to be seized up and severely flogged, notwithstanding the earnest entreaties of the offender for pardon. Why the captain of that vessel did not call Captain Porter to an account for this manifest 162
Page 163
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 163 invasion of his prerogatives, I never knew, for we put to sea shortly afterwards. An officer who would thus gratuitously vol- unteer his services to punish a man, must be a tyrant at heart. So at least we thought; while many misgivings, concerning the future, troubled our minds. As I was now rated an ordinary seaman, and not a boy, as heretofore, I had a station assigned me in the fore-top, instead of being a servant to any of the officers. I was also appointed to be one of the crew of the captain's gig. This made my lot one of more fatigue and exposure than in any former voyage; a proof of which, I very soon experienced. It being now late in the fall, the weather became very cold. One afternoon, the pennant having got foul of the royal mast, an officer ordered me to go up and clear it. I had no mittens on; it took me some time to perform my task, and before I came down one of my fingers was frozen. Thus it is, however, with the poor tar; and he thinks himself happy to es- cape his dangers with injuries so slight as this. The disposition of our commanding officer was still further revealed to my discomfort one day, while we were at work on the cables. Something I did, not happening to suit him, he gave me a severe blow on the head with his fist, not far from the place where I had been previously injured by the malice of the Malay boy. This unmanly blow occasioned me violent pains for several days. Since that time, I have felt a peculiar hostility to a practice, which is lamentably common in some schools and families; I mean that of rapping children on the head with a thimble, or with the knuckles, or anything else. The practice is the result of irra- tional passion, it is dangerous, and cannot therefore be too severely reprobated. If it is pleaded as necessary to enforce obedience and ensure respect, I know it will fail of such effects; it will only excite feelings of revenge, ill-will and malice. We now received sailing orders, and were very soon under 163
Page 164
164 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK weigh, bound to the Balize at the mouth of the Mississippi. On this passage we had further opportunities of learning the charac- ter of our officers. Although Captain Porter was stern and se- vere, yet he never used bad language. He always spoke with the utmost deliberation, but with such obvious indications of feeling, that we often trembled to hear his voice. Most of the other offi- cers were by no means novitiates in the art of swearing; but our sailing-master exceeded all the rest in this diabolical habit. When- ever it was his watch on deck, he exercised his voice, and practised the use of his choice and varied vocabulary of oaths, by hallooing and threatening the men continually. Whenever we had to set on sail, or to reef, he was especially diligent in these matters; min- gling with his curses, threats of the lash to those who were tardy, or whose movements did not exactly suit his taste. If such officers could only apprehend the profound contempt and bitter hatred with which they are regarded by their maddened crew, they would both tremble for safety, and despise their own littleness of soul. No really great man would enact the childish vagaries of a petty tyrant. There was one respect in which we were more annoyed in the Boxer than I had been in the Macedonian. In this latter ship, none but the captain could order a man to be flogged; in the Boxer, the lieutenant or the officer of the watch could send a man to the gangway, and order the boatswain to lay on with a rope's- end. This is a liberty which the laws of the navy should prohibit. A man should be secured the rights of a citizen, as well on the planks as on the soil of his country. True, it may be said, severity of discipline is necessary to good order in a ship. Not severity, but strictness, is what is wanted. Let a strict discipline be en- forced, with pleasant looks, and a " Hurrah my lads, bear a hand 1" and obedience will be more prompt and more perfect than when every order is accompanied with a "Damn you," and with an ex- hibition of the rope's-end or cat-o'-nine-tails. Common sense, as well as experience, will sustain this opinion. 164
Page 165
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 165 While these matters were passing on board, our little brig was dashing through the waves in fine style. We arrived at the Ba- lize, from whence we dropped down to Ship Island, where 'we took in water. A share of this severe task fell to my lot, for I was here taken out of the gig, and placed in the jolly-boat, to make way for a smaller and lighter lad in the former. We obtained our water by digging large holes in the sand, into which we placed our casks; the salt water, by passing through so much sand, would be so thor- oughly filtrated, that by the time it reached our casks it was fit for use. We then emptied it into ten-gallon kegs, called breakers, which we carried on our shoulders to the boat. This of itself was hard work, but we had certain tormentors on this island, which made it a task of much suffering. These were hosts of hungry, gigantic moschetos, which assailed our persons, and especially our naked feet, in flying squadrons, with a ferocity that indicated an uncontrollable thirst for blood. But even these were not our worst persecutors. They were attended by armies of large, yellow horse- flies, which our men called gallinippers. These merciless insect savages were always sure to attack the very spot we had rubbed sore, after the bite of a moscheto. Their bite felt like the thrust of a small sword; I still retain scars on my feet occasioned by these fierce gallinippers. This island bore marks of the battle of New Orleans; for we found various articles bearing the broad arrow and stamped G. R. We also remarked several mounds, which had the appearance of being large graves. We afterwards learned that this was the place where the British brought their dead, after their unsuccessful at- tack on the city of New Orleans. From Ship Island, we proceeded to New Orleans. This was a laborious passage; the current ran down the river with amazing force, bearing huge logs on its bosom, which, if suffered to strike either our bows or cables, were capable of doing much damage: to avoid them required no trifling exertions. Sometimes we endeav- 165
Page 166
166 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK ored to track her, or draw her along with ropes, as canal-boats are drawn by horses. But, as this brought us into shallow water, it was abandoned. The banks of the river displayed large numbers of alligators, luxuriating on the numerous logs that were fast in the mud. We made many attempts to get near enough to these scaly monsters to pierce them with a boat-hook; but they kept too sharp a look-out for us; invariably diving into the stream before our boat got near enough for us to strike them. But, if we failed in capturing alli- gators, we obtained an abundance of palm-leaf, from the shore, with which we furnished ourselves with hats. An instance of our commander's tyranny occurred while we were ascending the river. He had requested a seaman, named Daily, who was somewhat acquainted with the river, to act as pilot. By accident or negligence, he suffered the brig to strike the bot- tom, though without the least injury. The captain flew into a passion, ordered him to the gangway, and commanded the boat- swain's mate to lay on with his rope's-end. I did not witness this flogging, for the hands were not called up to witness punishment, unless administered by the cat-o'-nine-tails, but one of my mess- mates said that he received at least one hundred lashes. I saw him several days afterwards, with his back looking as if it had been roasted, and he unable to stand upright. He wore the same shirt in which he was flogged for some time afterwards. It was torn to rags, and showed the state of his back beneath. His object in wearing it was to mortify and shame the captain for his brutality. The severity of flogging with the rope's end is justy described in Mr. Dana's excellent book, called "Two Years before the Mast." Though not so cruel as the cat, it is nevertheless a harsh, degrading punishment. Our men used to say that " they would as lief be cut up on the bare back with the cat, as have back and shirt cut up together," as was poor Daily's. In truth, that flogging was 166
Page 167
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 167 both unjust and illegal. The articles of war provide, that not more than twelve lashes shall be given for a crime; but here one hundred were inflicted for no crime—for an accident, which might have happened to the best pilot who ever ascended the Mississippi. But though the captain was thus rendered amenable to the law, who would believe a poor sailor? Had he complained, it would doubtless have been to his own injury; for law, and especially naval law, is always on the side of the strong. This was not the only case of illegal flogging; but the justification of these excess- ive whippings, was found in the pretended existence of several crimes in the helpless offenders. On one occasion we were at our quarters, exercising in the various evolutions of war; now at our guns, and then going through the forms of boarding an enemy; now running aloft, as if in the act of cutting down our enemy's rigging, and then rushing below, as if to board her, firing our pistols, stabbing with our boarding- pikes, and cutting on all sides with our cutlasses. In the midst of this excitement, the movements of one of the men not happening to please the captain, he seized a cutlass and struck him a tremen- dous blow with its flat side; heated with passion, he let it glance as he struck, and the edge, entering the man's back, made a deep flesh wound, which was very sore a long time. Some of our men swore that if they had been the sufferer, they would have shot the captain dead on the spot! Are men of such brutal tempers fit to command a man of war? Is it not wonderful that mutiny is so rare under such a discipline? Such an officer might do to com- mand a crew of pirates, but not of freemen, such as Americans feel proud to entrust with the keeping of their national honor on the deep. On reaching New Orleans, our ship was overhauled and re- paired. We were sent on board the Louisiana, an old guard-ship, but had to cross the river every morning to assist in working on the brig. Several of our men, and myself among them, were quite 167
Page 168
168 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK sick here, owing to the free use of river water. The Louisiana had a number of men confined on board, for some crime; they wore chains round their legs, which were fastened to a large ball: the nature of their offence I did not ascertain. The effects of Captain Porter's severity were seen here in the loss of two of the crew. They belonged to the gig, and ran away while he was on shore. He made a strict, but unsuccessful, search after them. To deter others from a like attempt, or because he wanted an object on which to wreak his vengeance, he gave one poor fellow a cruel flogging for what, in sober fact, was no offence at all. The man was on shore, with some others, fixing the rig- ging, and, for some purpose or other, had walked a short distance from the rest, without the slightest intention to run away. But the captain wanted a victim, and this served for an excuse. Our brig being finished, we returned on board, and were soon back at our old station off Ship Island, where we found several other small naval craft. While here I saw a man flogged through the fleet, or, as this might more properly be called, the squadron. His was the only instance of the kind I saw while in the American navy, and, although his back was most brutally mangled, yet I do not think he suffered equal to those who are flogged through an English fleet. Still, the indignity and brutality are the same in kind, though differing in degree: a man should never be made to endure it. Not far from our station, at a place called St. Lewis' Bay, our captain purchased some land, and actually sent some of our men to make a clearing upon it, and to erect a log house. Whether this was a legal employment of the strength and skill of his men or not, I cannot decide; but it struck me as being a perversion of the national resources to his own private benefit. Why should a captain of a ship of war be permitted to employ the time and ener- gies of his men for private uses, while an officer of the government, 168
Page 169
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 169 » who should employ its funds for his own advantage, would be charged with embezzlement and fraud? The cases are precisely alike, except that one uses the public money, the other what costs that money. It is a fraud on the country, and an imposition on the men. A tragic event occurred at Lewis' Bay on the 4th of July, which occasioned a fearful sensation throughout the ship. I was sent thither that day in the launch. Feeling fatigued, I remained with another in the boat, which was anchored near the shore. After some time one of the crew, named Thomas Hill, came back for a pistol, for there were several in the boat, and deliberately charged it. My companion, an old Macedonian, named Cox, asked him what he wanted with a pistol. Hill, who was a very desperate fel- low, told him to mind his own business, or he would shoot him. Cox, knowing his character, thought it best to let this insult pass, supposing he was only going off to shoot a dog or snake, as the latter creature abounded there. Having loaded his pistol, Hill went off, and we thought no more of the matter. Presently a man came running down to the boat to inform us that two of our men were quarrelling. Just at that moment, we heard the report of a pistol: hurrying to the spot, described by our informant, we found a shipmate, by the name of Smith, bleeding on the ground, with a pistol-shot lodged in his breast by Hill. We gathered round him; in his agony he begged us to shoot him dead, for his suffering was not to be endured. Supposing he was dying, our testimony to his statement that Hill was his murderer, was taken on the spot. The victim was then removed to a suitable place to be taken care of; the next day he was carried on board the brig, and from thence to a sort of hospital on shore, where, after lin- gering a few days, he died. The murderer was seized and placed in irons on board the brig. He was afterwards removed to an- other ship, but what was done with him I never heard with cer- tainty; it was reported that he was pardoned. 169
Page 170
170 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK The cause of this fatal affray was that great instigator of crimes, Rum. The men were both under its influence; fired with its fumes, they lost all discretion, and commenced a quarrel: from words they proceeded to blows. In this struggle Smith had the advantage. Finding himself worsted, the other ran down to the boat for a pistol. With this, he returned and threatened to shoot his adversary. Smith demanded a pistol for himself, that, as he said, he might have fair play. At that instant his cowardly oppo- nent shot him! Had they both been sober, this tragedy would never have been enacted. Who can reveal the effects of alcohol? From this station we sailed to Tampico, where we lay but a short time, meeting with nothing worthy of remark, except that we found abundance of turtle in the river; during the day we could see their heads peeping up from the river in all directions. At night we used to send our men ashore to take them. This was done by tracking them on the sand, whither they went to deposit their eggs. We used to turn them over on to their backs, and drag them down to the boat. When alongside they were hoisted on board with a tackle; some of them weighing four or five hundred weight. They were then killed, and converted into a soup for the whole ship's company. The day after we left Tampico on our passage to Vera Cruz, I was looking out on the cat-head or starboard bow; seeing a sail, I shouted, "Sail ho!" when three other vessels hove in sight. These were all patriot privateers, so we were ordered to our quar- ters; but the vessels, discovering our character, kept clear of our guns, and we pursued our own course. About ten o'clock, A. M., we saw two more of these priva- teers, crowded with men, but mounting only one long gun. Mis- taking us for a Spanish brig, with money on board, they fired most lustily for us to heave to. We mounted short carronades, except- ing two long nines at the bows, so we bore down, all hands being 170
Page 171
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 171 at their quarters, to bring our short guns to bear upon them. Meanwhile we kept one of the long nines in full blast. I was sta- tioned at this gun; and it being my duty to sponge and load, I had to exert every muscle and strain every nerve, as, firing only one gun, it was necessary to discharge it as often as possible. Before, however, we came near enough to injure them, they discovered what we were, fired a leeward gun in token of friendship, and hauled off". If they had not, our men very elegantly observed, they would have found they had taken the wrong pig by the ear. We soon came in sight of the beautiful revolving light, which throws its friendly beams on the port of Vera Cruz, where, as in the former places, we lay a short time, and then, after visiting some other ports, we returned to our former station at Ship Isl- and. Here, however, we remained for only a brief period, be- fore we were under weigh for New Orleans, from which place we sailed to Havana. Such is the constant change kept up by men of war on a cruise. On this passage, I was placed in a position which exposed me to the punishment of the lash, though by a mere accident I es- caped. There was a habit indulged in among us, which is com- mon among all sailors at sea; I mean that of stealing a nap during our watch at night. Seated on the carriage of a gun, or on a shot- locker, with folded arms, we indulged in many a minute of sweet sleep, notwithstanding it was contrary to the rules of the ship. To prevent this as much as possible, the officer of the watch used to give the first man he caught napping, a handspike, with which he was compelled to walk the deck until he found another sleeper, to whom he was allowed to transfer his burden. One night I was caught dozing, and had to perform the consequent march with the handspike. After walking about, without success, in search of a sleeper, for some time, I thought it might be well to try my for- tune in the tops. Scarcely had I set foot on the top, before the officer below cried, " Fore-top, there!" 171
Page 172
172 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK "Sir?" "Aloft, and take in the fore-top-gallant sail!" This order caused every man to spring to his station. Sup- posing no one would pass before the mast, I stood my handspike upright against it. But there happened to be a man, by the name of Knight, dozing there; and when he was aroused by the command of the officer, he passed before the mast to get on to the starboard side. As sailors usually grasp something when aloft, he missed his hold of what he intended to catch, and seized my handspike, which of course fell. To my consternation, he fell with it. Tumbling out of the fore-top, he fortunately struck the foot-rope of the fore- yard, which broke the force of his fall. When he reached the deck, he came bouncing on a tall, stout Irishman, named Tom Smith, who, not imagining the cause of so rough and sudden an assault, roared out, as they both fell together on the deck, "Och! indeed you have killed me!" Here, however, he was mistaken; he was more frightened than hurt; and the innocent cause of his fright was able to resume his duties, after two or three days' respite. Very fortunately for my back, the unlucky handspike was not sus- pected; and my share in this serio-comic accident remained a secret within my own breast. It has often been a subject of surprise to my mind, that men so seldom fall from the tops, in the long night-watches they keep there. Often have I stood two hours, and, sometimes, when my shipmates have forgotten to relieve me, four long, tedious hours, on the royal yard, or the top-gallant yard, without a man to con- verse with. Here, overcome with fatigue and want of sleep, I have fallen into a dreamy, dozy state, from which I was roused by a lee lurch of the ship. Starting up, my hair has stood on end with amazement at the danger I had so narrowly escaped. But, not- withstanding this sudden fright, a few minutes had scarcely elapsed before I would be nodding again. How wonderful that more are not swallowed in the hungry deep! 172
Page 173
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 173 When the weather was rough, we were indulged with permis- sion to stand on the fore-top-sail yard, or on the top-gallant cross- trees; and, if the ship rolled heavily, we lashed ourselves to the mast, for greater safety. I can assure my readers, there is noth- ing desirable in this part of a sailor's duty. In whatever the pleasure of a life at sea consists, it is not in keeping a look-out from the mast-head at night. But the most disagreeable of all is, to be compelled to stand on these crazy elevations, when half dead with sea-sickness. Some suppose that sailors are never sea-sick after the first time they go to sea. This is a mistake; it is very much with them as it is with landsmen, in respect to being sick in a coach. Those who are of bilious temperaments, are always affected, more or less, when they ride in a stage or sleigh; while others are never sick on these occa- sions. So with seamen; some are never sea-sick, others are sick only when going out of port, while some are so in every gale of wind. Mr. Dana mentions some of the crew in his ship, who were sick, after being at sea two years, as they came to Boston. I was usually sick after laying some time in port, and have often stood at the mast-head when so sick that any landsman on shore, in a similar state, would think it hard if he could not lie abed. For a sailor, there is no allowance made for sea-sickness; he must remain at his post until it is time to be relieved. When we entered Havana, we came to anchor near the Span- ish fort, and fired a salute, which was courteously returned by the Spaniards. We had been here but a short time, before an Irish- man, named Dougherty, who had formerly deserted from the Spanish garrison, took it into his head to run away from our brig. This he accomplished by the assistance of some Spaniards, to whom he made himself known. Several others also left us, in this port, among whom was our swearing sailing-master; and a great deal was said about running away throughout the ship. The man who was flogged on suspicion at New Orleans, now endeavored to get off in 173
Page 174
174 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK reality. He strayed from the boat, but the officer, meeting him, endeavoied to force him back. He resisted; a struggle ensued; the officer fell to the ground, and the man called to the Spaniards to assist him. They left him, however, to fight his own battles; and the officer, having succeeded in getting the advantage, pre- sented a pistol to his breast, and he surrendered. For this offence, he was flogged most fearfully. In the British service, he would have been hung! It is certain death with them, to strike an officer. Hearing so much said about running away, and feeling almost as unhappy as when in the Macedonian, I began to think of it my- self. Sometimes I thought of trying to get into the Spanish gar- rison as a soldier; at others, of joining some of the numerous slav- ers that lay there, and in which our men said a good chance could be had. Sad chances, as they now appear, especially the latter; but I was young and ignorant. My feelings and the advice and opinion of my shipmates influenced me more than the dictates of an enlightened understanding. Resolving to make a trial, if op- portunity offered, I one day put on an extra shirt and drew on a second pair of pantaloons. When thus prepared, the officer of the deck happened to discover the two waistbands of my trousers; he questioned me with a suspicious curiosity. I told him as specious )a tale as I could invent on the spot; which was, that I had been mending my trousers, and, before they were finished, was called to go ashore in the boat, and not having time to put them away, had slipped them on. Fortunately, a needle and some thread which I had about me, confirmed my story and saved me from difficulty. It was pretty obvious, however, that the officer, though silenced, was not satisfied; for I was so closely watched, after that day, I gave up the idea of escape as utterly futile and hopeless. From Havana we returned to the mouth of the Mississippi, where we captured the Comet, a patriot schooner, on suspicion that the patriotism of her crew had degenerated into something less re- spectable. Harsh as it must have sounded in the ears of her offi- 174
Page 175
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 175 cers, we charged them with piracy; took possession of the vessel, and brought her hands, as prisoners, on board our brig. Her mas- ter's name was Mitchell; his crew were all stout, fierce-looking blacks, having all sorts of odd names, such as Monday, Friday, &c. She had a rich cargo, and contained large sums of money. It was reported that they had attacked an island somewhere in the Gulf of Mexico, and murdered its governor. We put them in irons, with sentries over them, who were charged to cut off their heads if they dared to lift them above the hatchway. I performed this duty a part of the time, parading round the hatch with a drawn cutlass; but they showed no symptoms of resistance, and were sent in their vessel to New Orleans. Their fate I never ascertained. This adventure cost one of our own crew, an Irishman, by the name of Tom Smith, a severe flogging. Smith was quite a moral philosopher in his way; though it is to be regretted that his philos- ophy was a little infected with lunacy. Its premises were certainly sound, but, unfortunately, its conclusions bore but little relation to the parent of whom they boasted. He taught that man was born to do good; that his chief good was the promotion of his own interests; and that, per consequence, he should help himself to whatever he could lay his hands on, without regard to the rights of others. With these views, Tom earnestly defended the rightful- ness of piracy, and could he have managed to get on board a pirate vessel, or even have contrived to wrest our own ship from the hands of her officers, and hoist the black flag, he would have cheerfully done so. But somehow, although he had made a number of disci- ples among his shipmates, our captain paid no manner of respect to his theories; for, when Tom, in consistency with his often de- clared principles, deliberately carried off a large sum of money from our capture, to his own quarters, the captain, who perceived the theft himself, ordered him to the gangway, and administered as many hard lashes, as if Tom had had no philosophy at all. But, although Tom Smith's philosophy did not save its unlucky 175
Page 176
176 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK advocate from the unphilosophic punishment of the whip, it never- theless exerted a baneful influence on the morals of our crew. Many of them were doubtless bad enough when they came on board; but a more complete school for the practise of iniquity never existed, than that on board our brig. Profanity, blas- phemy, lying, licentious conversation, and even a system of petty stealing, were prastised on a large scale. Many of the men were ripe for any crime within the power of depraved humanity to com- mit, and I have often thought that even the decks of a privateer or a pirate, could not lead one faster and deeper into the extremes of wickedness, than did the influence of our main deck. With what a voice do such pictures of sailor immorality, call for exertion on the part of an enlightened Christian community, in behalf of seamen? Where is the presence of the meek spirit of Christianity more needed, than on the decks of our merchant and naval vessels? Where wouJd missionaries and Bibles accomplish more than here? There is no sphere of Christian usefulness so important, so promising as this. F-very vessel in the navy should have its chaplain. Not one of your proud, fun-loving, graceless wine-bibbers, but a humble, devoted man, who would not think it beneath his dignity to mingle with the common sailors, as a pastor among the flock of his affections, moulding their rough, but sus- ceptible natures into the image of virtue, by the force of his pious example, and the influence of his effectual prayers. Then, in the merchant service, a species of itinerant missionary might be indefi- nitely useful. He might be sent out by a society, pledged for his support; and, by permission of the owners, sail in a ship on her out- ward passage. Arrived at her port, he might sail to another place, in a different ship, and then return home in a third. In this way, a score of devoted men of the right stamp, could exert an unparal- leled influence on the character of sailors. Vice, irreligion, pro- fanity, and insubordination, would presently flee away before the beautiful purity of religion, and our ships, instead of being desig- 176
Page 177
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 177 nated as floating hells, would become houses of God, arks of holi- ness, consecrated Bethels! Pray, Christian, that this desirable con- summation may be speedily attained; and be not satisfied with merely praying; add action to your prayers. Stir up your church to the claims of seamen! Give your money to assist in support- ing sailors' missionaries, Bethels, and the like. Make it the settled purpose of your heart, not to rest until you behold the sailor ele- vated to his proper position, which is that of a CHRISTIAN MAN!

177
This page contains an image.
Page 178
CHAPTER XII AFTER a short stay at the Balize, we put to sea once more, for the purpose, as it was understood, of touching at Ha- vana, and then returning to New York. This was a cheer- ful voyage; the idea of a speedy return to America, spread a feel- ing of exquisite delight over the whole crew, and converted the per- formance of our duty into a pleasure. One effect was, to set those hands, who were gifted with the talent, so highly prized in a man of war, of "spinning yarns," busily at work during every spare moment, when a group could be gathered to listen. Foremost among these intellectual time-killers was Richard Dickinson, a messmate of mine, a good-natured Englishman. He called him- self the son of Old Dick, by which epithet he was usually called. Dick's powers were now in great demand, and he exercised them to our universal satisfaction, but with how great regard for truth I cannot determine. It is probable, however, that truth entered very little into Dick's productions. He was a sort of off-hand nov- elist; all he cared for was effect, and where truth failed him, fiction generously loaned her services. So bewitching were Dick's sto- ries, that I used to long for the hour when we could lay in our hammocks and listen. My first salutation, when we lay for the last time in the port of Havana, was, " Come, Dick, tell us a yarn." "What is the use? you will go to sleep," he used to reply. "No I won't, Dick; I can listen to your yarns all night," was my usual answer. Dick would then begin some yarn, which, if not so interesting as the thousand-and-one stories in the Arabian Nights' entertain- ments, was at least as true to nature, and, in respect to its humor, 178
Page 179
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 179 might be compared to some of the sayings of that illustrious per- sonage, Sancho Panza, the renowned squire of the immortal Don Quixote; but, in spite of my promises, I usually gave notice of my condition after a short time, by performing a concord of nasal sounds, vulgarly called snoring, which would set Dick to swear- ing, and often put an end to his performances for the night. I need scarcely say, that these "yarns" were by no means favorable in their moral effects on the listener. They generally consisted in fictitious adventures on the sea and on the shore, plen- tifully interlarded in their recital with profane oaths and licentious allusions. When seamen become elevated, and are properly in- structed, these filthy stories will be superseded by reading good and useful literature, with an abundance of which every ship should be supplied by the benevolence of the Christian public. On the passage to Havana, Dick and myself fell under the displeasure of the captain. We were stationed one night in the fore-top, where we were comfortably dozing away the time. The captain was on deck. The officer of the watch hailed the fore-top. We did not hear him until the call was repeated two or three times. For this we were ordered below, and told by the captain that we should be flogged the next day before the whole crew. With this consolatory information we returned to our station, without the least inclination to sleep again for that watch. With a sort of philosophic desperation, I laughed and said, "Dick, which would you rather do—have your grog stopped awhile, or take a flog- ging?" Dick was very fond of his grog; so he replied, "Oh, I had rather they would stop my wind than my grog, and would sooner be flogged by considerable than lose that." I question, however, if he had been left to choose between grog and whip at the gang- way, whether he would not have altered his tone in favor of his grog. Still, his answer shows, how strongly sailors are attached 179
Page 180
180 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK to their beloved rum. I am happy to know that this regard is dying away, and that temperance is doing something among sail- ors. May it go on, until cold water is as popular in a man of war, as grog was twenty years since. We never heard, however, of our offence again. Dick was quite a favorite with the officers, and, except a blow in the head, given me by the captain, I had never been punished. Perhaps these were the reasons why we es- caped the gangway. At Havana we got a large amount of Spanish dollars aboard for some merchants in New York. These were smuggled from the shore. Our men were sent off in the boats, with their pockets and bosoms well stuffed with the precious metal; and in this way we soon got it all safely lodged in our hold, except that the cap- tain's servant, falling desperately in love with them, furnished himself with all he could carry, and ran away from the ship. After adding to our freight of dollars a fine supply of oranges, lemons, pine-apples, &c., we cheerfully weighed anchor and set sail for New York. We reached that port after a short and prosperous voyage; meeting with no incident, except that the cold weather caused us a little suffering, and enabled the purser to add a few dollars to the profits of the voyage, by supplying us with a lot of red flannel shirts. When I was on board the Siren, I was contented. The offi- cers were kind, the crew were peaceful and well-behaved; but in the Boxer, some of the officers were severe, and the crew corrupt, and I did not enjoy myself at all. Some said that in time of war the men were better treated than in time of peace; but though this may be true to a limited extent, yet I think the difference in these two brigs was owing more to the character of their respective offi- cers than anything else. Be this as it may, my experience in the Boxer had completely sickened me of man of war life, and I de- termined, if possible, to get free of it at once and forever. 180
Page 181
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 181 My station, as one of the crew of the jolly-boat, gave me frequent opportunities to accomplish my purpose. So, one day, at the solicitation of a shipmate, I resolved to make the attempt. Cruel treatment was my excuse; yet I have sometimes been ashamed of my course in this instance; and would heartily advise all boys in the naval service to stay their time out. We were suc- cessful in escaping; and as we had but little money, I therefore proceeded directly from the shore to a pawn shop, and there dis- posed of our pea-jackets, which were new, and for which the pur- ser had charged us ten dollars apiece. We obtained the pitiful sum of six dollars for the two. With this, we started in a hack, which was to carry us outside of the city. We then travelled hard all day, resting at night in a barn, where we suffered extremely from the cold. The next day we pursued our way towards New Haven. The day after, we were still on the road. This was the Sabbath, and we felt strangely at seeing the good people of the vil- lage, through which we passed, going to meeting. The foot- stoves, that the grave matrons bore in their hands, were things I had never seen before; so, to the great merriment of my com- panion, I observed that they were excellent contrivances to carry their books in to meeting! We reached New Haven on Monday evening, where we put up at a sailors' boarding-house for the night. Here my shipmate left me, and I proceeded alone to Hartford, begging my support by the way, for my money was by this time all exhausted. At Hartford I tried to ship on board some merchant vessel. Not succeeding, I strove to find some one to take me as an appren- tice to instruct me in the art of bootmaking, but with no better success. These repulses discouraged me. It was Christmas day, and the associations connected with the day—the merry-makings of my early boyhood—were anything but pleasant to me in my distress. The bell was tolling for the funeral of priest Strong, and it seemed as if the melancholy of the mourners fully accorded 181
Page 182
182 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK with my feelings, and was preferable in my mind to the spirit of rejoicing that prevailed among those who were keeping merry Christmas in merry mood. Perhaps, if they had invited me to partake of their cheer, I should have changed my opinion. As it was, with only five cents in my pocket, I wandered lonely and sad through the city. With a feeling of despair I stepped into a cellar for something to drink. They charged me five cents, and left me at once friendless and penniless. At the bridge, the toll- keeper demanded a cent. I looked at him fiercely, and told him I had nothing. He let me pass over toll free. Towards night, feel- ing tired and hungry, I endeavored to hire myself. But who would employ an utter stranger? I went to a number of houses, imploring a lodging for the night. With freezing coldness, I ex- perienced repulse after repulse, until my heart chilled with horror, with the fear of spending that long, cold night out of doors. At last I called on a kind-hearted Presbyterian, who gave me a sup- per, lodging and breakfast. Their morning and evening devo- tions were peculiarly interesting to me; for, excepting while a prisoner at the Cape of Good Hope, I had never listened to an extemporaneous prayer. The next morning I left this truly hospitable family, and pur- sued my inquiries for employment. Some asked if I could chop wood; others, if I knew anything about farming; and when I an- swered "No," they shook their heads, and I trudged on. Some- times I offered to work for my board, but, being a sailor, and hav- ing no recommendations, people were afraid to take me into their families. Still I pushed on. A man overtook me in the town of Coventry, and began a very interesting and faithful discourse about religion. I listened respectively; he took me home with him, where, although he was a deacon, he gave me some cider- brandy: but these were not the days of temperance. After this he sent me to Pomeroy's tavern, where he thought they would hire me. This application failing, he advised me to apply at the glass 182
Page 183
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 18H works which were a little distance from that place. With this ad- vice, I took leave of Deacon Cook, and proceeded towards the glass-houses. Before reaching them, however, night came. A family, who occupied a red house, received me, whose hospitality I returned by singing a number of sea songs. Early the next morning, I tried to get work at the glass-house, but though I was willing to stay for my board, they would not take me. Mr. Turner, the agent, very kindly gave me a breakfast, and then I left him, determined to get to Boston if possible, and go to sea once more. My situation was really a trying one: my only clothing was a blue jacket and trousers; shoes more than half worn out, and a lit- tle tarpaulin hat stuck on the back of my head, in genuine sailor fashion.21 Mittens and money were alike far off from my fingers, and friends were as scarce as money. People, too, seemed afraid of a sailor; and this, in addition to all my other troubles, rendered me an object of suspicion. At such times, I assure my young reader, that the picture of a kind mother and a good home, are but too faithfully presented to the mind, filling it with a thousand vain and useless regrets. No young man need desire to be in the out- cast prodigal condition in which I stood, in the depth of that cold winter. When I reached the town of Mansfield, I called at the house of a Mr. Nathaniel Dunham; the kind manners and friendly lan- guage of whose lady I shall never forget. She told me that if I was honest, Providence would shortly open some way by which I could live. Her words fell on my ear like a prophecy, and I left 21 If the reader wishes to know why seamen wear their hats on the back of their heads, let him put his hat on as usual and ascend a ladder. He will find himself unable to look up until he places it on the back of his head as a sailor does. Sailors wear their hats thus, because they could not otherwise ascend the rigging of a ship. 18S
Page 184
184 A VOICE FKOM THE MAIN DECK the house, confident of some favorable turn in my affairs before long. At Mansfield Four Corners, I inquired of Dr. Waldo, who, with several others, sat under a piazza, and afterwards of a Mr. Edmund Freeman, for employ. They gave me no encour- agement. Persevering, I at last met with a Mr. Peter Cross, who, seeing my sailor garb, asked what ships I had sailed in. Hear- ing me mention the Macedonian, he said, "There is a man here whose name is William Hutchinson. He was taken in her. Do you know him?" "Yes," said I, after a moment's recollection; "he was our armorer's mate." Of course, I lost no time in seeking for my old shipmate. After crossing various lots, and getting vexed and perplexed for want of proper direction, I reached his comfortable homestead. He did not recognise me at first, on account of the great altera- tion a few years had made in my size and appearance; but, when he did recall me to his recollection, with the generous frankness of a sailor, he offered me all the hospitality and assistance in his power. A good supper was speedily spread; and then, seated be- fore his ample fireplace, sparkling and crackling with a cheerful blaze, we recounted our adventures. He had wandered into Con- necticut, and married a very respectable woman. They now owned a house and some land, and were in tolerably comfortable and thriving circumstances. With such discourse, we talked away the better part of the night, when the old tar showed me my cham- ber, archly observing that " my bed would not rock much." The next morning, he said I should not leave him until I was provided for in some way or other. Through his influence, a Mr. James, his brother-in-law, employed me to work in his cloth-dress- ing establishment. As I was ignorant of the business, and was not really needed, my board was to be my only compensation. My new situation soon grew delightful to me, and I felt hap- 184
Page 185
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 185 pier than I had ever done since I left Bladen. My time passed very pleasantly, especially my evenings, when the neighbors came in to hear me spin sea yarns and forecastle songs. Some of the young men of the "baser sort " judged me to be a fit instrument to act Samson for their enjoyment, in the house of God. So they invited me to attend the meetings of the Methodist Episcopal church in that place. But they greatly misjudged the character of seamen; who, as before remarked, usually pay respect to the ordinances and ministers of religion. I attended the meeting, but not to make sport. The result of this ill-designed invitation on myself will appear hereafter. The winter months fled, and the spring found me unfurnished with means co-extensive with my wants. Determined to remain ashore, if possible, I hired myself to a farmer for my board. In the evenings I braided straw hats, and thus obtained a scanty sup- ply of clothing. A little incident, illustrative of the thoughtless playfulness of sailor character, may not be displeasing to my young readers. Whoever has seen a perfect novice undertake to guide an ox- team, may form some idea of the ludicrous adventures through which I passed during my agricultural novitiate with these horned animals. Perseverance, however, gave me some little control over our team, when, as fate would have it, my employer "swapped" them for another pair. When they came home, after some little hallooing and whipping, I succeeded in "yoking" them; then seizing the goad-stick, with as much dignity as ever Neptune wielded his trident, I mounted the tongue, (which I called the bow- sprit,) and with the ladders rigged up at both ends I gave the word of command to my team. They, however, showed signs of mutiny, and, taking to their heels, bore me off in trumph. This was sport indeed; there I stood, my head and shoulders passed be- tween the front rigging, laughing as if my sides would burst, while rakes, forks and boards were playing leap-frog, at the tail of my 185
Page 186
186 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK cart, and my master's boy was half frightened out of his wits. At length the angry voice of my master roused me from my sportive mood; he did not relish the rough usage his farming tools were re- ceiving, and coming up with my horned steeds, he speedily stopped their speed and my sport. I need only add that his rebukes made me more careful afterwards. When the haying season commenced, I left my first employer, and obtained the sum of eight dollars per month, and board; the wages, however, in accordance with the true Yankee method of making money out of everything, were to be payable at the village store. This change led me into a situation which proved another link in the chain, which ended in my conversion to God. The son of my employer died; he was about fourteen years of age; in com- pany with a pious member of the Methodist church, I sat up one night with the corpse. With the faithfulness of a true Christian, he improved the occasion by seriously conversing with me on the great concerns of immortality. His discourse, together with the funeral services, had a very softening and gracious influence on my feelings, though the only present, practical effect was a more punc- tual attendance on the services of the sanctuary. Towards winter, I went to live with Mr. Joseph Conant, to learn the business of filing augers and steelyards. Here my ac- quaintance was considerably enlarged, as several young men were attached to the establishment. Among them was one who made a profession of religion. As is usual among the young, we were de- voted triflers; and he, to my astonishment, was as jocose and merry as the rest. Ignorant as I was of religion, his conduct appeared strangely inconsistent; I wondered he did not converse with me about my soul. One day I took him aside and faithfully ex- pressed my views of his conduct. He acknowledged his guilt. Afterwards we attended meetings in company, and he was faith- ful in speaking with me about the things that belonged to my sal- vation. He urged upon me the importance of giving myself up 186
Page 187
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 187 to God at once, and affectionately invited me to attend class-meet- ing. My mind was seriously inclined, but I could not yet venture upon so close an intercourse with the people of God. One Sabbath evening, my friend, Ela Dunham, who had dealt so faithfully with me, when we watched together over the corpse of Orson Kidder, asked me, "When do you intend to set out and seek religion?" I replied, somewhat evasively, "Any time." "Well," said he, " are you willing we should pray for you, and will you go forward for prayers to-night?" To this I replied, that I would think of it. The meeting proved to be intensely interesting. My desire to express the in- ward workings of my mind, grew strong. Of the forms and prac- tices of Christians in revivals, I was altogether ignorant, having never witnessed a conversion in my life; still, it seemed to me highly proper to declare my feelings in the presence of Christians, that they might give such instructions as were necessary to lead me into the right way. With these views, I determined to rise and speak, though the evil one whispered, " Not yet! not yet!" in my ears. Just as I stood up, some one, not seeing me, began to sing; this, I took to be a suitable excuse for further delay, and sat down, heartily wishing that no one had seen me. Fortunately, my friend Dunham had witnessed my movement. He requested them to stop singing, because a young man wished to speak. Thus en- couraged, I told them I was then nineteen years of age, and it seemed to me too much of life to spend in sin; that eternity was a solemn idea, and I desired them to tell me how to prepare to enter upon it with joy. They proposed to pray with me. We then all kneeled down together. Most fervently did they pray for the divine blessing to rest on the stranger youth, bowed in penitence before them, and most sincerely did I join my prayers with theirs before the throne of God. After prayer, they sung the following 187
Page 188
188 A VOICE FROM.THE MAIN DECK familiar lines, which I insert both for their intrinsic excellence, and for the pleasantness of the associations connected with them in my own mind. "Alas, and did my Saviour bleed! And did my Sovereign die! Would he devote that sacred head, For such a worm as I? O the Lamb! the loving Lamb! The Lamb on Calvary, The Lamb that was slain, Yet lives again, To bleed and die for me." Although these words were very sweetly applied to my mind, I did not feel any evidence of the favor of God that night. The next day, with a strong purpose to live for eternity, I entered on my daily tasks. Religion was the theme of my thoughts and dis- course; during the day, a sweet calm came over me; peace and joy filled my soul. It was the pardoning love of God applied to my guilty spirit. Ah! thought I, this must be religion; but desiring to be right, I went to my employer and communicated my feelings to him. His reply rather damped my joy. He was a moralist; morality, he said, was all-sufficient to secure a man's well being both in this life and in that to come. This, however, did not satisfy my mind. To me it seemed certain that genuine repentance, and a change of heart, were all-essential to my happiness; and these, if not already mine, I determined to possess. The remarks and experience of the Methodists, at their prayer meetings, were greatly blessed to my comfort. Gradually the light broke; the day-star shone. Peace, like a river, filled my breast; joy, as from an unfailing fountain, bubbled up within me; love animated my affections; by day and by night I sang the praises of 188
Page 189
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 189 God, and the society of Christ's dear people seemed precious in- deed to my soul. I thought this sweet frame would last forever. I determined it should, so far as my efforts were necessary for its continuance. Alas! I knew not my own heart: a dreary wilder- ness state was before me, and I, like many an unwary soul before me, heedlessly stumbled into its gloomy shadows. By a sudden change in the condition of my employer, I was led to seek employment in Ashford. Here, in the shop of Mr. Giles Stebbins, I was surrounded by many light-minded, trifling young men. Falling into the same snare for which I had re- proved a professor before I was converted, my peace and calm were lost, every evidence darkened, and the wretchedness of a backslider in heart filled my soul. This apostacy lasted several months, when, through the love and long-suffering of a gracious God, I was once more restored to a state of salvation. Since that time, though I have not gained all that is desirable, and that is offered in an abundant gospel, yet I have been trying to stem the torrent of iniquity, which runs through the earth, and striving to make my way to the port of Glory. The next fall I walked eighteen miles to a camp-meeting in Thompson, Conn., the first I had ever attended. Though the scene was novel, I soon took a deep interest in the services; espe- cially when informed that a sailor was going to preach one even- ing. This sailor was no other than the well-known Rev. E. T. Taylor.* His text was in Philippians iv. 19: "But my God shall supply all your needs;" which he handled in his usual happy and eccentric, powerful manner. I had never before seen a religious * Edward T. Taylor (1793-1871). From 1800 to 1817 he was a sailor. In 1819 he became a Methodist clergyman. In 1827 he served as chap- lain on the Macedonian, which took supplies to the famishing Irish peo- ple. He was a pastor in Boston during the rest of his life, was known as " Father Taylor," and was a most successful worker, particularly among seamen.—(En.) 189
Page 190
190 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK sailor; to hear one preach, therefore, in such forcible and effective style, was to me a source of unutterable delight. Nor were the listening masses before the stand, who hung with intense eagerness on his lips, less pleased than myself. They broke out into loud expressions of praise to God for his wonderful mercies. "This," said the speaker, "is but a drop from a bucket! What will it be when we drink from the mighty ocean itself?" At this meeting I saw sinners yielding to Christ with tears of sacred penitence, for the first time in my life. Never in all my life had a spectacle more sublimely beautiful met my eye. I do not believe the world affords a more grateful sight than that of a sinner weeping and repenting before his Creator. The parting scene of that meeting left an indelible impres- sion on my memory. Even now I see that affectionate company marching in regular and joyful procession before the stand, each shaking hands, as he passed, with the preachers. Still I feel the tears chasing each other down my cheeks, as I grasped the hand of the sailor preacher so firmly, that it seemed I should never let it go; while he, seeing my emotion, observed, " Never mind, brother; we are on board of Zion's ship now." I had stood tearless alike amidst the wailings of the tempest and the roar of the battle, but here, among a few Christians at a camp-meeting, my heart was soft as a woman's, and my tears flowed like rain. Does the reader inquire what made the difference? I answer, it was the love of God. When I returned home, one of my first acts was to unite my- self with the Methodist Episcopal church: an act which has led to the formation of many pleasant friendships, and which has proved the source of much religious enjoyment to my soul. My mind often reverts, with a mixture of joy and sorrow, to the fate of the three hundred men and boys who sailed with me in the Macedonian, when I left England for the first time. Of 190
Page 191
A VOICE FKOM THE MAIN DECK 191 these, alas! how many perished in battle! The rest were scat- tered over the four quarters of the globe. Beside myself, I never heard of but one of them who embraced religion. This was John Wiskey, one of our quarter-masters. He settled in New London, and when he met in class, for the first time, he said he blessed God he had got out of that floating hell, the Macedonian. He after- wards removed to Catskill, on the North River, where he main- tained a good Christian reputation. My shipmate, who received me so hospitably in Mansfield, became unfortunate, lost his property, and died, but not before I hadthe satisfaction of offering a prayer at his bedside. The little fellow who escaped from the Macedonian with me met with a melancholy fate. This I learned one day from the fol- lowing paragraph in a newspaper: "Drowned, out of a pilot boat, off Charleston Bar, Mr. James Day, one of the crew of His Brit- annic Majesty's late frigate Macedonian." Thus have I been signally favored—a brand plucked from the fire. For this special favor I hope to render my heavenly Father the eternal tribute of a grateful heart. 191
Page 192
CHAPTER XIII DURING the various scenes, dangers and wanderings of these years of my youth, I had not forgotten the home of my boyhood; and, now that I was becoming somewhat settled in my prospects, I wrote an affectionate letter to my mother. After a delay of several months, I received two letters in reply, one from my mother, and the other from my sister. That from my mother is inserted in this narrative, for the purpose of exhibiting to the young reader, who may fancy that his parents feel no very great interest in his welfare, another instance of the deep, undying love of a mother's heart. Bladen, December 23, 1818. My dearly beloved Child:— I cannot describe the sensations I felt when I received a letter from your dear hands. It was the greatest pleasure I have enjoyed since you left me. I have never been sorry but once since you left, and that has been ever since; but I hope the Almighty has ordered it all for the best. I have never forgotten to pray for you morning, night, and many times in the day, though I talked very little about you to any one, because I did not wish to make any one else uncomfortable. But that God, who knows the secrets of all hearts, sees how sin- cerely thankful I am because he has been pleased to hear my prayers that I might hear from you again; for I was fearful I never should. But now I have great hopes that the blessed Lord will protect you, and spare our lives to see each other again. 192
Page 193
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK My dear child, you have not stated how you came to be separated from the crew when the ship was taken, nor how you have been employed since. You must be the best judge whether it will be safe for you to venture home. It would be a great pleasure for me to see you, but if there is danger of bad consequences, on account of your having been in the service against your country, and if any bad consequence should follow your coming home, it would make me more unhappy than I have ever been yet. If there is no danger, I should be very happy to have you come home and learn a trade; as, thank God, I have it in my power to do something for you; and nothing shall be wanting to make you comfortable, that I can do. You say it may be one or two years before you come; but pray come the first opportunity, as you will be gladly re- ceived by us all. If it is a want of money that prevents you from coming, and you cannot work your passage, perhaps you can get one by showing the captain of some ship my letter, and he may depend on being paid as soon as you arrive in England.* If neither will do, send me word; and if there is any place in London where your passage money can be paid, I will pay it there for you. You are right in supposing yourself twenty-two years of age on the nineteenth of March (1819). Your sister Maria is twenty. She is grown a fine young woman; I am happy to say is very steady and thoughtful; though not of a very strong constitution. She is at service in London. She has written to you, and I hope you will receive her letter with this. ***** I hope, my dear child, you will not fail to come home. Send me all the particulars of your life, at the first oppor- tunity. I am afraid you have gone through a great deal 198
Page 194
194 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK of trouble and hardship since I saw you. But the mer- ciful Lord has been pleased to bring you through the whole, and He is able to carry you through more, if you put your trust in Him. It gave me great comfort to hear that you are so well disposed, as I am sure you are, from the spirit of your letter; it was more pleasure to me than if you had gained all the riches in the world. I wish I was as well acquainted with religion as yourself; but I will try to make a better use of my time, and should it please God to let you come home, I hope you will be the means of great good to me. There are a number of Methodist meetings about us. The .people who live in our yard are very strict ones. I never disliked the Methodists; I think they have a great gift of religion. I sent your letter to Lady Churchill, formerly Lady Francis Spencer. Both Lord and Lady Churchill were glad to hear from you, and are your well- wishers. The Duke and Duchess of Marlborough are both dead. Blenheim is much altered for the worse, since his son has become Duke. Lord Francis, that was, makes a very good master; and when the Duke died, he left Blenheim. His country house is in the forest. Your father is his carpenter in the timber yard; he has filled this situation six weeks. He comes home every Sat- urday; and next spring they are going to place me and the children in a lodge near him. We hope to have the happiness of seeing you there. ***** It is eight years the twelfth of last July, since you left us. * * * Your father, brothers and sisters all join with me in hearty prayers to Almighty God, that his blessing may be upon you; and if it is his blessed will, we shall see you again; if it is not, we must be resigned to 194
Page 195
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 195 what is fitting for us, and pray that we may all meet in heaven, where all tears shall be wiped away. That God may bless you, my dear child, is the sincere prayer of Your ever loving mother, SUSAN NEWMAN. Notwithstanding the earnestness of my mother's spirit, breathed out so ardently for my return in this letter, I dared not risk myself on British soil. Her expression of sorrow, if bad con- sequences should ensue, had its weight in determining me to re- main; but a conversation with the celebrated Lorenzo Dow, who had recently returned from his English tour, settled the question. He said he had seen four men hung, who, like me, had been in the service of some other country, after deserting from their own. This was quite sufficient; for, much as I longed to visit the homes of my childhood, I had no disposition to do it with a gallows sus- pended over my head. I therefore wrote my mother, that, not having a regular discharge from the navy, it would be best for me to continue where I was; but I begged them to seriously think of emigrating themselves; since my father-in-law, being an excellent carpenter, could do well in New England. Alas! it was not for him ever to consider of this proposition; for, when my letter ar- rived, they were performing the sad obsequies of death over his breathless corpse. A prevailing fever had terminated a life of fifty-seven years, after a sickness of two weeks. My mother, now a widow the second time, after twelve years of pleasant union with her last husband, thought it unfitting, at her time of life, to ven- ture across the ocean; and therefore all my plans for collecting my relatives on American soil, were blasted in the bud. Perhaps, after following me through the changes of my life at sea, the reader may feel a little interest in knowing how I suc- ceeded as landsman. He has seen me escaping the breakers that met me on my first approach to the shore; and now, if his patience 195
Page 196
196 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK be not entirely exhausted, he may pursue my fortunes a little fur- ther. He left me, when my episode about home led him away from the thread of the narrative, busily at work as a filer of steel-yards, at Mansfield, Conn. From thence, I returned to Ashford, where I continued a year or two. At last, doubting the stability of my employer, and fearing lest what he owed me might be lost, I took up the whole in the shape of a wagon and a stock of steel-yards; then, purchasing a horse, I travelled from place to place to sell them; and in this manner got into a business which I have fol- lowed more or less ever since. After acquiring, by economy and diligence, a few hundred dollars, I opened a small store in Mans- field, with the intention of leading a still more settled life; though about that time my mind was strongly exercised with a desire to devote myself to the religious benefit of seamen. My sense of unfitness for so great a work, at last prevailed; and I proceeded with my plans of worldly business. The days of which I write were those on which the bright star of temperance had scarcely shone. Ministers, deacons, Christians, all used the deadly drinks. Was it surprising, therefore, thai I, but so short a time before a rum-loving sailor, fell into the com- mon current, and became a rumseller? No, it was not strange! but it was a strange, a glorious display of restraining grace, that prevented me from being drawn into the snare I was thus thoughtlessly spreading for the poor drunkard. But even in those early days of temperance, I was not without my trials of mind in respect to the unholy traffic. Once, vhen at Hartford, making purchases for my store, of which rum formed no inconsiderable article, I accidentally heard of a lecture on tem- perance, to be delivered at Dr. Hawes's" church. This was the 22 Rev. Joel Hawes (1789-1867), for forty-six years pastor of the First Con- gregational Church. 196
Page 197
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 197 first discourse on the subject I ever heard. The speaker excited a deep interest in my mind, as he told of the origin of rum, its pri- mary costliness and rank among medicines, of the growth of dis- tilleries, the consequent decline in its price, and the attending spread of drunkenness. So deadly a plot against the peace of the world, he said, could only have been contrived in hell. This discourse fell like a light on some dark opaque; it illu- minated my understanding, disturbed my conscience. No sleep vis- ited my eyes that night. Duty said, " Send back your team with- out rum in the morning." Fear of men, public opinion, interest said, "No. Every other store-keeper sells it, and so may you." The latter argument prevailed. Conscience was rebuked; the rum went to my store. Shortly after this struggle, I married a member of the Metho- dist church in Hartford. We removed to Somers, Connecticut, where I continued to sell rum, though, as before, with great cau- tion and. with much inward struggling of mind. At last I could hold out no longer, and in spite of the example of ministers, (some of whom often drank, though sparingly, at my house,) in spite of the sneers of the scornful, and of the fear of loss to my trade, I gave it up! It was for the poor, untaught sailor to set the exam- ple of sacrifice to the store-keepers of Somers. Three others imi- tated me in a short time. Not to me, but to the grace of God, be the glory of my decision and resolution. I can assure the mod- ern rum-seller, whose lashed and tortured soul still cleaves to the rum barrel and the toddy stick, for the sake of the profit, that I have ever regarded that act as among the best of my life. Finding my present residence ill adapted to a successful prosecutor) of business, I closed up my concerns, and removed to Wilbraham, Mass., the place of my present abode; a pleasant town, but which is rendered more so by the very superior opportunities it affords for the education of children, in its most excellent and flourishing academy. 197
Page 198
198 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK Here my life glided pleasantly and quietly along, affording no incidents worthy of special record. Happiness presided at my domestic board, prosperity accompanied my temporal enterprises, and religion reigned as the ruling genius over the whole. My ways were committed unto the Lord, and he directed my steps; for which I praise him with my whole heart. In this delightful manner several years fled away; when, my business having led me, on one occasion, to New York, I heard that my old ship, the Macedonian, was in port. Animated with that regard for an old ship, which always inspires a genuine sea- man, I went on board. She was so altered, I scarcely recognised her. Change, with an unsparing hand, had remodeled the decks and cabins, so that I felt somewhat lost where once every timber was familiar. This was rather a disappointment; however, I stood on the spot where I had fought in the din of battle; and with many a serious reflection recalled the horrors of that dreadful scene. The sailors, on witnessing the care with which I examined every thing, and supposing me to be a landsman, eyed me rather closely. Seeing their curiosity, I said, " Shipmates, I have seen this vessel before to-day: probably before any of you ever did." The old tars gathered round me, eagerly listening to my tale of the battle, and they bore patiently, and with becoming gravity, the exhortation to lead a religious life, with which I closed my ad- dress. They appeared to be very susceptible of religious feeling; as, indeed, sailors are generally. Should any doubt this fact, let them hear the Rev. Mr. Chase, in New York, or Rev. E. T. Tay- lor, in Boston, in whose usually crowded houses of worship, the face of the rough, weather-beaten son of the ocean may be seen bedewed with penitential tears; especially at the church of the lat- ter gentleman—than whom none know better how to adapt dis- course to a sailor's soul. During the flight of these years a constant correspondence 198
Page 199
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 199 had been kept up between me and my mother. She had constantly urged me to revisit my native land. To remove the last obstacle, she addressed a letter to Lady Churchill, to ascertain if I might safely return. She sent her the following note, the original of which is still in my possession: Lower Brook Street, Nov. 7, 1821. MRS NEWMAN,— I consulted my brother William upon the subject on which you wished for ad- vice, as neither Lord C. nor myself could undertake to answer your inquiry; and I am glad to hear from him the following explanation in reply: "There is noth- ing to prevent Mrs. Newman's son from coming home; for when the war was terminated, he was safe, even if he had entered into the enemy's service; but he will of course forfeit the pay and any prize money due to him." • • • • • I am, much yours, F. CHURCHILL. This note relieved me of all fear, but now it had become no small undertaking for me to go to Europe. To go alone would be very expensive; but to take my family, consisting now of a wife 'and three children, was much more so. Hence, I put it off year after year, still writing and begging them to visit me. When the late lamented Dr. Fisk* was in England, he visited my mother and brother, and related to them some of the facts in my life, which he had often heard me mention. She sent me two silver table spoons, which had belonged to my father, by the Doctor's hands. My mother wrote about this visit of that " great, good man " with evi- dent satisfaction. * Rev. Wilbur Fisk (1792-1839), one of the greatest Methodists America has known. At last, I received a letter from home, which decided me to undertake the often postponed and long delayed voyage to my 199
Page 200
200 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK native land. This letter stated that there was a young man in Al- bany, with whose friends they were all well acquainted, and that he was about to visit his mother. I found this gentleman, whose name was William Warrington, and agreed to join him with my family in his intended voyage. This agreement made, we set about making preparations for the undertaking. If the reader desires to know the events of that visit, he must consult the ensu- ing chapter.

200
This page contains an image.
Page 201
CHAPTER XIV WEIGHED down under a pressure of despondency, aris- ing partly from temporary illness, and partly from the greatness of the enterprise I had undertaken, and whose event was so uncertain, I left Wilbraham on Thursday morning, June 3d, 1841. A pleasant passage, by the way of Springfield and Hartford, brought us into New York early the next morn- ing. By the following Monday, the 7th of June, we were all snugly stowed in a state-room of the second cabinf on board the splendid packet-ship, George Washington, bound for Liverpool. Before we sailed, however, I was fleeced of seven dollars by the cook of the ship. As passengers in the second cabin, we had the privilege of furnishing ourselves with provisions. For the sum just mentioned, the cook had agreed to do all our cooking at the galley, insisting, however, on being paid in advance, because, he averred, several passengers, on former occasions, had obtained his services and failed to pay him; besides, he wanted to leave all the f It will be apropos to here quote a letter from Thoreau to his sister Sophia, describing Emerson's quarters on board the packet-ship Washington Irving, on which he sailed from Boston in 1847: "I went to Boston to see Mr. E. off. His stateroom was like a carpeted dark closet, about six feet square, with a large key-hole for a window. The window was about as big as a saucer, and the glass two inches thick—not to mention another skylight overhead in the deck, of the size of an oblong dough- nut and about as opaque; of course it would be in vain to look up if any promenader had his foot upon it. Such will be his quarters for two or three weeks," etc. Such were first-class accommodations six years after Leech made his voyage, with a certainty of being at least twenty days cooped up thus, and pos- sibly seventy-five, as we shall see actually occurred on his return.—[Ed]. 201
Page 202
202 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK money he could with his wife. These arguments were, of course, unanswerable, and I paid him the sum demanded. Judge, then, of my surprise, when, a few minutes before we hauled off, the cap- tain engaged another cook; the first having suddenly made himself among the missing. Should the reader ever have occasion to voy- age, he may profit by the remembrance of this anecdote. We then hauled off into the stream; towed by a steamboat, we soon cleared the harbor of New York. Sandy Hook speedily lay behind us; the pilot wished us a pleasant voyage, and away we dashed into the wide Atlantic, buoyed up by the confidence of the hope that a few weeks would behold us safely landed on the shores of dear old England. The details of a voyage across the Atlantic have been so often laid before the public by travellers, that they have now lost most of that interest which they would possess were they less familiar. I shall not, therefore, detain the reader with the particulars of my passage, except to quote the experience of one day from my jour- nal. Saturday, June 12th. Went on deck early in the morning; found it very warm. We passed two ships on the same course with ourselves. I saw a rainbow on our starboard quarter, which reminded me of the old saying among sailors, "Rainbow in the morning, sailors take warning." It was then blowing a stiff breeze from the west. All the sails were up, studding sails out be- low and aloft. The wind increased during the morning, with rain. We soon had heavy thunder, with sharp lightning; the weather growing squally, we took in our studding sails. Passed another ship; wind increasing with violent rain. One o'clock, P. M. Sailors have plenty to do to shorten sail. Furled top-gallant sails, reefed mizzen topsail, fore topsail, and main topsail. We are running before the wind like a race-horse, at the rate of twelve knots an hour. 202
Page 203
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 203 Two o'clock, P. M. More thunder and lightning, which threatened vengeance on our poor ship. The lightning is very sharp; we have no conductor up; it plays all around us, and, as it strikes the water, it hisses like red-hot iron. Several of the sailors felt a shock in descending the rigging, especially the first and sec- ond mates. We expected it would strike us every moment, but a kind Providence protected us. The sea runs very high, and the ship flies about as if crazy. We have two men at the helm, who can scarcely keep her right; it seems that she will pitch under every moment. Eight and one-half o'clock, P. M. Sea still rolling heavily; we have shipped several heavy seas. Nine o'clock, P. M. Wind has shifted, and the weather is clearing off. During the whole of this gale, many of the passengers were much alarmed, and some of them spent their time in praying and crying to the Lord. How strange that men will leave their eter- nal interests to an hour of danger, and forget them again the mo- ment it passes away! The first Sabbath of our life at sea, by permission of Captain Barrows—who, by the way, was a very gentlemanly, kind com- mander—I held a religious meeting on the quarter or poop-deck. My audience contained all the cabin passengers, with most of those in the steerage, the captain and his mates, together with most of the crew. I told them I was not a parson, but I would talk to them as well as I could. After singing and prayer, I spoke from Jonah i. 6; alluding, among other things, to the late storm, and exhorting them not to trust to storm religion, but to become the followers of God from genuine principle. My audience favored me with profound attention. Whether they were benefitted or not, the great day must determine. It was in this same ship that the eloquent Robert Newton returned to England. He favored 203
Page 204
204 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK her crew and passengers, every Sabbath of the voyage, with one of his excellent and powerful discourses. The following Sabbaths, owing to the weather and adverse circumstances, I contented myself with distributing tracts and with discoursing personally with the passengers and crew. On the 26th of June, we saw the Irish coast on our weather- beam, and on the evening of the 27th, we came to an anchor off Liverpool, after a short passage of twenty days. Here, a steam- boat came alongside, bringing several custom-house officers, who came on board, and carrying our cabin passengers ashore. The next morning we hauled into the magnificent docks of this cele- brated city of commerce, where our baggage was landed under the spacious sheds that surround the wharves. From thence it was conveyed, in small carts, drawn by donkies, to the custom-house for inspection. This tedious process over, the passengers sepa- rated, each bound to his respective home; for, having passed the ordeal of the custom-house, every man is left at full liberty to go whither he pleases. I and my family proceeded to a tavern, con- trasting, as we went along, the dark, dingy aspect of Liverpool, everywhere discolored by the fumes of coal-smoke, with the light, cheerful aspect of our American cities; and giving the preference to the latter, notwithstanding my English prejudices. The next morning we all took seats in the railroad cars for Stafford, some seventy miles distant from Liverpool. After passing through the tunnel, under the city, of more than a mile in length, we emerged into a beautiful country, adorned on all sides with antique buildings and rural scenery. These passed before us like the scenes in a panorama, and, by ten o'clock, A. M., we reached the stopping-place, a short distance from Stafford. Here we were literally in danger of being torn asunder by the eagerness of two hackmen, who, as we were the only passengers left at the depot, were especially zealous for our patronage. A police offi- 204
Page 205
A VOICE FBOM THE MAIN DECK 205 cer, one of whom is stationed at every depot on the road, speedily relieved us from their importunity. Stepping up, he asked me which man I would employ. Pointing to one of them, the other dropped my baggage, and in a few minutes, we were at the door of my brother-in-law, Mr. William Tills. Although I had not seen my sister for thirty years, yet, no sooner did she see me, than, throwing her arms around my neck, she exclaimed, "Oh, my brother!" I need not add, that our re- ception was cordial, and our stay with them characterized by every trait of genuine hospitality. The town was alive with the bustle of an election; flags and streamers were floating over every tavern-sign and public build- ing. Men, women and children crowded the streets, flushed with the excitement of party rivalry, while the continual pealing of the bells added a vivacity and liveliness to the scene, of which an American, who has never heard the merry ding-dong of a full peal of bells, can form no adequate conception. By five o'clock that afternoon, the polls closed, and the ceremony of chairing the suc- cessful candidates took place. First came a band of music, play- ing lively airs; next followed the members elect, richly dressed, with ribbons on their hats, and seated on chairs wreathed with flowers and ribbons, and surrounded with banners bearing various devices. These chairs were borne on men's shoulders, who pro- ceeded through the streets, amid immense cheering from the crowds who followed, and from the ladies and citizens, who ap- peared waving their handkerchiefs from the windows; the mem- bers, meanwhile, bowing, with their hats in their hands, until they reached the spot where their chaises waited to convey them to their respective homes. The sight was one of great interest to a stran- ger, and I advise every American who visits England, by all means, to witness an election day if possible. We remained with my brother-in-law about a week, visiting 205
Page 206
206 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK the various places and buildings whose antiquity or public charac- ter clothed them with especial interest. The town itself contains about eleven hundred inhabitants, and is the shire town of the county of Staffordshire. Its chief business is the manufacture of shoes. Among its ancient buildings, are the remains of a baronial castle, whose moss-covered battlements insensibly conduct the meditations of the beholder back to the days of feudal grandeur and knightly chivalry. St. Mary's Church is also a venerable Gothic structure, of solid masonry, whose walls have withstood the storms and changes of about ten centuries. They were about to expend £10,000 in repairing the dilapidations of time. I heard one discourse from the curate, and was especially delighted with the grandeur and sublimity of the music from its magnificent organ, as it pealed along the aisles of the time-worn building, with an effect never witnessed in our smaller and more modern struc- tures in America. Here also is the county prison, modelled, in most of its ar- rangements, after the state-prisons of America. It contained five hundred prisoners. A lunatic asylum and a hospital, or infirm- ary, for the poor, are found among the products of its benevo- lence: the former contained three hundred unfortunate occupants. The poor-house is a large commodious building, constructed of brick and stone, surrounded with large airy yards and gardens. It has also yards or courts within its walls, used as play-grounds for the children. The order within was excellent; every room looked remarkably neat and clean; the children were comfortably clothed, and wore an air of satisfaction and contentment. The whole house was under the control of a governor and matron who were subject to the inspection of the board of overseers, chosen by the people. One excellent rule of the house struck me as being very useful: it provided for the admission of poor travellers to a supper and lodging; requiring them, if dirty, to undergo a thor- ough ablution and to change their linen. In the morning two or 206
Page 207
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 207 three hours' work was exacted as payment, and they were suffered to depart. The house had its teacher and chaplain; and alto- gether I thought that a great improvement had taken place in the poor-laws of the country. Having been so long away from England, everything pecul- iarly English struck me with almost as much force as it would a native American. Hence, my feelings revolted at the sight of the innumerable beggars and vagrants, who crowded the streets. Italians, with their organs, white mice, or monkeys; poor bare- footed children, with their baskets of matches; and, worse than either, houseless families imploring a crust for their half-naked little ones, with many a tale of sorrow and woe, were sights which greeted my eye and pained my heart every day. A sad spectacle indeed, and one which robs the lustre of the British crown of many a brilliant ray. The true glory of a people is their internal pros- perity, and not the extension of their territory. The fifth of July renewed the excitement of the day I ar- rived. It was the time appointed for the county election. Simi- lar scenes to those before described took place, accompanied with excessive drunkenness. Every tavern, and the number seemed endless, was crowded, mostly with the laboring classes, who were spending their hard-earned pence, for foaming tankards of Eng- lish ale, the favorite beverage of John Bull, and one of the greatest hindrances to the progress of the temperance cause in that coun- try; though it is hoped that the triumphs of tee-totalism will ulti- mately overcome this national love for John Barleycorn, as beer is humorously called in the old song. After spending an extremely pleasant week in Stafford, we bade adieu to my affectionate sister and her husband, and, aided by omnipotent steam, we soon reached the great manufactory of Britain—Birmingham. From thence we took stage for Wood- stock, subject, however, to the incessant exactions of the host of 207
Page 208
208 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK waiters, guards and coachmen, that constantly assail the traveller in England, with a request to be "remembered" for every little service rendered. The country through which we rode was de- lightful; all nature wore her greenest, brightest garments; the roads were level, and as smooth as the most thorough Macadamiz- ing could make them. Soon after seven in the evening, the stage drew up at the Marlborough Arms, the very hotel from whence I started thirty years since to go to sea. The first object that ar- rested my eye, was the revered form of my mother, waiting on the sidewalk, eager to embrace her much-loved, but long-absent son. Springing to the ground, I felt myself locked in her fond embrace. That was a moment of exquisite enjoyment, both to me and to my mother. Though deeply moved, she maintained a calm dignity of manner. In a few moments, she was showing the way, with the agility of a young woman, leading a new-found grand-child in each hand, to her residence, which was close at hand. Very soon we were all seated round the well-loaded board, the happiest family party in the world. Though it afforded me and my family great pleasure to visit scenes round Woodstock and Bladen, which had been familiar to me in my boyhood, yet, as the description would only prove tedious to the reader, it is omitted. A brief account of our visit to Ox- ford, so celebrated for its university and colleges, may not be un- interesting. Oxford contains nineteen colleges and five halls. Of these, we visited only Christ Church and Lincoln colleges. Christ Church is the largest college in Oxford. We were forcibly struck with the magnificence of the octagonal tower, which is over the principal gateway. It has a dome top, and is ornamented in the Gothic style, from designs by that renowned architect, Sir Chris- topher Wren. It is also remarkable as containing the celebrated bell, known by the familiar name of " Great Tom," and weighing 17,000 pounds. It is 7 feet 1 inch in diameter, 6 feet 9 inches t 208
Page 209
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 209 high, 6J inches in thickness. I got under this massive piece of metal, and found abundant room to move about; by standing on the clapper I could reach the top over my head. This is the larg- est bell in England; though Russia contains several of a much larger size. I also gratified myself by a survey of the splendid picture galleries and the spacious library, the former containing some of the finest specimens of painting in the country, and the latter a large and valuable collection of books, manuscripts, prints, coins, &c. I made inquiries of our attendant for the room in which Charles Wesley studied while a member of this college; but, al- though quite communicative on other subjects, he manifested a pe- culiar sensitiveness on this; and I declined pressing the question. After quitting the college, happening to pass the residence of the Wesleyan minister, Mr. Rodgers, I called upon him, and related to him how the porter avoided my questons. He smiled, and said that they regarded the Wesleys as dissenters, and would therefore do them no honor. Mr. Rodgers was extremely obliging; he con- ducted us over his beautiful chapel, and then bore us company to Lincoln college, where he pointed out the room in which John Wesley studied when a member of this institution. He also showed us the other localities of Oxford, made sacred to me by their association with the person of Wesley's grandfather, the preaching of the Wesleys themselves, and the studies of Dr. Coke, the great missionary hero of the Methodist church. He then led us into Broad street, to the consecrated spot where Latimer, Ridley and Cranmer sealed their faith by endur- ing a martyr's death. Three stones mark the spot where their ashes fell; and never did I feel a holier feeling than that which thrilled my heart, while I and my family stood on those time-worn stones: the spirits of the martyrs seemed to hover around us, breathing the same high, religious determination into our minds 209
Page 210
210 A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK that filled their own bold and daring spirits. That moment amply repaid us for all the toil of our journey home. The following Sabbath I attended the chapels of the Wesley- ans at Woodstock and Bladen, and in the evening had the pleasure of saying a word to my old Bladen associates, in the prayer-meet- ing. After receiving the utmost kindness, hospitality and evidences of friendship from my family and friends, I took leave of them forever. Many of the neighbors, with my mother, accompanied me to Woodstock. There I wished her adieu, and when the coach whirled away, she stood following us with her eyes, the last of the company, until a projection of the park wall hid us from each other. Who could forbear a tear in such a moment? I could not, and therefore suffered the big drops to roll down my cheeks at will. There is a luxury in such grief. That evening beheld us rolling through Hyde Park into the city of London, where I tarried a few days with my brother, by whom I was very cordially entertained. Here also I found sev- eral cousins, in prosperous circumstances whose kindness contrib- uted not a little to my enjoyment. Having visited St. Pauls, the Museum, Madame Tussaud's magnificent collection of wax fig- ures, and other curious and remarkable places, I took a trip to Walthamstow, the former residence of my aunt Turner. This good lady was dead, and almost forgotten by the people; her twenty-two children were all either dead or wandering, the neigh- bors knew not whither. Alas for the mutations of time! A walk of two miles farther on, brought us to Wanstead, my birth-place. Here everything seemed natural, though great changes had passed over the people since I lived there, a thought- less child. My common school teacher and my Sunday school teacher had gone to their spiritual destiny. My aunt was yet alive. My brother asked her if she knew me. Peering through 210
Page 211
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 211 her spectacles, and summoning up the imagery of the past, she at length called to mind her former protege, and clasped me to her arms, with evident gratification. It occasions melancholy feeling to see the ravages of time on the persons and places one has not visited for years! After a hasty visit to that noble home for the worn-out sailor fat Greenwich, and a glance at the arsenal at Woolwich, I returned to London. We next visited the City Road Chapel, built by the exertions of the great Wesley himself. The sexton told us that when that wonderful man held the collection plate, one Sabbath, it was thrice filled with gold by the enthusiastic generosity of the congregation: a striking example of his personal influence over his hearers. After examining the chapel, I walked over the parsonage adjoining, and while standing in the room where, with his dying lips, the immortal founder of Methodism exclaimed, "The best of all is, God is with us," I felt inspired with his great spirit, and mentally resolved, like him to laboriously live, that like him I might triumphantly die. From this sacred chamber I visited the tombs of Wesley, Clarke, Benson, Watson, Cooper, and other illustrious men of the departed army of faithful warriors in the cause of Christ; and, as I stood over their ashes, my heart said with Peter on the mount of trans- figuration, " Master, it is good for me to be here!" Crossing the road into Bunhill fields, I stood before the tomb- stones of the celebrated Dr. Isaac Watts, and the less learned but equally renowned John Bunyan. Here the wicket gate, the wan- derings of the pilgrim, the land of Beulah, and the river of death passed vividly before my mind's eye, until, overcome with a rush of powerful feeling, I wept and walked away, a better man than when I entered those solemn resting-places of the glorious dead. The time allotted for my visit having nearly expired, my mind began to look towards the country of my adoption, filled with a 211
Page 212
212 A VOtCE FROM THE MAIN DECK strong desire once more to tread its free soil. Strong as is the love of home, it was tiot strong enough to induce a preference in my mind for England. America had become the dearer of the two. Indeed, I saw so many unpleasant things amidst the grandeur and pageantry of the rich, that I often felt disgusted. Such hosts of street beggars, such troops of poverty-stricken children, such a mass of degraded laborers, such enormous taxation, made me shrink from bearing any part of so great a burden, and desire to link my future destiny with the rising fortunes of America. How the la- borer of England lives, with such low wages, and such high prices for the staple commodities of life, is above my comprehension. Meat was from twelve,to twenty-four cents per pound; tea from one to two dollars; coffee from twenty-five to forty cents, and other things in proportion. To this add the intemperate habits of the poor, and how they live becomes a problem I know not how to solve. Yet, with all this poverty and woe, taxation is laid upon the public with merciless severity, to furnish means to maintain the splendor and fatten the minions of royalty. First, they have to pay the annual interest of eight hundred million pounds, then come the enormous salaries of the monarch and the satellites of the throne. The queen, for her private purse, has £150,000; the queen dowager, £100,000; Prince Albert, £30,000; the Lord High Chancellor, £20,000; the Bishops, an average of £20,000 each. Be- sides these, follow sinecures and pensions innumerable, until the resources of the nation are preyed on by the throne, with the unsat- isfied appetite of the grave—taking all, and still crying, "give, give!" I felt happy, when beholding these things, that Provi- dence had, after many trials in early life, cast my lot in America. On the 25th of August, we all sailed from London, in the cabin of a fine ship, commanded by Captain Eldridge, bound for Boston. The particulars of our stormy and tedious voyage would neither gratify nor amuse the reader, and they are therefore omit- ted. Suffice it to say, that the Atlantic passage could scarcely be 212
Page 213
A VOICE FROM THE MAIN DECK 213 more unpleasant than it was to us; but, by the care of divine Provi- dence, after being seventy-five days at sea, exposed to every variety of wind and weather, deprived of religious advantages, and sur- rounded only by the ungodly, we safely landed, and found com- fortable quarters at the United States Hotel, in Boston. From thence we preceded to Worcester, and then to Wilbraham, where we were hailed with joyful congratulations by our neighbors, who had begun to mourn us as among the lost at sea. Most gratefully did we all unite with the minister, the following Sabbath, in a thank-offering to Almighty God, for his goodness in preserving us from the dangers of the stormy sea. Thus, courteous reader, I have conducted thee through the mazes of my changeful life. Should the facts detailed in these pages lead thee to feel more interest hereafter in the elevation of the sailor, my labors will not have been in vain; and should the re- cital of my Christian experience induce thee to embrace the same Saviour, who has become my redemption and sacrifice, I shall joy- fully hail thee, when we meet together in the port of eternity. To my brothers of the sea, let me add one word. Yours is a life of danger, of toil, of suffering. Few men care for your souls; but Jesus regards you. He watches you in all your wanderings; he woos you to be his! Will you not be persuaded, by a fellow- sailor, to heed his voice. O sailor, " Turn, turn, for why will ye die!" Go! rest in His bosom, who says to you, "Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest." 213
Page 214
Blank page
Page 215
Blank page
Page 216
GEN. EPHRAIM DOUGLASS
This page contains an image.
Page 217
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES A FRAGMENT OF HISTORY WITH THE JOURNAL OF GEORGE McCULLY (HITHERTO UNPUBLISHED) AND VARIOUS LETTERS OF THE PERIOD. BY CLARENCE M. BURTON NEW YORK WILLIAM ABBATT (Being Extra No. 10 of THE MAGAZINE OF HISTORY WITH NOTES AND QUERIES.) 1910
Page 218
Blank page
Page 218
PREFACE THE two journals that are incorporated herein were written shortly after the close of the war of the American Revo- lution, and narrate in homely style the events of a trip to Detroit, the object of which was to notify the Indians of the terms of peace. The narrators tramped many miles through an almost path- less wilderness on a fruitless errand. Their lives were constantly in danger from many sources. Their most dangerous enemy was the savage, for he was on the lookout for scalps and could not know that the errand of the travelers was one of peace. The two men were not impelled by the love of adventure or the excitement of ordinary travelers in undertaking this expedition. Nor were they actuated by any promises of pay for their troubles and trials, for it was many years before Congress authorized the payment for their services, and the men had both passed from among the living when a pittance was finally doled out to their descendants. They were going in order to perform a duty imposed upon them by Congress. That they were unsuccessful is not greatly to be won- dered at, for the British officers in Canada were much disconcerted to find that peace had been declared, and did not propose to admit of defeat by the Americans until compelled to do so. The greater wonder is that Douglass and McCully traveled through the north- western wilderness and met the various Indians and Indian tribes, and returned unharmed to their eastern homes. The early history of the Northwest Territory is not well known. But few travelers have left a record of their journeys through its woods, and a hearty welcome is always extended to any new document that is found on the subject. The journals are therefore of more than ordinary historical importance as they add a little to the scanty documentary records of that time and locality. C. M. Burton. Detroit, Mich.
Page 218
Blank page
Page 219
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES NEGOTIATIONS for peace between the United States and England had been in progress during the early part of 1782 and the preliminaries were settled in the latter part of the same year. Although these negotiations were not officially made known to the contestants in America, there was a general idea that the war was about to close, hostilities were lessening, and even preparations for future hostilities were being quietly aban- doned or held in abeyance to await future events. The western Indians had long been taught by the British that the war was carried on partly for their benefit, and that if the Americans succeeded, the savages would soon be driven from their hunting grounds to make way for the advancing army of Ameri- can colonists. Now that peace was about to come, the British authorities saw the difficulties that would ensue when the Indians were informed of it. They would feel that the English had deserted their in- terests and had abandoned their cause. The influence exerted by the British over the Indians was never stronger than just at this time, when the war was about to close. They had used every argument in their power to prove that they were the friends and the Americans the enemies, of the Indians. • They had led the Indians on their murderous incursions into the settlements of New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio. They had made presents to the Indian warriors and had assisted in providing for their fam- ilies in their absence on these incursions; they had gathered the warriors in council many times at Detroit, Sandusky and other places, and had treated them as equals and as a part of the military force of the British Army. 219
Page 220
6 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES It was not a difficult matter, at this time, to collect a numerous body of Indians to swoop down on some frontier settlement, murder or carry off the inhabitants, plunder the farms and burn the houses. The Indians were more than willing to assist in conducting this sort of warfare, and made many of these incursions on their own account and without asking the consent of the military officers at Niagara or Detroit. In 1782 the great rendezvous for the Indians, and the depot for the distribution of the Indians' presents, was Detroit. Next in importance in this work was Niagara, while Michilimackinac followed, and places of lesser size and importance were frequently used as distributing points and places for holding Indian councils. Major Arent Schuyler DePeyster was in command at Detroit and Major Allan MacLean had charge of Fort Niagara. There were British soldiers stationed at both of these posts, and there were from time to time many American prisoners brought in by the Indians, and by the British soldiers or rangers. Where pris- oners were held by the Indians they were sometimes bought by the English, and were then conveyed, with other prisoners, to Quebec, to be liberated or exchanged. Sometimes the prisoners preferred to remain at Detroit, rather than return to their former homes, and some of the present people of that city are descendants of these prisoners ransomed from the Indians. The news of the pending settlement of the difficulties between America and England was known to the Indians early in 1783, and the depredations in the western settle- ments seemed to increase both in number and virulence. The attention of Congress was called to these troubles by the frequent pleadings, petitions and recitals of Indian murders, from people in Pennsylvania and New York. It was the opinion of some members of Congress that the Indians would cease their depredations as soon as they were in- 220
Page 221
EPHRA1M DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 7 formed that peace had been declared, and upon being assured that they would not be disturbed in their hunting grounds. A resolution was passed, May 1, 1783 directing the Secretary of War to take measures to inform the Indians of the declaration of peace.1 In pursuance of this resolution, General Benjamin Lincoln, Secretary of War, appointed Ephraim Douglass a commissioner to carry the news of peace to the Indians, and directed him to go among them as far west as Detroit if necessary, on this errand. Douglass chose for his companion on the trip, Captain George McCully. They, together with one servant, undertook the expe- dition narrated in the annexed journals. Upon completing the journey Douglass made an official re- port to Congress, then at Princeton, N. J., and a copy of the report was subsequently printed in the Pennsylvania Archives.2 The journal of Captain McCully has never before been printed. It is a fragment only, as will be seen, but gives more details, in some matters, than does the Douglass report. It was filed in the Pension Office by Ann McCully, the widow of George McCully, with her petition for a widow's pension, and has only recently been known to exist. As importance is attached to the character of the men who made this perilous expedition, practically unprotected, through a wild country inhabited only by hostile Indians, such facts as can be collected regarding them are given herewith. Ephraim Douglass was born about the year 1749.8 James Veech, author of the Monongahela of Old, evidently had the pri- vate papers of General Douglass and wrote with authority. He 1 Journals of Congress, Vol. 4, page 218. 2 Penn. Arch., Vol. 10, page 72. 8 The original spelling must have been Douglas, as that is the Scotch form. / 221
Page 222
8 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES was unable to ascertain the birthplace of Douglass. His sketch, (page 149), is the most complete in existence and many of the facts herein given are taken from that work. See also Old West- moreland, p. 190. These private papers have since been placed at the disposal of the writer hereof, but they contain no mention of Douglass' ancestry. His father was a Scotchman named Adam Douglas. Ephraim had one brother, Joseph, and one sister, who married a man named Collins. She left three sons. It is probable that Ephraim was born in one of the southern states (see his letter of Feb. 11, 1784) and that he went to Pittsburg about 1769, working among the officers in the fort there, and that he was subsequently engaged in the Indian trade with Richard Butler,4 and Devereux Smith. Matthew Elliot, who ran away from Pittsburg as a suspected loyal- ist, at the commencement of the Revolutionary war, was an inti- mate acquaintance of Douglass and met him again, under changed circumstances, as narrated in his journal. Douglass was at Pitts- burg in 1774 at the time Lord Dunmore sent John Connolly to that place to organize the County of Dunmore. Connolly organ- ized the County and changed the name of Fort Pitt to Fort Dun- more. Elliott, Simon Girty and his brothers, Alexander McKee, John Connolly and others, who took an active part in this first movement in the great war, all escaped to Detroit to be within the British lines, and most of them lived and died in or near that place. Douglass was engaged in all kinds of work during his first years in Pittsburg. He was a carpenter by occupation, but was fairly well educated in English and acted as clerk, blacksmith, gun-smith, stone-mason, bookkeeper, scrivener and shopkeeper. He engaged in trade with the Indians, and acquired a knowedge of their languages sufficient to act as interpreter. It is said that about this time, on one of his trading trips into * General Richard Butler who was killed at St. Clair's defeat, 1791. 222
Page 223
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 9 the Indian Country, his canoe was overturned in deep water and he was nearly drowned. Upon reaching the shore he was so ex- hausted as to be unable to proceed, and concluded he must die there in the wilderness. He wrote his final words upon a piece of bark, as follows: "I have lived doubtful, but not dissolute. I die undetermined, but not unresigned. E. DOUglass/' m:- 3 He recovered, however, and continued his Indian trade, some- times alone and at other times in partnership with other men. When the Revolution broke out and it became necessary to raise troops in Western Pennsylvania, the Eighth Pennsylvania Regiment was formed with iEneas McCoy (Mackay) as Colonel, George Wilson, lieutenant Colonel, and Richard Butler Major, and on September 23, 1776 Congress appointed David McClure chaplain and Ephraim Douglass quartermaster." Just two months later, November 23, 1776, the regiment was ordered to march at once to Brunswick, New Jersey, or to join Washington wherever he might be.8 As the regiment was raised for the purpose of defending the western frontier, some of the officers and soldiers were reluctant to march from the neighborhood of their homes. Lieutenant Colonel Wilson wrote that he hoped the regiment would get over this trouble "by leaving ower trifeling officers behind who pretend to have more witt then seven men that can rendar a reason." They did not begin their march until January 6, 1777 and then endured great hardships, marching and sleeping in the snow. Both 5 Amer. Arch., 5th series, Vol. 2, pages 7 and 1SS8. • Penn. Arch., 2d series, Vol. X, page 641. 223
Page 224
10 EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES the Colonel and Lieutenant-Colonel died on the way, and Daniel Brodhead became Colonel, and Butler Lieutenant-Colonel. Douglass was here transferred and became aide-de-camp to General Benjamin Lincoln. Acting in this capacity he was at Bound Brook, New Jersey, with a small detachment of troops, where he was surprised and taken prisoner by the British on the morning of April 13, 1777.7 The history of the next three and one-half years of his life is the same as that of the other American prisoners of war. They being liberated. England refused to acknowledge them as entitled were treated as rebels and not as prisoners, and for a long time subjected to every possible indignity, with little prospect of ever to the rights of prisoners of war, and would not permit them to be exchanged for British soldiers, who were captives. Indeed there were many more prisoners among the British than among the Americans, and the chance for exchange was very remote when exchanges were permitted.8 However, Commissary-General Abraham Skinner finally ef- fected an exchange and Douglass was set at liberty November 7 On April 13, Generals Grant and Mathew, with two battalions of Hessians, and other troops, marched from New Brunswick, New Jersey, and surprised a large body of rebels stationed at Boundbrook, seven miles from that city; commanded by General Lincoln. The rebels were put to flight, one hun- dred were killed, seventy-three were taken prisoners, among whom was one of Lincoln's aides-de-camp, one captain and one lieutenant. The prisoners were brought to New York and lodged in gaol. Moore's Diary of the Revolution, 416. See also, "Battle of Bound Brook," an address by T. E. Davis. Penn. Mag. of Hist., and Bio. XVII, 165, Prisoners of War at Gravesend. See a note on the Battle of Bound Brook in Notes and Queries (Egle) for 1896, page 175, and another in the same series for 1899, page 238. * A partial list of these prisoners, including the name of Ephraim Douglass, is given in "An Historical Pay Roll" printed in Notes and Queries (Egle) series 4, vol. 1, page 204. 224
Page 225
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 11 27, 1780," though it is possible he was paroled a short time previous to that date. He returned to Pittsburg, where he remained for some time, apparently only employed in attending to his private affairs and recuperating his health. On August 29, 1781, he wrote as follows, from that place. "I am here a mere spectator of the affairs of this Country, and in some respects consider myself very happy in being no more involved in them than I represent myself."10 This letter is very interesting and gives the news of the departure of Clark's ex- pedition from Pittsburg, which was originally intended as an enterprise against Detroit. It also contains the information of a proposed attack on the Western settlements by the British and Indians from Detroit, under the leadership of Douglass' old friend, Matthew Elliott. 9 Saffell, Records of the Revolution, 822. Penn. Arch., 2d series, Vol. X, page 652. While still a prisoner his position in the army was changed to the Ninth Pennsylvania Regiment where he appears as lieutenant from June 2, 1778 to January 26, 1779. From this regiment he was transferred to the Fifth Pennsylvania, January 17, 1781. (2d series Penn. Arch. X, 676.) Richard Butler was colonel of the Fifth Pennsylvania from June 7, 1777. The following is an extract from a letter of Washington to Lincoln, dated October 25, 1777: "I observe, by the terms of General Burgoyne's capitu- lation, that an exchange of prisoners may probably take place; if so, the number of officers taken in his army will liberate all ours. In that case Mr. Douglass, your aide-de-camp, will soon be redeemed, but if this ex- change should not take place, you may depend that Mr. Douglass shall be called for as soon as it comes his turn, for I have made it an invariable rule to give a preference to those who have been longest in captivity." Am. His. Rec, Vol. 1, page 519- Sparks', Washington, Vol. 5, page 116: Doug- lass was promoted from ensign to lieutenant, January 27, 1779, while he was a prisoner of war.—Army Register 22. There is a tradition in the family related by his grandson, Ephraim Douglass King, that when Douglass was a prisoner and after his repeated attempts to be exchanged had failed, he one night dropped overboard from his prison ship and swam ashore to freedom. He always spelled his name Douglass. 10 Letter to Gen. James Irvine, Penn. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., Vol. 4, page 247. 225
Page 226
12 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES Veech says that in the winter of 1781, Douglass was sent by the Government into the Indian country on some secret mission, and as evidence of that undertaking, he quotes from a letter of General Irvine dated July 10,1782, written to Douglass, as follows: "I had heard of your magnanimous enterprise in penetrating alone in the Indian country—that you had been absent and not heard from for some months, that the time fixed for your return was elapsed and that your friends about Pittsburg had given you up as lost."" The events of the fall and winter of 1781 in Western Penn- sylvania are detailed, in part, in the accounts of the Indian murders and the sending out of Colonel David Williamson who, with his troops, committed that atrocious murder of the Moravian or Chris- tian Indians, known as the "Gnadenhutten Massacre," in March 1782, and in the preparations for the attack of Colonel Crawford on Sandusky. It is said that Colonel Gibson, at Pittsburg, learned of the proposed attack of Williamson on the Moravian Indians and sent an express to warn them of their danger. The messenger came too late, and the horrible and uncalled- for murder of innocent Indians who had taken no part in the con- troversy, followed the coming of Williamson. It is possible that Douglass was the messenger who was sent out by Gibson on this errand of mercy." In July 1782 Douglass wrote to General James Irvine giving an imperfect account of the destruction of Hannah's Town (July 13, 1782) and a short time later in the same month, in a second letter on the same subject, he gives a more detailed account of this affair. In this letter he says that his "health is as usual, neither 11 The Monongaheld of Old, 149. 12 The sending of this messenger is mentioned in Crawford's Expedition against Sandusky, 38, but the name of the messenger is not given. Gibson was in command at Fort Pitt., 326
Page 227
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 13 to be boasted of nor much to be pitied. My greatest misfortune is the want of something to employ the restless, active mind—even the savage consolation of wandering thro' the lonesome but hos- pitable woods is denied me by the frequency of the Indians' visits to this wretched country.18 The letter refers to earlier letters that are nowhere printed, but from the contents of this one it might be supposed that Doug- lass had not fully recovered from his confinement in prison at Gravesend, and was resting and recuperating, not engaged in any undertaking. The letters that follow show the number of Indian incursions was on the increase. The burning of homes and villages by the Indians and the carrying off of families, either to be tomahawked or sold as captives as best suited the circumstances of the captors, became more and more frequent. Plans were prepared for the invasion of the Indian country from Fort Pitt, and Northumberland,14 but were stopped by direc- tion of Washington, upon assurances of Guy Carleton (Lord Dor- chester) that no further war parties would be sent out from the Western posts.15 It is possible that it was the intention of the British to dis- courage the Indians from further warfare, but they took no very earnest measures to prevent them from continuing their depreda- tions. They frequently assembled them in council at Detroit and gave them food, clothing and arms to keep them firm in their adherence to British interests. If the Indians were not assisted 18 This letter is dated at Pittsburg, Julyj 26, 1782. Penn. Mag. of Hitt. and Bio. 1. 44. AJ part of the letter is printed in the Washington-Irvine Correspon- dence, page 388. There are several other letters from Douglass in this volume. 14 Penn. Arch, (first series) IX, 630. 15 Id. 641. General Irvinej was directed to stop the western expedition. 227
Page 228
14 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES by the British they carried on the war independently and their incursions continued as formerly;18 certainly their arms and am- munition came from British sources. Douglass was appointed Intendant of Prisoners and drew pay for house rent, forage and rations from September second 1782 till April thirtieth 1783. In November 1782 the preliminary treaty of peace between the United States and Great Britain was signed at Paris, and within a short time the news was brought to America. As Indian affairs did not grow better, the Pennsylvania Council sent the following letter to the delegates in Congress: "April 4, 1783. "The particular circumstances of this State render an attention to Indian affairs indispensably necessary; and as the present time seems in several respects favorable for obtaining a final and advantageous settlement of all differences, we earnestly desire that you will use your utmost exertions in Congress, to prevail on that honorable body to adopt without loss of time the most17 effectual measures for making peace with all the Indian nations." As Congress took no action on the subject of this letter, the Council of Pennsylvania wrote again regarding it on April 29th as follows: "Council wrote to you some time ago desiring that you would endeavor to have the most effectual measures speedily adopted by Congress for making peace with the Indian nations. Having lately received advices that about forty inhabitants of this State have been killed and taken by them, and having good reason to be assured that these hostilities will be continued 16 Penn. Arch. IX, 657. There are many reports here of depredations and mur- ders in Pennsylvania. "Penn. Arch., X, 25. i 228
Page 229
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 15 along the frontiers, we think it our duty earnestly to re- peat our request. Perhaps the United States might ap- pear more respectable to those nations at a treaty to be held with them after the delivery of Niagara and Detroit to us by the British, but, in the meantime we hope such steps may be taken as may be the means of saving many lives, and preventing great calamities. We wish Con- gress would be pleased to consider whether it might not have a good effect upon the Indians to inform them by authority, that peace has been made with Great Britain, the articles of which are now carrying into execution; that the back country with all the forts is thereby ceded to us; that they must now depend upon us for their preservation and that unless they immediately cease from their out- rages and remain quiet till we can hold a treaty with them at Niagara or Detroit, we will instantly turn upon them our armies that have conquered the King of Great Britain and now have no other enemies to employ their valor, and extirpate them from the land where they were born and now live; but if they behave as they ought to do, they shall be treated not only justly but friendly. Such intelligence as this with the advance of a proper reinforcement to General Irvine at Pittsburg and the exertions of the troops under his command, might put a stop to the cruel- ties of the savages, or at least prevent their becoming more extensive."" This letter was presented to Congress on the first day of May, and the following resolution of that body was immediately adopted. "Resolved that the Sec'y of War, take the most effectual measures to inform the several Indian nations on the frontiers of the United States that preliminary articles of peace have been agreed on and hostilities have ceased with Great Britain, "Penn. Arch., X, 45.
Page 230
16 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES and to communicate to them that the forts within the United States and in possession of the British troops will be speedily evacuated, intimating also that the United States are disposed to enter into friendly treaties with the different tribes and to inform the hostile Indian Na- tions that unless they immediately cease all hostilities against the Citizens of these States and accept of these friendly proffers of peace, Congress will take the most decided measures to compel them thereto."18 General Lincoln was then Secretary of War, and it was quite natural that he should choose, as the commissioner to carry the above resolutions to the Indians, his old aide-de-camp, Ephraim Douglass, who was then at Princeton. Douglass at once set out upon his journey, leaving Princeton on May 3, and starting from Pittsburg, fully equipped, as early as June 7th.20 The journal kept by Douglass narrates his travels and we will omit any account concerning him until his return. Upon his return to Princeton he presented his report to i Cogress, dated August 18, 1783." He had received no pay for the expenses of his trip, nor for his time, but in expectation of an allowance from Congress, he waited in Philadelphia until the following October and then sent this letter to Congress: "Philadelphia Oct. 14, 1783. Having about the middle of August had the honor of making a report to Congress of a tour through the Indian Country, by order of the Secretary of War, I 19 Journals of Congress, Ed. 1823, vol. 4, p. 218, and Venn. Arch., X, 46. Wash- ington Irvine Cor. 188. "Washington Irvine Cor. 188, 418 and 414. 21 Penn. Arch., X, 88. 230
Page 231
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES have since waited at a very great expence in the belief that I should have the honor of hearing that some order had been taken in consequence of my application for an allowance to payi for this service; and being in great want of money I hope I shall be forgiven for reminding Congress of that application and for declaring the neces- sity which obliges me to repeat it."22 This letter was addressed to Elias Boudinot, President o Congress. In order to accomplish the errand that he was sen on, Douglass had ridden or walked through the wilderness froc Pittsburg to Sandusky and thence to Detroit, practically unat- tended, for he had no others companions than Captain McCully, a servant and two friendly Indians. These few persons could have availed little against unfriendly savages. From Detroit he had gone to Niagara by permission of DePeyster, and with an escort furnished by him; from MacLean at Niagara another escort was furnished, so that the danger of surprise and assassination by sav- ages was lessened, but throughout the entire trip there was no tune at which, or place in which he could feel assured of safety. When we read of the massacres; and scalpings that took place all over the frontier country at that time, we are surprised that these twc men passed through the land to Detroit and returned to their homes in safety. For this tedious journey and great risk, Con- gress awarded Douglass the sum of five hundred dollars,28 and 22 Continental Papers, 78. Vol. 8, page 35. 23 Monongahela of Old, 149. Among General Douglass' papers is one reading as follows: "The United States in Congress assembled, October 17, 1783, ordered that a report of the Secretary of War that five hundred dollars be paid to Ephraim Douglass as a reward for his services in going to the Canadian Country, be referred to the Superintendent of Finance to take order. Extract from the minutes. Geo. Bond, Depy. Sec." No such record appears in the Journals! as printed. General Douglass never applied for payment of this amount, probably because he considered it too paltry a 231
Page 232
18 EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES this was only granted after he had presented his claims a second time and called attention to his necessities. While Douglass was awaiting the tardy action of Congress it was proposed to organ- ize the County of Fayette in the western part of Pennsylvania, and he asked for the appointment of prothonotary in the new County." Upon the organization of a new County but sparsely settled, it was customary to appoint but few persons to office, as there was little work to be done, but each office holder was per- mitted, or expected, to fill several offices. So it happened that Douglass obtained the following several appointments in the new County of Fayette: Prothonotary, October 6, 1783. Judge of Common Pleas, October 9, 1783. Clerk of Court of Quarter Sessions, October 9, 1783. Clerk of Orphans' Court October 9, 1783.25 Shortly after the organization of the County the first Court was held, at Union Town, and preparations made for running the line of demarcation between the new County of Fayette and the old County of Westmoreland. The new County was divided into townships. The old quarrels about the ownership of lands, that had long existed between Pennsylvania and Connecticut, appeared to be on the verge of cropping out on this occasion, and it was con- cluded unwise to agitate the matter until, as Douglass reported, "the authority of the Court becomes by degrees and habitude of sum for the services he had performed. I was' with my mother in Pittsburg, in 1854, when she received the money, seventy-one years after it was ordered paid.—E. Douglass King (grandson), W the Editor, 1910. 24 Penn. Arch., X, 118, Oct. 2, 1783. He was in Philadelphia at this date. Fay- ette was formed from Westmoreland County.—Colonial Records, XIII, 702. 702. 25 Penn. Arch.} 2d series, pages 687, etc. Colonial Records, XIII, 702, 701. 232
Page 233
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 19 obedience more firmly established in the general acquiescence of all descriptions of people within the county, and a gaol and the other objects of popular terror be erected to impress on their minds an idea of the punishment annexed to a breach of the laws."26 On the sixth of the following February an election of justice of the peace was held. Douglass, gave the following description of the successful candidates to the Council. "Colonel MacLean, though not the first on the list, needs no character from me—he has the honor to be known to council." James Finley27 is a man of good understanding, good character and well situated to accommodate that part of the township most remote from the town. Henry Beeson is the proprietor of the town; a man of much modesty, good sense and great benevolence of heart, and one whose liberality of property for publiq uses justly entitles him to particular attention from the County, however far it may be a consideration with, Council. Jonathan Rowland is also a good man, with a good share of understanding, and, a better English education than either of the two last mentioned; but unfortunately, of a profession rather too much, opposed to the suppres- sion of vice and immorality; he keeps a tavern in the town. John Gaddis is a man I do not know personally; one who has at a former election, in the then township of Manallin, been returned to Council, but never commis- 26 Penn. Arch., X, 553. 27 Rev. James Finley, was sent by the General Assembly in 1783 to bring the citizens of the Western part of the State, who were proposing to form a new Government, to a sense of their obligations to government. Penn. Arch., X, 40, 41, and 168. 233
Page 234
20 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES sioned, from what reason I do not know; his popularity is with those who have been most conspicuous for their opposition to the laws of this commonwealth. Moses Sutton is remarkable for nothing but aspiring obscurity, and great facility at chanting a psalm or stam- mering a prayer."28 With all his garrulousness, Douglass seemed to have been well liked personally, and was continued in office for many years. In a letter written at this time he gives a description of his new home in Uniontown and also intimates the place of his birth: He writes "Uniontown is the most obscure spot on the face of the earth. . . . We have been frozen up here for more than a month past, but a great many of us having been bred in another state, the eating of hominy is as natural to us as the drinking of whisky in the morning. The town and its appurtenances consist of our presi- dent and a lovely little family, a court-house and school- house in, one, a mill, and consequently a miller, four taverns, three smith shops, five retail shops, two tan yards, one of them only occupied, two hatter's, shops, one mason, one cake-woman, (we had two but one of them having committed a petit larceny is upon banishment), two widows and some reputed maids. To which may be added a distillery. The upper part of this edifice is the habitation at will of your humble servant, who, beside the smoke of his own chimney, which is intolerable enough, is fumigated by that of the two stills below, exclusive of the other effluvia that arises from the dirty vessels in which they prepare the materials for the stills. The upper floor M Penn. Arch., X, 555. 234
Page 235
EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 21 of ray parlour, which is also my chamber and office, is laid with loose clapboards or puncheons, and both the gable ends entirely open; and yet this is the best place in my power to procure till weather will permit me to build, and even this I am subject to be turned out of the mo- ment the owner, who is at Kentucky and hourly expected, returns." The general curse of the country, disunion, rages in this little mudhole with as much malignity as if they had each pursuits of the utmost importance, and the most opposed to each other, when in truth they had no pursuits at all, that deserve the name, except that of obtaining food and whiskey, for raiment they scarcely use any.29 A log jail was built the same year,30 and it seems to have been much needed. The country was divided into political factions. Some were in favor of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, some in favor of Virginia, some wanted a new and independent govern- ment and some were Tories, in favor of the government of England or none whatever. Many of them were engaged in or concerned with the manufacture of whiskey. They were unwilling to pay the excise or to conform to any law that obstructed the manufacture or sale of the article. Here was a turbulent community, with many varieties of opposition to law. The officer who could so conduct his office as not to gain the contempt and ill feeling of the citizens was very fortunate, and perhaps very skilful. The necessity of a jail was seriously felt, if we rely upon the report made by Douglass to Secretary Armstrong, May 29, 1784. He writes: "Letter of Feb. 11, 1784, Penn. Mag. of Hist., 1, 50. so Letter of Douglass to Dickinson, Feb. 2, 1784, in Hist. Fayette Co., page 136, " necessity has suggested to us the expediency of building a temporary gaol by subscription, which is now on foot." 235
Page 236
22 EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES "The County Commissioners are so much counteracted by the rabble of this country that it appears hardly probable the taxes will ever be collected on the pres- ent mode. In the township of Manallin in particular, which includes this place, agreeable to its limits in the duplicate, the terror of undertaking the duty of collector, has determined several to refuse it under the high penalty annexed. Two only have accepted it, and these have both been robbed by some ruffians unknown, and in the night, of their duplicates. The inhabitants of the other townships have not gone such lengths, but com- plain so much of the hardship and the want of money that I fear little is to be hoped from them. On the other hand the banditti from Bucks County, or some other equally bad or more probably both, have established them- selves in some part of this county not certainly known, but thought to be the deserted part of Washington County, whence they make frequent incursions into the settlements under cover of the night, terrify the inhab- itants, sometimes beat them unmercifully, and always rob them of their property as they think proper, and then re- tire to their lurking places."" Douglass was land-poor at this time, having an abundance of land from which little or no income could be derived. He had in 1783 three hundred acres in Westmoreland County, and was as- sessed for land in Pitt township, in Manallin township and in Union township. In 1788 he was assessed for an additional 238 acres in Westmoreland County.82 81 Venn. Arch., X, 582, Hittj Fayette Co., 181, where there are some affidavits on the same subject. *2 Penn. Arch., 3d series XXII, 899, 447, 485, and in XXVI, 422. 236
Page 237
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 23 In 1789 he was appointed the agent for forfeited estates/' These estates consisted of property, which had been seized by the government as belonging to traitors and those who were charged with being opposed to the government of the United States, dur- ing the time of the revolution. The estates were placed in the hands of agents for the state, for care, inventory and disposition under direction of law. It is said that but one case of a forfeited estate, that of Dr. Anthony Yendall of Philadelphia, ever came to his charge. When Douglass first moved to Uniontown he carried a stock of goods with him, but when this was disposed of he no longer engaged in that business but.devoted himself to his official duties and to surveying." The troubles in the western part of the State culminated in 1794 in the rebellion commonly called the Whiskey Insurrection. The object of the rioters was to prevent the imposition and col- lection of an excise on whiskey, but the real object, more deeply seated, was the destruction of a representative government and the formation of one of pure democracy.86 The officers of the law used their efforts, in vain, to allay the troubles, but, in spite of all their work, the rioting and house burning increased and murder »3CoZ. Rec. XVI, 27. 84 Monongahela of Old, 149. He was County treasurer, from Oct. 13, 1784 till 1800. Hist. Fayette, 151. He was put down as a slaveholder in the cen- sus report, id., 128. He kept an acount book, the first entry in which is dated June 6, 1773. There are no entries between April 1, 1774 and Sep- tember 3, 1784. The last entry in the book is as follows: "Memorandum, Nell, my slave, was delivered of a female mulattoe child on the llth day of October, 1790, and called it Peggy. E. Douglass." 85 This idea appears in several of Washington's letters of this time. "Intelli- gence has tended to manifest the necessity of what has been done" (call- ing out the militia), " it being now confessed by those who were not inclined to exaggerate the ill conduct of the insurgents that their malevolence was not pointed merely to a particular law, but that a spirit inimical to all order has actuated many of the offenders." Washington's annual address in Messages of the Presidents, Vol. 1, page 165. 237
Page 238
24 EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES was added to the other and lesser crimes. At the request of the Secretary of War acting under a Federal Statute, the various States called out their militia to the number of 15,000 and held them in readiness to take the field. The Pennsylvania detachment numbered 10,768. The Fourth Division of Pennsylvania militia was organized under Major General John Gibson, and under him Ephraim Douglass was appointed Brigadier General of the first brigade, with militia from Washington and Fayette counties to the number of 937.89 James Wilson, Judge of the United States Court, officially notified President Washington of the existence of insurrection on the fourth of August, 1794, and three days later Washington issued a proclamation warning the insurgents to desist from their opposition to law.37 At the same time James Ross, Jasper Yeates and William Bradford were appointed a com- mittee to visit the western counties and undertake to bring the de- luded persons to a realization of their situation. The excitement reached its height in the early part of August. As one of the evi- dences of the enthusiasm of the rioters, they erected " liberty poles" in various places in their neighborhood where a crowd could be collected to witness the pole raising and take part in the exercises. One of these poles was erected on the Morgantown road south of Uniontown, on the farm of Thomas Gaddis, who was one of the principal leaders of the "whiskey boys" in Fayette County. This pole, as well as one in Uniontown, was cut down by General Doug- lass in defiance of all threats and intimidations.88 Little opposition was, however, shown to the workings of this rebellious element of the country and the officers of the government who were appointed to collect the tax were driven from the district. 86 Penn. Arch., 2d series, IV, 766. Douglass was appointed Brigadier-General of the County of Fayette, by Governor Thomas Mifflin, April 19, 1793. 87 These papers are printed in various volumes but in the American State Pap. (G. and S. ed., 1884) they are found collected on pages 83, et seq. *s Hist. Fayette Co., 167. 238
Page 239
EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 25 Various persons acting as Committees of factions of the in- surgents, now met the government commissions and, after some negotiations, agreed that all further depredations should cease and that law and order should again rule. It appeared, however, from the statements of these men that they were unable to control all of the rioters and were afraid that the "ill disposed lawless ones- could suddenly assemble and offer violence." Not being able to assure the President of an obedience to the laws, the commissioners returned to Philadelphia and made their report September 24, 1794. In this report they stated that the usual police force of the western district was not sufficient to command a due respect for the laws and that a "more competent force is necessary to cause the laws to be executed, and to ensure to the officers and well dis- posed citizens that protection which it is the duty of Government to afford."89 There was nothing left for the government to do but to pro- ceed to enforce the law, and the next day after this report was made, Washington issued a proclamation summoning into service the militia of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia. Henry Lee, governor of Virginia, was placed at the head of the troops and marched westward.40 The President also set out out for the west, on the first of October and proceeded as far as Carlisle. By this time the people had come to the conclusion that the government was in earnest, and William Findley and David Redick were appointed by the insurrectionists to meet Washing- ton at Carlisle41 and tell him of their peaceful disposition and of their determination to support the civil authority. It was evident now, as Governor Mifflin said, that "the insurgents vainly pre- 38 Am. St. P. ed., 1834, Vol. XX, 83, where all the official papers are collected. See also Brackenridge's Hist, of the Whiskey Insurrection. 40 It would appear from Washington's letter of Oct. 8, 1794 (Letters vol. 12, p. 469) that he personally headed the troops until that day. 41 Venn. Arch., 2d series IV, 389. 239
Page 240
26 EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES sumed upon their own prowess or upon the insolent hope that a competent force could not be sent against them, and they indulged the spirit of outrage, without remorse or restraint,"42 but they felt differently as they saw the army of militia increasing in num- ber as new recruits joined it at every cross road and village. Washington met the commissioners at Carlisle on October 10th, and was informed that the citizens who were peaceably in- clined were afraid that the advance of the militia would disturb the country and that violence would ruin it. They therefore asked that he rely upon their efforts to suppress the disorder,43 but as they could offer no assurances that the Country would remain quiet and that order would be restored, the President told them that the progress of the army would not be stopped until the peo- ple had returned to their allegiance. The commissioners returned to their constituents to obtain more complete assurances that the disturbances would cease, and Washington continued on until he reached Bedford. Congress was about to assemble and Washington decided that he would return to Philadelphia to meet it, and departed from Bedford on the 22d of October. The commissioners, with further assurances of the peaceful disposition of the people, set out to meet him at Bedford, not knowing of his return. The Commis- sion now consisted of Finley, Redick, Ephraim Douglass and Thomas Morton, the two latter being added at the meeting at Parkinson's Ferry October 24th. The report of this committee is dated at Uniontown, November 1, 1794,44 and recites that the committee went to Bedford to meet the President, but that he had returned to Philadelphia before their arrival and that they there met Governor Henry Lee and presented the resolutions of the 41 Address of Mifflin toj the militia of Lancaster, Penn. Arch., 2d ser. IV., 370. 48 Penn. Arch., 2d Ser.' IV., 16. 44 Penn. Arch., 2d series, IV, 437- 240
Page 241
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 27 meeting at Parkinson's Ferry. Lee informed them that he pro- posed to take the army as far as Pittsburg and there he would await the restoration of order. If the mandates of the courts were obeyed and order was restored without force, he would retire with the army as soon as possible. "On my part" he said, "and on the part of the patriotic army I have the honor to command, as- sure your fellow citizens that we come to protect and not to de- stroy, and that our respect for our common government and re- spect for our own honor, are ample pledge of the propriety of our demeanor." The army was at Uniontown November 2, 1794, and after proceeding westward in detachments, it was found that order had been completely restored and the return march was begun on the 16th of the same month.45 While it cannot be said that all of the inhabitants of the western part of the State qqietly returned to their individual avocations, it might properly be maintained that open and avowed defiance of the law was at an end, and there was no longer a concerted refusal to pay the whiskey tax. There had been a feeling in this part of the State that the Government of the United States was weak and unable to protect its officers, or even to preserve itself from destruction within a short time. The'collection of the militia, the rapid march to Pitts- burg, the determination to uphold the law, were alike surprising to the citizens and to the insurgents. Thereafter the laws were respected with better grace. It was, however, happily so soon in the history of our country, ascertained that the militia laws were very defective and that little confidence could be placed on an army so constituted that each state had a greater authority than the federal government. It became apparent that a small stand- ing army was absolutely necessary, and that the militia, when called into action, should be considered as forming a part of that "Penn. Arch., 2d ser.J IV, 452. 241
Page 242
28 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES army, subject only to the militia laws of the general Government. The legislature of Pennsylvania passed an act, on the fourth day of April, 1796, erecting Uniontown into a borough and providing for the election of two burgesses on the first Monday in May, 1797, and annually thereafter. Until the election, Ephraim Douglass and Alexander MacLean were appointed burgesses, Douglass to be chief burgess.40 How long he held the office is not known. The public records of Uniontown were some years later destroyed by fire, and the succession of officers has been lost. The popula- tion of the county was increasing very rapidly and the problem of communication with the outside world, a problem for the State and for the county to settle, was of great interest to every village and hamlet. In the absence of modern methods of travel and of transportation, roads and canals only were to be thought of. Washington devoted considerable time and study to the matter, but during his official life nothing practical was undertaken. In 1797 the building of a road over the mountains was discussed in Congress, but no action was taken. In 1804 the General Assembly of Pennsylvania passed an act for the incorporation of the Union and Cumberland Turnpike Road Company and Ephraim Douglass, Alexander MacLean, and a number of other men were appointed commissioners to solicit subscriptions to the capital stock of the corporation. The pur- pose was to make a road from Laurel Hill, near Uniontown, in the direction of Cumberland, Maryland.47 This was to be a toll road, and the State was permitted to pur- chase it at any time upon the payment of a stated consideration. But little progress was made with this corporation, for under an act of Congress of 1805, work was begun upon the great Cumber- 46 Hist. Fayette Co., 290. For sketch of the life of Alexander MacLean and of his wife, Sarah Holmes MacLean, see Egle's Notes and Queried (1896), page 209. "Hist. Fayette Co., 252. 242
Page 243
EPHKAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 29 land Road, a government highway which would ultimately enter the territory northwest of the Ohio river. Uniontown, at this time, was a place of considerable importance as being on the great thoroughfare known as Braddock's Road.48 In the original plan for laying out the Cumberland road, that turnpike passed some distance from Uniontown, and the citizens were aroused at this proposal to side-track their village. "This action of the commis> sioners caused no little consternation at the county seat, for it was believed that the town would be ruined if the Great Cumberland Road should be laid out to pass at a distance from it." 49 A petition to Jefferson was headed by General Doug- lass and other citizens, and by their influence, together with the assistance of Albert Gallatin, who was also from Fayette County, Jefferson was induced to change the direction of the road, so as to pass through Uniontown.50 Regarding the personal appearance of General Douglass, Judge Veech, who knew him personally, writes as follows: "General Douglass was a man of high stature and *8 Egle's Hist. Penn., 729, "Lying upon the great thoroughfare from the east to the west called in the early day Braddock's Road, and afterwards the National Road, her mercantile interests prospered under the demands of masses of emigration passing through the borough, and the wants of the agricultural country around her limits." 49 Hist. Fayette Co., 253. t0 Messages of the Presidents, I, 440: "Thej States of Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia having by their several acts consented that the road from Cumberland to the State of Ohio, authorized by the act of Congress of the 2d of March, 1806, should pass through those States, and the report the Com- missioners communicated to Congress with my message of the 81st January, 1807, having been duly considered, I have approved of the route therein pro- posed for the road as far as Brownsville, with the single deviation, since located, which carries it through Uniontown." 243
Page 244
80 EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES most imposing appearance,* remarkably neat and exact in gait and dress, with long queue and powdered hair. He was a peer among the great and high-minded judges and attorney of his day — Addison, Ross, Smith, Brack- enridge, Meason, Galbraith, Hadden, Lyon, Kennedy and others, enjoying their society and confidence. He had a repulsive sternness and awe-inspiring demeanor, which repelled undue familiarity and rendered him un- popular with the masses. His temper was irritable and he was subject to impetuous rage. Yet he was a man of great liberality, generous and kind to the poor, and espe- cially a friend in need. It is said that in a season when a great scarcity of grain was threatened, he providently bought up, at fair prices, large quantities which, when the expected want of his neighbors came upon them, he sold at cost, or lent to be repaid in kind and quantity after the next harvest. But the most striking proof of his generosity is the following, which we find among his papers: (To understand its force the reader must re- member that at its date General St. Clair had become old, broken in spirit, and very poor, eking out a subsistence for himself and an afflicted family by keeping a poor old log tavern by the wayside, on Chestnut Ridge Mountain, in Westmoreland). Uniontown, 13 February, 1809. Received of General Ephraim Douglass one hundred dollars, which I promise to repay him on demand, or at furthest by the sixth of June next. Ar. St. Clair. Underneath which, in General Douglass' handwriting * The portrait which forms our frontispiece is from a miniature on ivory, re- touched from a pencil drawing made from life, furnished by E. Douglass King, of Washington, D. C. 244
Page 245
EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 31 is "never to be demanded. To save the feelings of an old friend I accepted this receipt, after refusing to take an obligation. E. Douglass."" The available histories of the time record very little of Gen- eral Douglass from this time until the visit of General Lafayette to Uniontown in May 1825. Lafayette arrived in the United States in 1824 and during the space of more than a year succeed- ing, he traveled over that part of the country east of the Missis- sippi river and met with a continued round of hearty receptions. In the course of these travels he left Washington, Pa., May 26, 1825, and that afternoon was given a rousing reception by the people of Uniontown, where he slept that night. The address of welcome on the occasion was delivered by Albert Gallatin, and the proceedings of the evening are thus described in a local paper: "At an early hour an elegant supper was served, of which the general and suite and a large company of gentlemen partook. On the right of General Lafayette was placed General Douglass, and on his left the Hon. Albert Gallatin, and to the right of Gen- eral Douglass, Governor Morrow, of Ohio, and his aides, and to the left of Mr. Gallatin, Judge Baird and the Revolutionary sol- diers. After supper toasts were drank and the company re- tired."52 At this time General Douglass was one of the richest men in Uniontown. His name stands second in amount in the list of tax 51 The Monongahela of Old, 149. St Clair* lived at Chestnut Ridge five miles west of Ligonier. "The dwelling was a log house, situated by the side of the old State road that passed from Bedford to Pittsburg. Hither many were at- tracted by the fame of the noble resident, whose dignity of carriage, fire of spirit and charm of conversation were! preserved in spite of his extreme age. St. Clair Papers, I, 252. •2 Hist. Fayette Co., 295. 845
Page 246
32 EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIME8 payers." He owned lots on the south side of Elbow street, the principal street in the place, on which he built a brick house. He dispensed a general hospitality, making his home a favorite visit- ing-place for young and old. "The house, in which he lived all the remainder of his life, was destroyed by fire" about 1867. General Douglass died on his farm, two miles out of Union- town July 17, 1833. He left a will dated July 24, 1826, which was probated July 19, 1833" in which he appointed Ellis Bailey and Isaac Beeson executors. By the will he gave to Ephraim Douglass and Ellen, his wife, the brick house on Elbow street, above mentioned, and the adja- cent property; to Bertha, wife of Samuel Swearingen, land on the north side of Elbow street; to Louisa, wife of Samuel Minor, land on Redstone creek a mile below Uniontown; to Ann Keller, daugh- ter of Daniel and Sarah Keller, land on the north side of Elbow street; to Douglass Keller, eldest son of Daniel and Sarah Keller, the farm on which the testator lived, containing 100 acres; all the remainder of his property he gave to Eliza Douglass,55 Erwin Keller, Mary Keller, Sarah Keller and Harriet Keller. Clarence M. Burton. COMMISSION OF EPHRAIM DOUGLASS War Office, May 3rd, 1783. Sir In pursuance of your appointment as messenger to the sev Indians Nations on the Frontiers of the United States, you will, in the execution of your mission, conform to the Instructions laid down in the resolve of Congress which accompanies this Letter. •* His assessment in Uniontown in 1824 was $4150 while that of Isaac Beeson, the only one larger than his, was $5780. In this assessment roll appears the name of Ephraim Douglass, Jr., student. 54 Vol. 1, p. 356, Probate office, Uniontown. 85 Eliza Douglass is probably the Eliza King who applied for a pension Nov. 80, 1854, and who stated that she was the daughter of General Douglass. 246
Page 247
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 83 You will announce to the diff1 Tribes the Proclamation of Congress and the Articles of Peace, and you will verbally inform the Indians that the British King has been compelled to agree to make peace with the United States, That he has fixed the Bounda- ries between his People and the People of the United States,— That he has agreed to evacuate and deliver up to the United States the Forts O—N—D,1 and all other Forts occupied by him to the Southward of the line agreed upon between his people and the peo- ple of the United States. That all the Tribes and Nations of Indians who live to the S— and W—2 of the line agreed on, must no longer look to the King beyond the Water, but they must now look to the great Council, the C—* of the United States at Philadelphia. That the great Council of the U. S.: regret that the Indians did not pay due attention to the advice which was given to them at Albany in the beginning of the late quarrel, as if they had listened to that advice they might have lived in Peace during the War, and would at this time have been exempt from all its ill consequences. In making this intimation you will point out to the Indians the great losses which they have suffered, and the ca- lamities which they have brought upon themselves by their espousal of the cause of G. B.—You will then inform them that the U. S. are a compassionate and merciful people—that they are disposed to pity the I * and to forgive their past folly, on condition that they immediately desist from further hostility, and hereafter con- duct themselves as a people disposed to Enjoy the blessings of Peace which are now extended to them: But if they hesitate to accept the friendship which is now offered to them, or continue hostilities, they must expect that the U. S. who have now no other object to employ the Valour of their Warriors, will take the most severe and exemplary vengeance of the Indians.—That however 1 Oswego, Niagara, Detroit. * Congress. 'South and West. * Indians.' 847
Page 248
34 EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES they hope there will be no occasion to use threats or proceed to ex- tremties—That the I— must see it is their Interest, and essential to their happiness to live in peace with the U. S. and as the U—S are disposed to enter into friendly treaty with them, they should immediately put a stop to all hostilities, call in their Warriors, as- semble their Council of Wise men, and appoint some of them to meet the Commiss™ of the U. S.— at a place to be agreed on, there to agree upon a treaty of Peace and friendship. As the business of your mission will be facilitated by taking with you the Emblems of Peace, you will endeavor to procure all such as may be required in your interviews. You will, in the most effectual manner, and with all possible dispatch, endeavor to effect the completion of this business, in which you will employ such as- sistance as shall be found indispensably requisite—the strictest Economy governing all your expences. You will extend your information to D—" which place you will visit as soon as your necessary communications on the road will admit. In enclose to you a letter for the Commd. Off. of that Post. Mr. Bull is charged with a Similar Commission to the Indians at Oswego & Niagara, but in case of accident to him, you will, if you should find it necessary, make the like communications to those Tribes; in which case, I think you had better return by Albany, from which place, should circumstances make it necessary, you will draw upon me for your Additional expenses. I wish you an agreeable accomplishment of your business, and am with great regard Sir, Your most obed* and most humble Servant B. Lincoln. Ephraim DOUglass Esq'. 8 Detroit. 248
Page 249
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 35 DELAWARE TOWN ON SANDUSKY, June 17, 1783. DOUGLASS TO ELLIOTT. DEAR SIR Abstracted from all political consideration I presume on a former intimacy of friendship to salute you on the present occa- sion in the language of personal friendship, and extend to you the hand of a man you once esteemed, and who still loves and esteems you. I am sent by Congress to the Indians on a Mission of a very interesting nature, which I have suspended opening until the Shauneze shall be present. The Delawares sent a Messenger to invite their chiefs to attend, by whom I also take the liberty of entreating you to use your influence with them, and am the more earnest in this request from my horses being so weak & fatigued that it will be impossible for me to visit them, having to proceed immediately to Detroit. You may with great truth assure them that any Message they may have received from any other quarter has not the sanc- tion or authority of the United States, and consequently can only be binding on the Individual who sent it. By this I don't mean to lessen the validity of the message lately sent them (by whom I know riot) but only to satisfy them that nothing of Peace or War can possibly be in his power. If you can make it convenient to attend I should be happy to see you here, as well for the pleasure of taking you by the hand, as to show you the authentic papers relative to the treaty between Great Britain and America, and other Public transactions in Europe which have perhaps not yet come to your hands. I find myself so much rusted in the Delaware tongue that I would rather speak by an interpreter than myself. 249
Page 250
36 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES If you can prevail on Joshua Still the Jersey Indian to Come over, you will greatly oblige. Dear Sir Your friend and humble servant EPHRAIM DOUGLASS. Captain McCully and Mr. James Elliot present you with their Compliments and assurance that they will be glad to see you CAPTAIN MATTHEW ELLIOTT, Shauneze Town Copy of a letter from Major DePeyster to Brigr Gen1 MacLean, dated 29th June 1783 at Detroit— j DETROIT THE 29th June 1783. SIK The enclosed is this instant come to hand—I have dispatched iMr. Elliott to fetch in this favorite of Congress, least he do mis- chief among the Indians. A. S. DEPEYSTER. Brigr Gen1 MacLean. DETROIT 7th July 1783. SIR Now that the Missionaries from Congress are Embarked and on the point of their departure, I will mention a word to you in private. I have shewn them Every civility consistant with my duty, during their stay at this Place—and I have great reason (from the cheerful appearance in the countenances of many, as well as their expression, and the odd notions put into the heads of the Indians) to be happy that they are embarked.—Perhaps you may think it best they should return by Lake Champlain, but in case it 250
Page 251
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 37 should be otherwise, I will be glad of your particular directions how you would wish I should behave to them on their return here. However great Enthusiasts those Missionaries, (as they call themselves) may be, and however willing to risk Martyrdom in the American cause, Still it would bring an eternal Slur upon me, should any drunken Indian, or any one whose Sufferings have been too great to have allowed him to listen to my Council, do them an ill turn, considering the vast tract of Country betwixt this and Fort Pitt—besides, on the other hand they would have an opportunity of delivering their message to the Indians, which they were prevented doing on their way hither by reason of the Chiefs being on their way to Detroit—that the intent of their Journey is Known amongst the Indians, I make no doubt, but as it could not be signified in form, and answers received, they are not much advanced, and matters may still remain doubtful. You, Sir, are the properest judge of this affair, and I sincerely wish the steps I have taken may meet with your approbation—Detroit is by no means a place for American Deputies to reside in until his Excellency's final orders are received. Brigad7 General Maclean. A. S. De Peyster. LINCOLN TO DE PEYSTEB Philadelphia, May 3d, 1783. Sib Congress have directed me to take Measures to inform the several Indian Nations on the Frontier of the United States that Preliminary Articles of Peace have been agreed on, and that Hostilities have ceased with Great Britain, and to announce the Pacific disposition of the United States to the several Tribes. Mr. Douglas, who will have the Honor of delivering this Letter is charged with this interesting and agreeable Message.— 251
Page 252
38 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES Should he experience any Difficulty in executing his Commission I Beg leave to recommend him to you, for your assistance. I have the Honor to be very respectively . Sir. Your most obedient and most humble Servant. B. LINCOLN. To the Officer Commanding the Garrison of His Britannic Majesty at Detroit. 252
Page 253
THE ITINERARY OF DOUGLASS' JOURNEY TO DETROIT (Weitten by McCully) SATURDAY July 7th, 1783. Crossed the Allegany River at 9 O'clock and proceeded Down—found the road intricate as the Bushes were lofty and in many places enterlocked in each other, so that it was impossible to follow the old path. After passing the Narrows we came to many improvements about J of an .Acre planted with Corn, and three or four rounds of Cab- ben logs laid up, these continued at a regular distance till we passed logs Town one Mile, where we halted to refresh, after one hour's stay we moved on and found the improvements continued untill we arrived at Big Beaver Creek, which we crossed and encamped at Fort Mcintosh for the Night—The land which we traveled through today is good, the hills as well as low land—the timber good, and good Water, the General Course of this day west in all 30,y miles. Sunday 8th left Fort Mcintosh at 2 O'clock, passed the road leading to Newcomers' Town, crossed the first Branch of little Beaver Creek where we halted to refresh; the land Between big and little Beaver Creek is in General good; near little B. Creek the land is but thin, though appears kindly, the Timber is good, in most part white and Black Oak. After two hours' halt, moved on, the road very intricate, the land poor until we passed the second branch of little Beaver, and came on the waters of Yallow Creek where it was much better, the timber good; we halted on a small branch of Yallow Creek for the night, our course this day south of west; in all 24 miles. Monday 9th we found ourselves this morning in a very dis- 253
Page 254
40 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES agreeable situation as it had rained almost all night on us, our Clothing wet, at 7 O'clock we started and with some difficulty passed Yallow Creek, came on to the Deviding Ridge between yallow and sandy Creek, where are two fine springs the one a branch of Yallow and the Other, of sandy Creek, here we halted to refresh for one hour, and then moved on came to three springs (the waters of Sandy Creek) where we made an other pause— distance from the other 5 miles,—moved on and crossed sandy Creek, kept down it for several miles until we came to two large plains, between which we encamped for the night, our course this day south of west in all 29 miles. Tuesday 10th from the great quantity of rain last night we were much wetted, yet moved at 7 O'clock, and crossed many small branches of sandy creek—and one large, known to the traders by the Name of Namahshulin Creek and in five miles Gamed Tuscorarrie River which we found to be very high and rising very fast. Though by carrying our provisions and Baggage on our Backs we, on our horses got everything over safe. Halted on the west bank to refresh. After an hours halt, moved on passed Fort Lawrence and came to the fork of the road leading one to Ols Landing, and the other to Sandusky. Here we were at a loss, the roads entirely disappearing, and it was some time before we could determine what to do. At length, agreed to keep up Sugar Creek with a view of falling into the road that leads from the Moravian Town, and accordingly moved on, crossed Sugar Creek and passed through a large plain, which was followed by a long swamp, at the end of which we ascended a steep hill and continued along a ridge of fallen timber which was very difficult to pass. In 3 or 4 miles we came to Black Water Creek, which we crossed, and soon fell in on the Beech Run where we found traces of the road and encamped for the night. Our general course today West, the land, water and timber good, in all 27 miles. Wednesday 11", started this morning at 6 o'clock and con- 254
Page 255
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 41 tinued up the Run for several miles and on quiting the run, got on a ridge well timbered, good land, which we kept for 10 miles and then halted to refresh. After an hours stay moved on and in 4 miles we came to Kill-Bucks Creek, where we made a short pause. The land for several miles before we came to this creek is exceedingly good, much fine timber, and good meadows; moved on and crossed the creek and in traveling 10 miles through a very rich soil came to Moheeking John's Town, a place well known to the traders. Here we halted for the night. A heavy rain in the day, and which still continued had obliged a large swarm of Bees to take refuge on the body of a tree where we encamped. They were our companions during our stay at the place. Our course in general today, West; in all 24 miles. Thursday 12th, lay still this day not being able to cross John's Creek, by reason of the heavy rain. Friday 13th, started at 6 o'clock and with much difficulty crossed the creek, it being very high, and to avoid two other crossing places went round on Elbow, where we met with intoler- able srtvamps and thickets, but in two hours gained the road and followed it through an excellent soil, passing two Creeks until we came to Hell Town, 14 miles. Here we halted to refresh. After a stay of two hours moved on, crossed Hell Town Creek, lost the road and lost ourselves, and after two hours riding came again to Hell Town. We then took the south side of the Creek and found the road, persued it three miles and halted for the night. The course in general today, west; in all 17 miles. Saturday 14th, started at 7 o'clock and kept up Hell Town Creek till 10, when we got lost again. In one hour found the road and kept it till we came to a large run at the foot of the dividing ridge, where we halted to refresh. After an hours halt moved on crossing the ridge and soon came to the waters of Sioto. Crossed many small streams, and at sunset encamped on one. No sooner 255
Page 256
42 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES were our horses loosed to feed, than we were saluted with an Indian hollow which was' immediately answered by Mr. Douglass, and desired to come up to us. He replied it would be surprising if he would not, but was most surprised indeed when he found it was white men he was advancing to. Seeing him much alarmed Mr. Douglass and I stepped to him and took him by the hand, Cold our business, took every method to dissipate his fear which we soon effected. He then told us he had observed by our horses track that they were shod, but believed they had been stolen from the white people by some warriors that was then out and he had thought we were them. He also told us that he had two com- panions a little behind, that would soon come up and accordingly they did, and we spent the evening very sociably together. Our camp in general today south of west, in all 25 miles. Sunday 15th, at seven o'clock we and the Indians started together and continued our course for the Daleware Town; came to Grind Stone Creek and branch of Sioto where we halted to refresh. After an hours halt moved on and came to upper San- dusky where we halted for the night. On our way today we passed through many large plains. Our course in genl north of west, in all 26 miles. Monday 16th, we found ourselves this morning within 10 miles of the Deleware Town, and early dispatched one of the Indians to inform the Chiefs that we were coming to see them from the great Council of America, and by 10 o'clock we supposed him to be there and moved on. In riding 6 miles we met two runners who were sent by the Chiefs to inform us they were collected and ready to receive us, bidding us come on and fear nothing. We soon arrived at the town, and was saluted with a discharge of small arms and then conducted to the King's House, and visited by all the tribe that was present, who took us by the hands and appeared glad to see us. When the ceremony of shak- 256
Page 257
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 43 ing hands was over the King arose and made the following speech: "I rejoice, my brohers, that it has pleased God to suffer us to live to see each other once more. I am glad to see you enter my house. All my relations present rejoice to see you, my women and children are all glad of your arrival, and join in my welcome to you. Now Brothers listen to me— As you are come from the great Council of America, I sup- pose you bring us some news. Now brothers with this string (wampum—which was half black and half white) I take the briars and thorns from your feet, and legs, I wipe the sweat from your faces and bodies, the dust from your eyes, and the dust from your ears. I remove the fatigue and palpitation from your hearts, and place them straight in your bodies in their most easy and natural position. I tell you again brothers, it is good you are come but whatever you have to say I desire you will first deliver it to our Uncles the Wyandotes, and then to the Shau- nezes, our grandchildren, and afterwards to us, accompanied with a string half black and half white." He then ordered his nephews to scour the town for something for us to eat, and desired the women to make haste and prepare victuals for us, and bade them speak friendly to us. In the meanwhile the Wyandotes arrived at the town from theirs, which is a small distance from the Daleware. Several of the principal men gave us their hand, the rest passed by and set down without taking any notice of us. The Chief of the Deleware again addressed himself to Mr. Capt. Douglass in the following manner. "We are now, brothers, all present whom we have any reason to expect shortly, as most of our men are out hunting, Delawares as well as Wyandotes— we are all desirous of hearing something of your message to us— if you think proper to deliver it, but if you think proper, suspend it till there are more present,—we wish you to do what you think 257
Page 258
44 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES best. The Chief of the Wyandotes is at Detroit and we can't tell when he may return." Then Mr. Douglass took a string similar to that delivered him, thanked them for their kindly reception of him and his com- panions and assured them that the United States would be glad to hear that their hearts were so well disposed towards any persons sent by them. He told them he thought it would be better to defer the message until they would be able to collect the Chiefs of the neighboring tribes, that he wished them to send to Detroit for the half King of the Wyandotes, and to lower Sandusky for the Residue, and to their friends the Shaunizes. In the meantime we were much fatigued with a long journey and wished to rest a little, that by the time they would have the chiefs collected we should be recovered, and have everything in readiness to communi- cate all that we were charged with. In the meantime he would tell them that the message was a friendly one, and that it was now peace between us and the English. On this they determined to send to Detroit for the Wyandote Chief, and delivered the string which Mr. Douglass had given them, to a young Wyandote who refused to go—the string was returned to the Chief of the Wyandotes present who went immediately home to endeavor to get some person to go to Detroit on that business, and promised to send us word of his success. In the evening we were visited by many of the Indian women, Wyandotes as well as Delawares, also by two white women who had been made prisoners by the Indians. One of them as soon as she saw us burst into tears, and began to make a complaint of ill treatment as though we would have relieved her. The other behaved with more prudence, and bore her misfortune well. In all today, 10 miles. Tuesday 17th. Early this morning the Delaware chief sent his nephew and one other Indian to the Shaunizes (which lived at the distance of 50 miles from the Deleware town) with the 258
Page 259
EPIIRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 45 speech Mr. Douglass had delivered them, and desired that they would attend with all possible haste. In the evening the Wyan- dote man returned and told us that the half King, their Chief, was expected home in two days, and that he thought it unnecessary to send to him. Wednesday 12th, this day passed until near night (without anything happening worth notice) when two Deleware men ar- rived from the Shaunizes with a message delivered them by Mr. Mathew Elliot, desiring four chiefs of each tribe to repair im- mediately to Detroit and carry with them the hatchet they had received to stroke the Americans with, and by all means to call in all their warriors. Thursday 19th. Passed this day without anything transpir- ing worth notice. Friday 20th. We were visited today by three white men, two prisoners, and one trader. They told us many anecdotes respect- ing the Indian War, and they give us the names of many prisoners now in the possession of the different Indian tribes, which are as follows, viz.1 . . . know how soon they could see us. Monday 23rd. Early this morning the Deleware Chief re- 'BUREAU OF PENSIONS, WASHINGTON, D. C. Upon reading this diary to-day for the first time, I find no entry for Saturday and Sunday, the 21st and 22nd, and no list of prisoners referred to in the entry of the 20th, from -which I infer that said list and the entries of the dates referred to have been abstracted from the diary at some time, whether before it was turned over to the Government or since, cannot be deter- mined. C. M. Bryant, Chief O. W. and N. Division. November 12, 1906. 259
Page 260
46 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES ceived a message from part of his people that lived amongst the Shaunizes, desiring him to send to Detroit and let the English know that they would not attend at the time appointed, as they had to stay and hear some strange Indians that had arrived among them. The chief then on a string of wampum sent to them again desiring them to appoint a day to meet him and us at the fork of the road, which lead to Detroit and not wait to hear anything the strangers had to say, as they could give them no answer, but to take them by the hand and bring them along to Detroit where the chiefs of the Mingoes and Wyandotes would be, and then they would have a hearing to any story they had to tell, or any answer to any requisition they had to make, i In the evening Capt. Snap a Wyandote Indian, waited on the Deleware chief with a message from the Shaunizes, intimating that they could not attend until they heard what the southern Indians had to say. Tuesday 24th. By two Wyandotes that arrived here today we learned the names of the several tribes which had arrived at the Shaunizes town, and are as follows, viz.—Cherikee, Chicasaw, Coweta, Chuckta and Musco. Three of these tribes are from west Florida, and it is said that the tribe of Chuckta alone consists of 5000 fighting men. Wednesday 25th. We were visited by Mr. McCormick and Mr. Dawson, traders from lower Sandusky who came purposely to see us. There were in company with them several of our people who had been made prisoners by the Wyandote tribe of Indians and the Indians as an indulgence had permitted them to live with the traders who paid them for their labour. These two gentle- men gave us an invitation to go and see them at a house they had four miles from where we lay, which was kept by a person em- ployed by them. We accepted their invitation and pledged our- selves to wait on them the next day. 260
Page 261
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 47 Thursday 26th. As soon as our horses came up in the morn- ing we set out according to promise, accompanied by his Majesty King Pipe, and Peter his nephew, who conducted us to the place. The gentlemen received with friendship and showed much civility, and after dinner they showed us the ground where Capt. Colwell who commanded a company of rangers, disposed of them to attack Col. Crawford, and also where the Indians were posted, a place with many natural advantages and promised victory to an inferior number, and all Col. Crawford's men would certainly have fallen had not Lieut. Rose and a few volunteers who were advanced discovered the ambuscade and retreated in time to save the troops from falling into it. These gentlemen mentioned many matters respecting the engagement, and said it was owing to the folly of the Shaunizes Indians that Mr. Rose had so early dis- covered them. Friday 27th. Were visited this day by a Jacob Barton who had been made prisoner by the Wyandotes, and who had been with them several times at war. He told us of others who had been at war also, and added that many amongst the Shaunize tribe, who had not been prisoners more than two years, far outdone them in cruelty to any of our unfortunate people that fell into their hands. Saturday 28th. Nothing this day worth notice. Sunday 29th. This day passed in silence. Monday 30th. This morning the chief of the Delawares determined to set out for Detroit, and not wait the return of the messenger that he had sent to his people who lived among the Shaunizes, and accordingly at 11 o'clock we set out in company with his Majesty. Kept a course west of north for 12 miles where we halted to refresh. After an hours halt moved on and kept the same course for eight miles where we halted for the night. The country that we rode through today is an entire swamp excepting 261
Page 262
48 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES four miles of a plain, and notwithstanding it is wet and swampy it carries a great deal of good timber, the largest white oak and walnut I ever saw. Here I suffered exceedingly from the assaults of the moschetoes; they were larger and more of them than I had ever before saw. Tuesday July 5th, 1783. Moved on at 7 o'clock keeping in the same course, and in six miles crossed a creek 10 yards wide and kept the course of the creek for four miles and then quit it, soon crossed another near the same size and in two miles crossed a third larger and much wider than any of the others mentioned. Crossed the creek and in riding three miles halted to refresh at the forks of the road, where one leads to the Mining Town and the other to Detroit. After two hours halt moved on and in 5 miles met Mr. Elliot who had been detached by the Commanding Officers at Detroit to prevent our speaking with the Indians. He was also directed to conduct us to Detroit. On meeting us he turned and took us to a trading house of Mr. Abott's and Sander- sons on the Taway River or the Meame [Miami], where we halted for the night and was very well entertained. All this day we trav- eled through a swamp, still the timber good. In all 27 miles. Wednesday 2nd* at 9 o'clock we started and kept down the river which is beautiful, and a great number of Islands which the Indians live on heighten the prospect. We continued down the River eight miles, the road and land good. On our way down the river we saw the standing rock, which was the camp of the French calling it Tough DeBourse. After quiting the river we crossed a swamp of four miles when we halted to refresh. After two hours halt moved on, crossed a small creek and rode over sandy ridges. Encamped at sunset on a small creek and continued the night. Our course since leaving the river west of north, in all 27 miles. Thursday 3rd. Started at 2 o'clock, kept on North East of * Here the dates seem to be mixed. 262
Page 263
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 49 Camp, passed several small creeks and one large, about 100 yards wide, called the River Rizen. It is a bold running stream, and they who have been much on it says that the Indians have five towns on it a long way up— They are chiefly Picks and Chipaways that live on it—after riding 24 miles we halted to refresh on the bank of a small creek. After an hours halt moved on and in six miles came to River Earen.1 It is about 20 yards wide and at no time fordable owing to its connection with Lake Erie. We found on the water a small bark canoe that we and our baggage crossed in. Our horses swam. As soon as everything was over we moved on; passed many bad swamps and in six miles came to the Detroit River, where we encamped all night. Our course in general today east of north. The land we rode through today is a mixture of good and bad. In all 36 miles. Friday 4th. Moved on this morning at 6 o'clock and kept up the Detroit river Ocorse2' 30 yards broad. This river we ferried, though at times it can be rode. As soon as our baggage was over we moved on and in three miles came to the River Ruch.8 It is about 20 yards broad and is at no time fordable. From this river to Mr. Browns is one mile and a half, where we halted to breakfast and clean ourselves, being within one-half mile of Detroit. 1 Huron. 2 Kcoree. 8 Rouqe. 263
Page 264
REPORT OF EPHRAIM DOUGLASS TO THE SEC- RETARY OF WAR, 1783. PRINCETON, 18th August, 1783. Sir: In obedience to the instructions you honored me with on the 5th of May last, I have used every endeavour in my power to execute in the fullest manner your orders, and give effect to your wishes; and though I have not had all the success I at first hoped, I flatter myself the following report will not only shew that I have attempted all in my power, but that essential good consequences may justly be hoped from my endeavours to obey your Commands/. On the 7th of June, I left Fort Pitt and travelling about two hundred miles by the old trading path, ar- rived on the 16th. at the Delaware and Huron settlements on the Sandusky River, but before I reached the villages I fell in with two young Delawares 'who had known me formerly, appeared rejoiced to see me, and conducted me to the principal town of that Tribe. Captain Pipe, who is the principal man of the Nation, received me with every demonstration of joy, welcomed me in the most friendly manner and treated me with greater Civility than is usual with them in time of profound Peace. In a speech of gratulation which he delivered on my arrival, he felicitated me and my Companions on our safety through a long and dangerous wilderness, and himself, on seeing his brethren of the United States once more enter his door in a peaceable and friendly manner; but told me, as his Nation was not the principal one, nor had voluntarily engaged in the War, it would be proper for me first to communicate my business to the Hurons and Shau- neze, and afterwards to the Delawares. That he had announced my arrival to the Hurons, and expected such of them as were 264
Page 265
EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 51 at home would very shortly be over to see and welcome me. This soon happened as he had expected, but as none of their Chiefs were present, I declined speaking publickly to them, knowing that I could receive no authentic answer, and unwilling to expend unnecessarily the Wampum I had prepared for this occasion. I informed them for their satisfaction, of the peace with England, and told them that the United States were disposed to be in friendship with the Indians also—desired them to send for their head men, particularly for the Half King, who had gone to De- troit; to send also to the Shauneze and such of the Six Nations and Delawares as live on the Miami River, and that when these were all present, I would deliver to them publickly the particulars of the business I was charged with. They all readily agreed to this proposal, and returned to their homes apparently very well satisfied; but the Hurons neverthe- less failed sending to Detroit, partly thro' the want of authority in the old men present, and partly through the assurances of the wife of the half King, who was confident her Husband would be home in two days, and therefore a journey which would require six or seven was altogether unnecessary. The Pipe sent away for those on the Miami agreeable to his promise, and learning that Mr. Elliot, one of the agents in the Indian Department, resided with the Shauneze and must neces- sarily be acquainted with my coming, I wrote to him by the Pipe's Express, requesting him to concur with our Messenger in com- municating to the Shauneze, and that I was charged with a Mes- sage from the United States and desired them to attend as soon as possible. I also gave him an invitation to be present if he could make it convenient. Though I promised to myself very little from this Letter, I knew it could do no possible harm, and though I did not hope he would give himself any trouble to serve me, I thought the possibility that the compliment of it might prevent his opposition worth the trouble of writing it. 265
Page 266
52 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES On the evening of the 18th a runner arrived from the Miami with intelligence that Mr. Elliot had received dispatches from Detroit announcing the arrival of Sir John Johnson at that place, that in consequence, the Chiefs and Warriors were desired to repair thither in a few days, where a Council would be held with them. They were also directed to take with them the War or Tomahawk Belts, which had been delivered to them by the King to strike the Americans with. This was an intimation which had been long expected but never till now received; for though they had been repeatedly forbidden to continue at War against the Americans the Tomahawk had still remained in their hands, which is a deviation from the ancient Customs of the Indians, and there- fore the more astonishing to them. I perceived that this invitation would necessarily draw off a number of the principal men, but determined to wait the return of our Messenger before I would take any further resolution, and in this suspence I continued till the evening of the 22d, when he returned with speeches from the Chiefs in that Quarter, imparting that they had made every preparation for coming agreeable to our requests to hear what I had to say to them, but just when they were ready to mount their horses, they were stopped by the arrival of ten men who preceded a body of sixty other Southern Indians coming upon business from the Nations North and East of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. That in consequence of their coming they would be obliged to delay their visit to us for a few days, but would not fail to come so soon as they heard the busi- ness of these people; could not however determine how soon. The intervention of this unexpected delay, the uncertainty where it would end—the anxiety of the Sandusky Indians to obey the summons from Detroit, the absence of the Half King, who was no longer expected till after the Treaty there, and the cer- tainty of receiving no answer when he was not in Council, induces 266
Page 267
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 53 me to yield to the importunity of the Pipe, and attend to his representations. He pressed me to accompany him to Detroit, assuring me that it would be useless to wait the coming of the Indians from the Miami, that they would spend their time in useless Counseling there till the Treaty at Detroit would come on, and that if I even could assemble them I could obtain nothing from the Interview—That if the Half King was present he would not undertake to give me an answer without consulting the Chiefs of the Huron Tribe at Detroit, and that these would determine another without first asking the advice of their Father the Commandant. Finding that I had little hope from continuing at Sanduskyr and likely to effect as little by visiting the Miami if my Horses, had even been able to have performed the Journey, I determined to proceed to Detroit by the nearest route, though I began to be doubtful I should not succeed in my wishes there; determined however to leave nothing unattempted which promised even a probability of success, I concurred with the Pipe in a message to the Miami Indians, desiring that rather than wait to hear the dispatches of these Southern Indians, they should advise them to continue their Journey to Detroit, where they would certainly meet the Six Nations, to whom their business must be ultimately delivered, as the Deputation in consequence of which they had performed so long and difficult a journey, had originally proceeded from them. We desired them to send us an answer in three days what Resolution they would take and when we should meet them where the roads unite, that we might go together to Detroit. We waited till the 29th in hopes of receiving an answer but none came, 'tho we had several Messages, some intimating that they could not come over to us, and desiring the Hurons and Delawares to attend at the Shawnese Towns. Other accounts said the Chiefs of that Nation were gone to Detroit. We now made every preparation for our departure, but fear- 267
Page 268
54 EPHHAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES ing I might not again have so good an opportunity, I made use of this to give the Pipe every information respecting my business, and to explain to him the Preliminary Articles of peace, which I found had not only never been communicated to them by author- ity, but that the accidental information they had occasionally re- ceived had been in some respects contradicted by the Officers of the Crown; particularly that part which relates to the evacuation of the posts on the Lakes. I left Sandusky on the 30th, accompanied by the Pipe and two other Indians in addition to my former Companions, and trav- elled onwards to Detroit till the afternoon of the 1st of July when we were met by Mr. Elliot and three other persons from that place, whom the Commandant had dispatched for the purpose of con- ducting us thither. The Indians who had left the Towns after my arrival had given the intelligence at Detroit, and the Letter I had written to Mr. Elliot had also been carried there by some of those from the Miami. In consequence of this Colonel DePeyster had sent Mr. Elliot to me with a Letter No. I.1 I was now nearly half way from Sandusky to Detroit, and could neither take or alter a resolution in consequence of this Let- ter, but continue my journey with my new companions—till hte 4th when I arrived at Detroit, where I was received with much politeness and treated with great Civility by the Commandant, to whom I delivered your Letter, shewed your instructions and pressed for an opportunity of communicating them to the Indians as soon as might be. He professed the strongest desire of bring- ing about a reconciliation between the United States and the sev- eral Indian Nations,—declared that he would willingly promote it all in his power; but that until he was authorized by his Supe- 1 The papers referred to by numbers have not been found. Some of the letters of Douglass, on this occasion, are given herewith. 268
Page 269
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 55 riors in Command, he could not consent that any thing should be said to the Indians relative to the boundary of the United States; for though he knew from the King's Proclamation that the war with America was at an end, he had had no official information to justify his supposing the States extended to this place, and there- fore could not consent to the Indians' being told so; especially as he had uniformly declared to them, that he did not know these Posts were to be evacuated by the English. He had no objection, he said, to my communicating the friendly offers of the United States,—and would chearfully make known to them the substance of your Letter to him. In the morning of the 5th, I received an intimation from Colonel DePeyster, through Captain McKee, that it was his wish I would go on to Niagara, so soon as I had recovered from the fatigue of my journey. In consequence of this I waited on him in the afternoon, and pressed with greater warmth than yesterday, the necessity of my speaking to the Indians and receiving an answer from them. I pressed him to suffer me to proceed on my business without his interference, and offered him my word that I would say nothing to them respecting the limits of the States, but confine myself to the offer of Peace or choice of War, and the Invitation to Treaty. He would not retract his resolution without further orders from the Commander in Chief, and I was obliged to submit however unwillingly. But must do him the justice to acknowledge that he made every offer of civility and service, except that which he con- sidered inconsistent with his Duty. On the 6th I attended the Council which Colonel DePeyster held with the Indians, to which he had yesterday invited me. After delivering his business of calling them together, he published to them your Letter and pressed them to continue in the strictest amity with the Subjects of the United States,—represented to 269
Page 270
56 EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES them the folly of continuing hostilities, and assured them that he could by no means give them any future assistance against the people of America. At this meeting were the Chiefs of eleven Indian Nations, comprehending all the Tribes as far South as the Wabash. They were Chipewas, Otawas, Wyandots or Hurons, Shawneze, Dela- wares, Kickaboos, Oweochtanoos, Miamis, Pootawotamies and Pienkishas with a part of the Senecas; most of whom gave evident marks of their Satisfaction at seeing a subject of the United States in that Country. They carried their civilities so far that my lodg- ing was all day surrounded with crowds of them when at home, and the Streets lined with them to attend my going abroad; that they might have an opportunity of seeing and saluting me, which they did not fail to do in their best manner, with every demonstra- tion of joy. On the morning of the 7th I took my leave of Colonel De Peyster, after having received more civilities from him than the limits of this report will suffer me to enumerate; but not 'till I had the honor of writing to you by my Guide, whom I directed to re- turn to Fort Pitt so soon as the Pipe should be ready to return to Sandusky, on whom I depended for his safe conduct thither, and to provide one to accompany him to Fort Pitt. I arrived at Niagara on the 11th, was introduced to General MacLean who was prepared for my coming, delivered him Colonel DePeyster's Letter and was received with every mark of atten- tion but he declined entering upon any business this Day. In the morning I waited again on the General at his request. He asked for my Instructions which I produced, and 'afterwards, at his request, the Resolve of Congress alluded to. He expressed an earnest desire that the Indians should live in peace with the United States, declared that he had most effectually put a stop to 270
Page 271
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 57 all hostilities, and had already given you this Information,—that he would be answerable for their future good conduct provided they were not molested by us—regretted that he had not at present such information as would justify his concurring with me, or even permitting me to call the Indians together—that he had every rea- son to expect Sir John Johnson very soon, who he supposed would bring such instructions as would remove every difficulty,—that however he considered the purport of my message anticipated by the pains which had been taken to dispose the Indians to peace, which appeared to be the grand object of Congress. In case Sir John did not arrive in two or three days as he ex- pected he proposed to me the alternative of continuing downward to the Commander in Chief or of furnishing him with Copies of my Instructions and the Resolve of Congress which he would transmit to him for his orders thereon. He lamented that mis- chievous people among us took too much pains to alarm the minds of the Indians in this quarter, by inventing and propagating speeches, which the Indians were taught to believe came from per- sons in power among the Americans. In proof of this he pro- duced the proceedings of a Council lately held with the Indians, which contains an alarming speech said to have been sent to them by General Schuyler. At my request he gave me a Copy of it with his own remarks at the bottom, No. 2. In consequence of this speech and his assurances to the In- dians, the Six Nations had sent to that part of the Oneida Tribe which had remained in the Interest of the States, forbidding them to bring any future messages, but such as was written or otherwise visible in Belts or Strings. That they would be glad to hear in this manner whatever the United States had to say to them. Colonel Butler the Superintendent at the post was sent for and corroborated every thing that the General said of the peace- able disposition of the Indians, unless they were compelled to a con- 271
Page 272
58 EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES trary conduct by the Americans' seizing on their Lands, which both asserted the Six Nations would never quietly submit to. They recommended the measure of Congress sending some person to give them assurances respecting their Lands, if it was their inten- tion to leave them to the natives, and the General offered to pro- mote it with all his Interest, to be answerable for the safety of the Commissioners and also engage for the Indians' good behaviour and willingness to meet the Commissioners of Congress at any place after receiving such assurance. Captain Brant came from the Mohawk Village to see me, and was introduced by the General, in whose presence we had a con- versation on the subject of the Indians' Lands—Brant insisted that they would make a point of having them secured before they would enter into any farther or other Treaty. In the evening I had a private conference with him at his own request, in which I ex- plained to him in the most circumstantial manner every thing re- lating to my business with the Indians, and had a good deal of friendly argument with him on the subject, too long to insert here. On the evening of the 13th, I received a note from the Gen- eral requesting a Copy of my Instructions, &c., to send to the Com- mander in Chief to facilitate business, No. 3. I sent him word that he should be obeyed, and early in the morning I began to exe- cute my promise, but before I had finished copying them, I re- ceived a verbal message that he wished to see me at his quarters. I finished the Copies and waited on him with them. He informed me that he had sent for me to show me the Copy of a Letter he was writing to Colonel DePeyster. It contained instructions to that Gentleman in consequence of my representa- tions of the murders committed by the Western Indians in the course of the last spring, and since by his account, they had been positively forbid to be guilty of any such outrage. He pressed Colonel DePeyster very earnestly to examine into this affair,—to 272
Page 273
EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 59 forbid the Indians in the most positive manner to be guilty of such future misconduct,—to order them to deliver up immediately such prisoners as they had captured through the spring into the hands of himself or his officers,—and further to tell them that if they did not desist from these practices the British Troops would join the Americans to punish them. He afterward read me the Copy of a Letter which he had writ- ten you in answer to yours by Mr. Bull. Not doubting that this Letter is in your possession, I only mention it as it was the intro- duction to an address to me containing the same sentiments, which ended in an intimation that I might return home as soon as I thought proper, and whenever I pleased he would furnish me with a Boat & men to carry me to Oswego, would afford me every other assistance in his power and write to Major Ross the Commandant at that place to give me every assistance I should require. I soon concluded that this invitation to leave the place arose from the importunacy of the Indians to hear publickly the mes- sage which my coming had promised them, and his refusing per- mission to Captain Brant to take me on a visit to the Mohawk Castle convinced me of the justice of this conclusion. I employed such arguments as I expected would be most likely to prevail on him to permit me to speak to the Chiefs pub- lickly before my departure, and answered (as I thought) all his objections, one of which was to that part of my instructions which said the King had been compelled to make peace, which he said would convey to the Indians the Idea of his being conquered, and might induce them to an insolence of behaviour that would become disagreeable to him and perhaps injurious to the service. To re- move every exception on this head I offered to suppress the word compelled but he avoided giving me any direct answer to this pro- posal,—insisted much on the pacific disposition of the Indians, again pledged himself for their behaviour; assured me of their de- 273
Page 274
60 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES sire to cultivate the friendship of the Americans, and declared that he was authorized by the Chiefs to tell me so. He then informed me that previous to my arrival the Chiefs had applied to him to write to his Excellency General Washington on their behalf with offers of friendship, and regretted that he had not such orders as would justify him in doing it, especially before the Superintendent General had made the proper communications to the Indians on the part of the Crown. Frustrated in every attempt to obtain a public audience of the Indians and receive their answer to your message, I wrote to General MacLean on the 16th for his refusal in writing (No. 4) which he immediately gave me (No. 5) and on the same day I set off for Oswego, after having experienced from General Mac- Lean every species of polite attention, except that which duty as well as inclination bid me most wish for, and every civility from his Officers, and from the Officers in General at all the Posts I had occasion to visit. Sensible how difficult it is to say just enough on any subject, I am afraid I have protracted this report to too great a length and yet I suppressed so many remarks and conversations which were interesting at the time, that I am also afraid I have not been sufficiently explicit. I have confined myself to bare recital, with- out any commentary of my own, to avoid the imputation of ob- truding opinion where it might be considered my duty to relate facts existing abstractedly. But I will hope your forgiveness for saying that the assiduity of the British Commanders to restrain the Indians from hostilities still wanted the visit which by your com- mand I have made them, to satisfy the Indians that they had noth- ing to fear from the enmity of the States. They are now con- vinced from my risquing such a journey through their Country and from the communications I have made to them individually on my way, not only of our friendly Sentiments toward them, but 274
Page 275
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 61 also of our confidence in theirs, which must in some degree beget a similar confidence in them. And though I bring no public an- swer from the Chiefs, owing to the motives of duty or policy which opposed it, I think myself sufficiently authorized from the many opportunities I had of learning their Sentiments, both from them- selves and the Whites who are in their confidence, to assert that I know them to be heartily tired of the war and sincerely disposed to Peace. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect Sir, Your very humble and most obedient servant, Ephraim DOUglass. The Honble, Major General Lincoln, Secretary at War.

275
This page contains an image.
Page 276
GEORGE McCULLY NOT much can be ascertained regarding the life of George McCully. One writer has stated that he was acquainted with Ephraim Douglass before the Revolution, and that they were associated in the Indian trade. Another ac- count refers to him as being a land owner in Oxford, Chester County, Pennsylvania in 1774.1 He was in Pittsburg in 1774 and signed the memorial protesting against the acts of John Connolly, who was representing Lord Dunmore.2 In the fall of 1775 a com- pany was raised in Lancaster county for the purpose of joining Arnold in his expedition against Quebec. In the previous June another company, of which William Hendricks was captain, was organized in Cumberland county. This company left Carlisle July 15, 1775, and reached Cambridge on the eighth of August. Subsequently both companies proceeded to Quebec. There were eighty-five men in Hendricks' company and sixty-five in that of Captain Matthew Smith. It is claimed that McCully was in the Arnold expedition, and if he was it is very probable that he was in one of these companies, for these were the only Pennsylvania troops in this expedition. He must have returned home before the siege was completed for we find him commissioned as an ensign in Captain William Butler's company, January 5, 1776, and promoted to Second Lieutenant September 20th following. They were at Ticon- deroga in November, 1776, but the company disbanded and re-en- listed in the Third Pennsylvania Regiment, and McCully was pro- 1 The Journals of the two Companies, written by Capt. William Hendricks and John Joseph Henry are both published in Penn. Arch., 2d Series, Vol. XV. McCully's name is not in any published list of either company. 2 Hist. Alleghany Co., 44. 276
Page 277
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 63 moted to first lieutenant January 1, 1777, and to captain in Octo- ber, 1777. He retained the rank of captain till he retired Janu- ary 17, 1781. Of the other expeditions, skirmishes and battles that McCully was in we have no direct record. He was in the Third Regiment and was frequently promoted, as the records show. The regiment was under the command of Colonel Thomas Craig throughout the war, and was present at the siege of Yorktown, though it took no active part in that affair.8 McCully was at Princeton when Douglass was appointed United States commissioner, and accompanied him from that place to Pittsburg, and so on to Detroit as narrated by him. The journal which we have and which is here reproduced is apparently only a fragment, and not an original document. It is filed in the War Department at Washington, and while a very ancient document, shows evidence of having been copied from some other paper. McCully's travels to Detroit and back to Pennsylvania are set forth in the two journals annexed. Within a short time after his return from the west, and on September 30, 1783,3a he was mar- ried to Ann Irish, daughter of Nathaniel Irish, a Captain in the Artificers.4 She was born December 29, 1760, and survived him. He was commissioned Brevet Major U. S. A. October 10, 1783.5 The Indian troubles in the western part of Pennsylvania did not cease with the making of peace with England, and the gov- * " A third Pennsylvania battalion arrived just as the operations came to an end. It was under Colonel Craig and Lieutenant-Colonel Mentges "—The York- town Campaign, H. P. Johnston, p. 115. 3*0ld Westmoreland, L. 191. * George McCully owned sixty acres of land in Chester, Co., Penn. Arch., 3d series, XII, 71. B Penn. Arch., 2d series, X, 448, 451. 277
Page 278
64 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES eminent fitted out an expedition under General Josiah Har- mar to bring the savages to terms. Harmar met the Indians in battle and was disastrously defeated. In 1791 another expedition was fitted out for the same purpose and placed under the com- mand of General Arthur St. Clair, then governor of the North- west Territory. He also was defeated, and the second defeat so emboldened the Indians that they entertained hopes of being able to drive the white men out of the country. A council with them was called at Philadelphia and an agreement entered into that would ensure future peace, but before the Indian chiefs had re- turned to their homes and tribes, the rangers or scouts from Pitts- burg had shot and murdered many Indians on the frontier, who were claimed to be peaceable and innocent people. Such actions indicated that the white men were not to be trusted, even in their peace-making, and the Indian depredations rapidly increased. General Wayne was entrusted with a third expedition against the Indians in 1792 and assembled an army, for that purpose, at Pitts- burg. Before the appointment of Wayne, McCully had been ap- pointed Major of six months' militia of Pennsylvania and collected three companies to protect the frontier of his state. The itinerary of the next few months is as follows: He was at Fort Franklin December 26, 1791 and, wrote that Cornplanter, the Indian chief, advised that the women at Fort Franklin be immediately sent to Pittsburg for safety.* He then proceeded to Philadelphia to make arrangements for supplies and ammunition, and started for Pittsburg, being nine days on the way, reaching there about March 2, 1792. Not hearing from his officers, who were recruiting, after remaining in Pittsburg a few days he went to Washington, Pennsylvania, and then returned. A deep snow covered the country, and it was not only difficult for troops to march but still more difficult to get them from their homes to enlist. On March 31st he was in Greensburg on his way to the fron- •Penn. Arch., 2d series, IV, 678, 716. i 278
Page 279
EPHBAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 65 tiers of Westmoreland, hurrying up some of the militia. By the sixth of April he had returned to Pittsburg and complained of the unnecessary delay in obtaining camp equipage. He remained in Pittsburg for some time, for there are letters from him as late as May 30th, from that place. During this time he requested Gen- eral Knox, Secretary of War, to give him an appointment in the Rifle corps in the regular army. He was at Coe's Station June 27, 1792, and there his troops shot the first Indian of the season. His report of the transaction is as follows: "One of my scouting parties, under the command of Lieut. Cooper, fell in with two (Indians) twelve miles above Kitaning. They attempted to save themselves by flight, but the guard instantly fired and one fell dead with nine balls through him. I must blush when I mention that they fetched the scalp in." Active preparations by Wayne had been carried on for some time, in the collection of men and materials for his invasion of the Indian country, and as the terms of enlistment of the militia was soon to expire,7 there was1 an effort made to have these men re-enlist in the Federal service in the Legion of the United States, as Wayne's army was officially designated. To accomplish this re- sult, the Secretary of War wrote to Governor Mifflin of Pennsylva- nia, July 11, 1792: "The troops of the United States will soon arrive on the frontiers of this State, in considerable numbers, and a sufficient portion thereof will remain there, until the effect of certain pacific overtures to the Indians shall be T They were enrolled for six months only. 279
Page 280
66 EPHKAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES known. In this state of things and as the time for which the State troops were raised is drawing to a close, I beg leave to know whether it would be compatible with the views and arrangements of your excellency to permit the continental officers recruiting in this State to endeavor to enlist such non-commissioned officers and privates of the said companies, as shall be inclined thereto." * To this letter Secretary Dallas attached a series of proposals relative to the employment of the militia, the fifth item of which was " that a copy of these instructions be sent to Major McCully, inclosed in a letter of thanks to him and his corps, and recommend- ing to the men either to volunteer as spies or to enlist in the Federal troops." 9 Major McCully having entered the service of the United States under Wayne,10 the payment of the militia was entrusted to Colonel John Wilkins, Jr., and he reported on December 21, 1792, that McCully was absent from Pittsburg but was expected to return soon." Wayne delayed his departure from Pittsburg for a long time, for two reasons. First, he was constantly drilling his troops and filling the ranks by enlistment, feeling that the principal causes for the defeats of Harmar and St. Clair were that their soldiers were not prepared to meet an enemy fighting as the Indians did. Sec- ond, negotiations were proceeding on the part of the government looking to a general treaty with the Indians that would terminate • . ..* • Penn. Arch., 2d series, IV, 732. • Penn. Arch., 2d series, vol. IV, 734, 740. 10 The orderly books of General Wayne are printed in vol. 34, of Mich. Pion. and Hut. Soc. Collection*. Some of the books were lost and the record is therefore imperfect. 11 There are three letters on this subject in Penn. Arch., 2d ser., vol. IV, 742, 743, and 744. 280
Page 281
EPHKAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 67 the depredations and prevent the invasion of their country.12 In November or December, 1792, Wayne marched with his army from Pittsburg, but went only a short distance, to Legionville, where he remained until the eighth of the following May. Major McCully was appointed hospital store keeper at Hob- son's Choice August 3, 1793, and continued to hold that position until his death.1* He resided on the Monongahela River at the mouth of Nine Mile Run above Pittsburg and died at Fort Washington, Novem- ber 24, 1793," then being in the Commissary department under Colonel James O'Hara. Kc His widow, Ann, was allowed a pension September 11, 1837. She was then residing at Pittsburg with Boyle Irwin, who had married her only child, Eliza McCully. 12 A detailed account of this attempt at a treaty is given in Mich. Pion. and Hit. Soc., 81, 477. "Mich. Hitt. Soc., 34, page 460. 14 Fort Washington was at Cincinnati. Wayne's army had left this place in October and had proceeded north, leaving McCully with the garrison at the fort. 281
Page 282
NOTES Arent Schuyler DePeyster was one of the New York family of that name, which has given so many distinguished members to the public service, the latest being General John Watts DePeyster, (1821-1909). Arent was the great-grandson of Johannes, founder of the family (1600- 1685). Born in New York City, June 27, 1736, he entered the British army (Eighth Foot) in 1755, and during the Revolution was in command at Detroit and various places in Canada, and exercised a great influence over the Indians, whom he made firm adherents to the British cause. He became Colonel of his regiment and finally sailed for Great Britain, settling in Dumfries, Scotland, where he remained until his death in November, 1832. He was the oldest officer in the British army at the time. In Dumfries he aided in raising a regiment of militia for defense against the expected French invasion. Robert Burns was a member of the force, and dedicated his poem of Life to Colonel DePeyster. All the family were Tories during the Revolution. Abraham, nephew of our subject was second in command at King's Mountain. Frederick, Abraham's brother, was a captain in the " New York Volunteers," and James, a lieutenant in the " King's Americans." Allan MacLean (1725-1781) was; with Wolfe at Quebec and was the main- stay of the defense of Quebec against Arnold and Montgomery in 1775. He was afterward stationed at Fort Niagara, and took part with his regiment at Eutaw Springs. He eventually became a brigadier-general. He is frequently confounded with Sir Allan MacLean, of Torloisk, Scotland, an entirely different person. Appletons' Cyclo. of Am. Biog. makes this mistake.) 282
Page 283
T HE following are copies and extracts from letters per- taining to the expedition. Extract from a letter ofj DePeyster to MacLean dated Detroit, July 7, 1783. Mich. Hist. Soc. XX. 137. "The (Indian) chiefs are very thinly accompanied, most of the Indians being out hunting. Those who came in, are the principals who otherwise would have been spoken with by two Deputies from Congress, whom Mr. Elliott met within a few miles of this place on their direct road hither. These sir, are Mr. Douglass and Captain McCully mentioned in the dispatch I lately sent you. Mr. Douglass appears to be a shrewd, sensible man, his companion rather more open—both genteel men. They delivered me a letter directed to the officer commanding His Britannic Majesty's Forces at Detroit. This letter is nearly a direct copy of the one sent you from General Lincoln dated at Philadelphia 3d May, 1783. I observed to Mr. Douglass that the subject of General Lincoln's Letter should be by me communicated, to the Indians. They, however, have been long since restrained from go- ing to war, by orders of His Excellency the Commander in Chief. Then Mr. Douglass showed me his Instruc- tions which are of such a nature that I can by no means admit of their being delivered to the Indians here, where His Excellency's final orders are not yet arrived. I ob- served that as Commandant of Detroit, I was yet unin- formed that the Posts were to be given up, or how the line was to strike. He then observed that Congress took it for granted that I had received my orders before now. I have made these gentlemen sensible that the Indians in r 283
Page 284
70 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES the vicinity of Detroit will (even should the Post be given up) fall on the other side. That therefore they cannot listen to them, and that the Delawares, Shawa- nese, Wiandotts, Mingoes, &c., will never act but with the concurrence of the Six Nations, on whose determina- tion Peace or War with those Indians will much depend, and as the business they are come upon is of a very deli- cate nature I advise them to wait upon you at Niagara, where they may also have the chance to meet with the Superintendent-General and Inspector-General of In- dian Affairs, which they have agreed to, and I have al- lowed their guide to return to Fort Pitt, lest the People there should be alarmed at their being detained." Extract from a letter of Major DePeyster to Brig. Gen. MacLean, dated Detroit, July 17, 1783. In Mich, Hit. Soc. XX. 145. "You will, I hope, before this reaches you, have dis- patched the Missionaries from General Lincoln, round by Oswego, or Lake Champlain; it would now be very dangerous for them to travel from hence to Port Pitt." Extract from a letter of Gen. MacLean to DePeyster, dated at Niagara, July 8, 1783. Mich. Hist. Soc. XX, 138. "I am favored with your letter of the 29th June enclos- ing the copy . of a letter from Ephraim Douglas to Capt. Elliott of the Indian Dept. Ephraim is a suspicious name, I therefore am glad you have sent to bring him in to Detroit, for we really cannot be too much on our guard against these designing Knaves, for I do not be- lieve the world ever produced a more deceitful or dan- gerous set of men than the Americans: and now they are become such Arch-Politicians by eight years' practice, that were old Matchioavell1 alive, he might go to school 1 Machiavelli. 284
Page 285
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 71 to the Americans to learn Politics more crooked than his own; we therefore cannot be too cautious. It is some- thing very extraordinary that Mr. Douglass should at- tempt to assemble the Indians under your nose, and even write for one of your own principal Indian Mana- gers to come and wait upon him with one of your Inter- preters, without taking the least notice of you. I should apprehend his first step ought to have been to come to Detroit and produce his Credentials to you. The Americans being now Independent States will say, they have a right to send Ambassadors or Emissaries to whom they please, without our consent—no doubt they may to all nations that we know of but in the present case, with respect to our Indians, I am of a different opinion, it being clearly an exception to the Rule—The Indians get this day from the King's Stores the bread they are to eat to-morrow, and from his magazines the clothing that covers their nakedness; in short, they are not only our allies, but they are a part of our Family; and the Ameri- cans might as well (while we are in possession of these Posts) attempt to seduce our children & servants from their duty and allegiance, as to convene and assemble all the Indian Nations, without first communicating their intentions to His Majesty's Representative in Canada These are my sentiments, and I shall not alter them till I am otherwise instructed by the Commander in Chief; and if any such person as Ephraim Douglas comes to assem- ble the Six Nations I shall certainly bring him in here and keep him till I send for Instructions to General Haldimand. Mr. Douglas must be a curious fellow truly, in writing to Capt. Elliot that he may assure the Indians, that what they have received from any other Quarter, but through 285
Page 286
72 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES him is without the sanction or authority of the United States. He does not know then, that I had a Letter from General Washington on that subject, and another Letter from General Lincoln, President of the Board of War of the United States, wrote by the express order of Con- gress—His ignorance of these matters would make me imagine that he is an arch imposter." Extract from a letter of Brig. Gen. Allan MacLean to Gen. Frederick Haldimand, dated Niagara, July 9, 1783. In Mich. Hist. Soc, XX, 140: Herewith I have the honor to transmit to your Excel- lency the Copy of a Letter I received from Major De- peyster together with the copy of a Letter wrote by one Ephraim Douglas. Mr. Douglas's Letter explains it- self so fully that I need not trouble your Excellency by saying anything about it. I wrote to Major DePey- ster yesterday on the subject of Mr. Douglass' mission, and I herewith enclose a copy of my letter to Major De- peyster for your Excellency's Perusall, in hopes that you may approve of my sentiments on the subject; but that if on the contrary you should disapprove of my ideas that you will send me instructions how to act, for I really confess the present conduct of the Americans is very new to me, and that I am at a loss how to treat people that act in so uncommon a manner, at the same time, I am fully de- termined to act in the manner I have mentioned to Major Depeyster, till I have the good fortune to receive your Excellency's farther orders how I am to act with this im- pudent people. There is little doubt but the Delaware Indians that came to Cadaragows, are come at the request of Mr. Ephraim Douglas—at least I suspect that to be the case.

386
Page 287
EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES 73 Extract from a letter of Brig. Gen. Allan MacLean to Gen. Fred- erick Haldimand, dated Niagara, July 17, 1783. In Mich. Hist. Soc., XX, 146: SIR: I have the honor herewith to transmit to your Excel- lency Copies of two Letters from Major DePeyster, which letters will inform you of the Proceedings of the Major, respecting the Comissioners of Congress to the Indian Nations. On the Evening of the 10th these Com- missioners arrived here, where they were treated with every kind of civility and freedom, excepting that of com- municating their Instructions to the Six Nations, that being a matter beyond my reach, without first having your Excellencys orders—Indeed the nature of these Instruc- tions was such as, in my humble opinion, rendered them improper to be communicated to the Six Nations, while we remain in the possession of the Upper Posts, Except your Excellency should order the contrary— Mr. Doug- las appears to be a shrewd, sensible man, but he has con- ducted himself while here with Propriety, yet I found it would be impossible to detain him and his companion here, to wait for your Excellency's Instructions, or the arrival of Sir John Johnson (as either of these events were uncertain) without their having opportunities of frequent intercourse with the Indians as Mr. Douglas speaks several different dialects of the Indian Nations, and notwithstanding all my attention Captain Brant had a conversation with them, but it was of his seeking and not theirs; I therefore found it necessary to let them go, after remaining here six days and I sent a Batteau with Serjeant and seven of the King's men and 34th [Regiment] to conduct them, to Oswego, sober good men; they went off Perfectly contented with their reception here. I also 287
Page 288
74 EPHRAIM DOUGLASS AND HIS TIMES enclosed for your Excellency's Information a copy of Mr. Douglas's Instructions and also a copy of a Resolve of Congress upon which these Instructions are founded, and I request that I may honored be with your commands, to direct me how I am to act. I had some conversation with Mr. Douglass, and he candidly confessed, that part of his instructions had much better been omitted; I had almost told him they were insolent; but I thought it was best to be moderate. Mr. Douglass and his companion Capt. McCully left this on the 16th, at one o'clock, at Twelve I received a Letter from him, and at one I sent him an answer; copy of his Letter with my answer I have the honor, to trans- mit to your Excellency—had I proposed to these Com- missioners to go to Canada I am convinced they would have accepted of the offer, but I did not think it was proper or necessary at this time to give your Excellency that trouble, as they had no authority for that purpose. Upon the whole I have endeavoured to act in this Busi- ness as I thought best for His Majesty's Service, and I am not without hopes that both Major .Depeyster's con- duct and my own, will meet with your Excellency's ap- probation. 288
Page 289
Blank page
Page 290
Blank page
Page 291
Blank page
Page 292
Blank page
Page 293
This reproduction of the original map in the Lenox Library, Neiu York, it about one-quarter size.
Page 294
Blank page
Page 294
Blank page
Page 294
Blank page
Page 294
As near a facsimile of the original as possible. SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT BY THE REBELS; CONTAINING A JOURNAL of the PROCEEDINGS o r His MAJESTY'S FORCES detached from the 74th and 82d RE- GIMENTS, confifting of about 700 Rank and File, under the Command of Brigadier-General FRANCIS M'LEAN, A N D O f THREE of His MAJESTY'S SLOOPS of WAR, of 16 Guns each, under the Command of Captain HENRY MOWAT, Senior Officer; WHIN BESIEGED BY THREE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED (Rebel) Land Forces, under the Command of Brigadier.General Solomon Lowell, AND SEVENTEEN Rebel Ships and Veffels of War, under the Com- mand of G. Sallon/talt, Commodore. TO WHICH IS ANNEXED A PROCLAMATION iffued June 15, 1779, by General M'LEAN and Captain BARCLAY to the Inhabitants; ALSO Brigadier-General Lo-vetl'j PROCLAMATION to the Inha- bitants; and his LETTER to Commodore Sallonflall, found on board the Rebel Ship Hunter; TOGETHER WITH The Names, Force, and Commanders, of the Rebel Ships deftroyed in PENOBSCOT BAY and RIVER, Augufi 14 and IS, 1779. WITH A CHART of the Peninfula of MAJABIGWADUCE, and of PENOBSCOT River. TO WHICH IS SUBJOINBD A POSTSCRIPT, wherein a fhort Account of the Country of PENOBSCOT is given. By J. C. Efq. a Volunteer. LONDON: Printed for G. KBARSLHY, in Flut.S trtit, and ASHBY and NHELI, (late SPILSBURY'S) in Rufil.Ciurl, Cmnl.Gtrdn. H,DCC,LXXXI. NEW YORK Reprinted WILLIAM ABBATT (Being Extra No. 11 of THE MAGAZINE OF HISTORY WITH NOTES AND QUERIES.) 1910
Page 294
Blank page
Page 294
THE SIEGE of PENOBSCOT; CONTAINING A JOURNAL of the PROCEEDINGS O F His Majesty's Forces againft the Rebels in July, 1779: AND A POSTSCRIPT, giving iome Account of the Country, &c. Sec.
Page 294
Blank page
Page 295
EDITOR'S PREFACE THE "Siege of Penobscot," so called, was the attempt of the Colony of Massachusetts Bay to dislodge the British from the peninsula of Majabagaduce,* where the pres- ent town of Castine, Maine, now is, a most historic local- ity. The British landed June 17, 1779, and began work toward the building of a fort which, at first, was called Fort Castine and later Fort George, for the King. It had been decided to establish there a military post where ships could bring their prizes and where the Loyalists of New England could have a place of refuge. The Loyalists availed themselves of this privilege until the place became a considerable village. The British idea was that if the Colonists secured their independence the boundary line between the United States and Can- ada would not be east of the Penobscot, and in that event they would have a fort already built, at the head of Penobscot Bay, in a very advantageous situation. The territory between the Penobscot and St. Croix rivers would become a new province, of which Castine would be the capital. The attempt to dislodge the British by the Massachusetts Bay Colony was the largest of our Revolutionary naval undertakings, but was a deplorable failure. It is said to have cost the Colony £1,739,174: 11.4 d. when their finances were at a very low ebb. The Americans were seized with a panic, their ships destroyed and the people were disheartened. The cause of the failure was the conduct of Saltonstall, the commander of the fleet, and the un- preparedness of the expedition. The land forces were hastily * This name was spelled in several ways. 295
Page 296
8 EDITORS PREFACE gathered without regard to their personnel. The navy was little better. Commodore Saltonstall refused to co-operate with the land forces at the proper time. General Lovell was a brave officer of good reputation, but had not had the necessary experience in actual warfare. General Wadsworth, the second in command was the best officer of the expedition, and his conduct during the whole affair received the approbation of the Committee of Investigation. The general officers were: Commander in Chief, Brigadier General Solomon Lovell, of Weymouth, Mass.; Second in authority, Brigadier General Peleg Wadsworth, of Duxbury, Mass., afterwards of Portland, Maine. He was the grandfather of the poet H. W. Longfellow. Comman- der of the Fleet, Commodore Dudley Saltonstall, of New Haven, Conn. When the attack was made the fort was not half built and the British commander, McLean, expected to surrender to save the lives of his soldiers and it is said he stood by the halyards ready to lower his flag at the proper moment, but because of the conduct of Saltonstall it was not necessary. The expedition was called by the people of Maine, "The Bagaduce Expedition," and ever afterwards was a subject of discussion among them. Maine fur- nished most of the soldiers and something of the navy. Another expedition was proposed in 1780, but was abandoned by the advice of Washington. The British withdrew from Fort George before January, 1784, and it was the last fort from which the King's forces were embarked, at the end of the war. Most of the Loyalists went to St. Andrews, N. ~S., where land had been granted them and where sixty or seventy houses were erected for their occu- pancy. They took down several houses at Castine and re-erected them at St. Andrews. Nathan Goold. Portland, Me. 296
Page 297
PERSONAL NOTES DR. JOHN CALEF This journal was identified as the work of Dr. John Calef by his name appearing on the map. He had taken part in the siege of Louisburg and it is said he left a manuscript account of that event which has been lost. He was an important man in his time. Dr. Cialef, which name was also spelled Calfe, Calf, Caleff and Kaloph, was born in Ipswich, Mass, Aug. 30, 1726, the son of Robert and Margaret (Staniford) Calef. His grandparents were Dr. Joseph and Mary (Ayer) Calef of Ipswich, who were married in Boston, May 2, 1693. The parents of Dr. Joseph were Robert arid Mary Calef of Roxbury, Mass. Robert Calef was the author of "More Wonders of the Invisible World," which antagonized Cotton and Increase Mather, about 1692. It was publicly burned on the campus of Harvard College by the orders of the latter, who was then president of the college. In 1755, the Governor ordered Dr. Calef to Fort Halifax,* on the Kennebec River, now in the town of Winslow, Maine, to attend the sick. He found his services much needed by the garri- son and remained about two months. He also went there again in 1772. He engaged, as surgeon, in Colonel Ichabod Plaisted's regi- ment Feb. 18, 1756, to go to Crown Point, and was discharged Jan. 19, 1757, remaining at the Albany hospital. He served in the Massachusetts General Court before the Revolutionary War, but remained loyal to the King and became obnoxious to the Colon- ists. He was declared by them a traitor, and a price was set upon his head. By the energy of his wife, he escaped capture and went to St. Andrews, N. B. * Fort Halifax was at the junction of the Kennebec and Sebasticook rivers in the present town of Winslow, Maine. It was built by Governor William Shirley of Massachusetts in 1755, and was named for the Duke of Halifax. A full history of the Fort by Hon. William Goold, was published in the. Collections of the Maine Historical Society, First Series, Vol. 8, page 199. 297
Page 298
10 PERSONAL NOTES Dr. Calef was active in the Penobscot expedition and was Commissary of the inhabitants in the County of Lincoln, Maine. He was the surgeon at Fort George and acted as chaplain. In 1780, he went to England as an agent of the Penobscot Loyalists. The scheme was that the country between the Saco and the St. Croix Ravers was to be erected into a new province to be called "New Ireland." Thomas Oliver was to be governor, Daniel Leon- ard, chief justice, and Dr. Calef the clerk of the council at a salary of £50. The land was to be granted to the Loyalists in large tracts to the most meritorious with small grants to the poorest. It was to be a landed country. The English church was to be the established religion. This scheme was approved of by the King and his Cabinet, but was unsuccessful. Dr. Calef remained in England two years, when he revived the effort, but it received its death blow from a decision of the Attorney General of Eng- land that it violated the sacredness of the chartered rights of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, and he was informed that it could not be done as " the pressure is too strong." In 1784, Dr. Calef was one of the grantees of St. Andrews, N. B., and was the first physician to settle there, where he built a house. After the war he was surgeon of the general hos- pital at St. John, N. B., and was attached to the garrison, then stationed at Fort Howe. After October, 1800, he returned to St. Andrews where he resided until his death, which occurred Oct. 23, 1812, at the age of 86 years. Dr. Calef married, first, Margaret Rogers, daughter of Rev. Nathaniel and Mary (Leverett) Rogers of Ipswich, who died March 27, 1751; second, Jan. 18, 1753, Dorothy Jewett, daughter of Rev. Jedidiah and Elizabeth (Dummer) Jewett, both of Row- ley, Mass. Children by first wife were: 1. Margaret, born Oct. 15,1748; married Oct. 14,1767, Dr. Daniel Scott of Boston. 298
Page 299
PERSONAL NOTES 11 2. Mary, bapt. March, 1750; married Capt. John Dutch of Ipswich. By second marriage: 3. John, born Nov. 2, 1753; drowned Feb. 19, 1782. 4. Jedidiah, born Sept. 22, 1755; died March 10, 1778. 5. Elizabeth, born Oct. 25, 1757; died Sept. 7, 1771. 6. Daughter, still-born May 1, 1759. 7. Robert, born Nov. 16, 1760. 8. Dorothy, born Nov. 16, 1762. 9. Sarah, born June 27, 1764; died in St. Andrews, N. B., March 25, 1854, unm. 10. Susanna, bom Feb. 7, 1766. 11. A son still-born Jan., 1768. 12. Mehitable, born Sept. 18, 1768; married Capt. David Mowat Nov. 14, 1786, and died at St. Andrews, N. B., Dec. 25, 1860, aged 92 years. 13. Martha, born May 22, 1770; died Sept. 23, 1771. 14. Samuel, bor n July 20, 1772; alive at 17. 15. Daughter, still-born, April 12, 1775. 16. Daughter, still-bom, Aug. 22, 1776. 17. Jedidiah Jewett, born Jan. 22, 1778. An extended sketch of the Caleff family by David Russell Jack, was published in Acadienm, Vol. 7, p. 261-273, July, 1907, which enabled the writer to verify these facts he had already ob- tained from other sources. Dr. John Calef spelled his name with one f, on the map and in his signature to five letters examined by the writer, although the family seemed to have added another f later. «99
Page 300
12 PERSONAL NOTES GENERAL FRANCIS McLEAN Brigadier General Francis McLean, also called a Maj or-General, whose name was properly spelled MacLean, was the son of Captain William, who was the grandson of Lachlan, the first of the family of Blaich and second of John Crubach, eighth MacLean of Ardgour. As soon as he was able to carry arms Francis obtained a commission in the same regiment with his father, a regiment of Scottish troops maintained in the Ihitch service. He was at the siege of Bergen-op-Zoom in 1747, when the French, after a siege of two months, took the place by storm. "Lieutenants Francis and Allan MacLean (third son of Torloisk) of the Scotch brigade were taken prisoners and carried before Gen- eral Lowendahl, who thus addressed them: 'Gentlemen, consider yourself on parole. If all had conducted themselves as you and your brave corps have done, I should not now be master of Bergen-op-Zoom.'" He was detained prisoner in France for some time; and on his release was promoted to a captaincy and en- tered the Forty-second Royal Highlanders. At the capture of Gaudaloupe, Francis was severely wounded, but owing to his gallant conduct was promoted to the rank of major and appointed Governor of the island of Marie Galante. He served in Canada under Wolfe but returned to Great Britain and embarked with the expedition for reducing the island of Belleisle on the coast of France. Here he had his right arm shattered and was taken prisoner. On being ex- changed, his bravery was rewarded by promotion to the lieutenant-colonelcy of the 82d. In 1762, he was sent to aid the Portuguese against the combined attack of France and Spain. He was made commander of Almeida, a fortified town on the Spanish frontier, which command he held for several years and was nomi- nated to the government of Estremadura and the City of Lisbon. On his leaving Portugal in 1778, the king presented him with a handsomely mounted sword, and the queen gave him a valuable diamond ring. On his return to England he was dispatched to America and appointed to the government of Halifax. He re- paired with the army in June, 1779, to Penobscot Bay and proceeded to erect defences. His regiment had arrived at Halifax from England in 1778. After the completion of Fort George, McLean and his regiment returned to Halifax where he died, unmarried, May 4, 1781, in his 64th year and was buried two days later. General McLean was a good officer and left a good impression on those with whom he came in contact on the Penobscot. 300
Page 301
PERSONAL NOTES 13 GENERAL SOLOMON LOVELL General Solomon Lovell was born in Abington, Mass., June 1, 1732, and married (1) Jan. 19, 1758, Lydia, daughter of John and Sarah (Hunt) Hol- brook, who was born in Weymouth, Mass., Sept. 3, 1734, and died May 21, 1761. She had two children. He married (2) in May, 1762, Hannah, daughter of James and Hannah (Reed) Pittey, born Dec. 8, 1730, and died July 8, 1795. She had seven children. General Lovell was the son of David and Mary (Tor- rey) Lovell, and a descendant of Robert Lovell who went to Weymouth in 1635. His father was a graduate of Harvard in 1725. Solomon Lovell was from youth in some official capacity of his town, and became actively engaged in the cause of the Colonies during the Revolution, and was promoted through the different grades to a brigadier-general. He com- manded the military division of which Boston was the center. He served under Gen. John Sullivan in Rhode Island and commanded the land forces in the Penob- scot Expedition of 1779, and was commended for his services. He died Sept. 9, 1801, aged 69 years. It has been said of him that " he was honest, brave and competent, faithful in all the relations of life, carrying the respect and esteem of all with whom it was his privilege to associate." 801
Page 302
14 PERSONAL NOTES BIBLIOGRAPHY. History of Castine, Maine, Wheeler. History of Maine, Williamson. Weymouth, Massachusetts, Historical Society's Collection, Vol. II. Maine Historical Society's Collections. History of Col. Jonathan Mitchell's Cumberland County Regt. 1779, by Nathan Goold. 302
Page 303
A JOURNAL ON the 17th day of June, 1779, Brigadier-General Francis McLean landed at Majabidwaduce (Penobscot), with about 700 of his Majesty's forces, composed of detach- ments from the 74th* and 82d** regiments, to take post in the east- ern country of New England. The time from this day to the 17th of July was taken up in clearing a spot to erect a fort and building the same, and a battery near the shore, with store-houses, etc. July 18. Intelligence was received that a fleet and army were pre- paring at Boston to besiege Penobscot, of which but little notice was taken. Capt. Henry Mowat, of his Majesty's sloop Albany, having been many years on the American station and well acquainted with the disposition of the inhabitants, and of the importance of the country of Penobscot to the Americans for fire-wood, lumber, masts, cod and river fish, gave credit to the information, and ordered the three sloops of war into the best situation to defend the harbour, annoy the Enemy and co-operate with the land forces. July 19. The intelligence of yesterday gains credit; whereupon the General, in order to make the proper dispositions for an * The 74th Foot, "The Argyle Highlanders," was raised by the Duke of Hamilton and served in America four years, under John Campbell. Milltown, New Brunswick, and a tract of good farming land on the Digdequash, were granted to the officers and men of this regiment who had beenj in the garrison on the Penobscot. ** The 82nd Foot, " The Hamilton Regiment," served in America four years and was under Sir William Erskine in 1779- After the completion of Fort George, at Castine, this regiment returned to Halifax with General McLean. Sir John Moore, made famous by Wolfe's poem on his burial in 1809, was then but eighteen, a lieutenant, as was Sir James Craig, who became the Governor General of Canada. , SOS
Page 304
10 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT immediate defence, desists for the present from his purpose of proceeding in a regular way with the fort; and prepares to fortify in a manner more expeditious and better suited to the present emergency; in doing which he shows the utmost vigi- lance and activity, giving every where the necessary directions, visiting incessantly by night and day the different parts of the works, and thus by his example animating his men to proceed, regardless of fatigue, with vigour and alacrity in their opera- tions. The Inspector of the inhabitants begs leave of the General to call in the people to assist in carrying on the works; which being granted, about a hundred inhabitants came in (with their Captain * at their head) as volunteers; and hav- ing worked three days gratis, cleared the land of wood in the front of the fort, to the satisfaction of the General, who re- turned them his thanks. July 20. All hands busy at work, preparing to receive the enemy. At noon Capt. Mowat, having made every preparation in his power to secure the harbour, &c., sent 180 men on shore from the ships of war, to work on the fort. July 21. Intelligence is received that a fleet of near 40 sail of ves- sel had sailed from Boston eastward. All hands at work day and night. July 22. Nothing remarkable. All hands at work day and night. This evening a spy brought an account that 40 sail of vessel put into Townsend Harbour yesterday. July 23. Every person busily employed. The Inspector calls a great number of inhabitants to work, who are employed in felling trees, raising an abatis round the fort, building plat- forms for the guns, &c. Saw three sail in the offing. Several canoes from the islands below come to advise the General of *John Perkins. 304
Page 305
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 17 * a large number of vessels being becalmed off St. George's Is- land,* standing with their heads to the eastward. All doubt of an attack from the Enemy is now vanished. July 24. At 4 P. M. discovered a large fleet standing up the bay, which from various circumstances we believed to be the arma- ment that, according to intelligence received, had been fitted out at Boston to besiege this place. On this account Capt. Mowat thought proper to detain the North and Nautilus sloops, which had been ordered for other service. At five, by signal from the Albany, the seamen who for some days past had been at work raising the S. E. bastion of the fort, repaired on board their respective ships (which were immediately cleared for action) and, as had been usual, were every evening ex- ercised at their quarters. The Albany, North and Nautilus had dropped down the harbour and moored in a well-formed and close line of battle across the entrance, immediately within the rocks on Bagwaduce point and the point of Nautilus or Cross Island; giving a berth, out of the line of fire, to three transports stationed and prepared to slip and run foul of the Enemy's ships, should they attempt to enter the harbour. The troops were encamped about half a mile from the works; the well bastion of which was not yet begun, nor the Seamen's** quite finished; but on the appearance of the Enemy the works * The St. George Islands are off the mouth of St. Georges River and are a part of the town of St. George, Maine. They were originally a part of the Plantation of St George, then Cushing, and in 1903 the town of St. George was incorporated. Penobscot Harbor, referred to by Rosier, in 1605, is at Allen's Island and here was the first attempt by Europeans to cultivate the soil of Maine. Captain George Weymouth erected a cross on Allen's Island in 1605, and the Maine Historical Society erected a granite one in 1905 to commemorate the event. The town of St. George is thirteen miles south of Rockland. ** So called as being the work of the seamen only under the direction of Lieut. William Brooke, of his Majesty's ship North. 305
Page 306
18 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT were put in a more defensible state, some cannon were mounted, and the little army was in garrison early the next morning. Guard-boats, during the night, watched the mo- tions of the Enemy, who were discovered to have come to an anchor about three or four leagues off, in the narrows of Penobscot. July 25. At 10 A. M. a brig appeared at some distance from the harbour's mouth, and after reconnoitering the situation of the men of war, stood back into the fleet. At noon the Enemy's fleet, consisting of 37 sail of ships, brigs and transports, ar- rived in the bay of the harbour; the transports proceeded about half a mile up Penobscot river, and came to an anchor, while the armed ships and brigs stood off and on and a boat from each ship repaired on board their flagship, which had thrown thrown out a signal for that purpose. At 3 P. M., nine ships, forming into three divisions, stood towards the King's ships and, as they advanced in the line, hove-to, and engaged. A very brisk cannonade continued four glasses*, when the Enemy bore up, and came to an anchor in the bay without. The King's ships suffered only in their rigging. The fire of the Enemy was random and irregular, and their manoevres, as to backing and filling, bespoke confusion, particularly in the first division, which scarcely got from the line of fire when the second began to en- gage. The second and third divisions appeared to have but one object in view, that of cutting the springs of the men of war, to swing them from the bearings of their broadsides, and thereby to afford their fleet an entrance into the harbour. Dur- ing the cannonade with the shipping the Enemy made an at- tempt to land their troops on Bagwaduce, but were repulsed with some loss. On the retreat of the Enemy's troops and *A " glass " is a marine measure of time, equal to half an hour. V 306
Page 307
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 19 ships the garrison manned their works, and gave three cheers to the men-of-war, which were returned; and soon after the general and field-officers went down to the beach and also gave three cheers, which were returned by the ships. Guard-boats and ships' companies during the night lay at their quarters. July 26. At 10 A. M. the Enemy's ships got under weigh, and forming their divisions as yesterday, stood in and engaged the King's ships four glasses and a half. The damages sus- tained this day, also, were chiefly in the rigging at the extreme ends of the ships; and the fire of the Enemy appears again to be directed to the moorings; which attempt not proving suc- cessful, they bore up and anchored without. The Enemy again attempted to land their troops, but were driven back with some little loss. At 6 P. M. the Enemy, having stationed two brigs of 14 guns and one sloop of 12, on the east side of Nautilus Island, landed 200 men, and dislodging a party of 20 marines, took possession of four 4-pounders (two not mounted) and a small quantity of ammunition. At 9 P. M. it being found that the Enemy were very busy at work, and that they had landed some heavy artillery which they were getting up to the height of the island, and against which the men-of- war could not act in their present station, it was judged expe- dient to move them farther up the river. This was accord- ingly done, and the line formed as before: the transports moved up at the same time and anchored within the men-of- war. Guard-boats and the ships' companies, as usual, lying at their quarters. July 27. Pretty quiet all this day. A few shot from some ships of the Enemy were aimed at the small battery on Majabig- waduce point, which were returned with a degree of success, one ship having been driven from her station. Observed the 307
Page 308
20 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT Enemy very busy in erecting their battery on Nautilus Island. The garrison being much in want of cannon, some guns from the transports and from the off-side of the men-of-war, were landed, and being dragged by the seamen up to the fort, were disposed of for its use. At 3 P. M. a boat passing from the Enemy's ships to Nautilus island was sunk by a random shot from the fort. At 11 P. M. the guard-boats from the King's ships fell in and exchanged a few shots with the Enemy's. July 28. At 3 A. M. under their ships' fire, the Enemy made good their landing on Majabigwaduce, and from their great su- periority of numbers obliged the King's troops to retreat to the garrison. The Enemy's right pressed hard and in force upon the left of the King's troops, and attempted to cut off a party of men at the small battery; but the judgment and ex- perience of a brave officer (Lieut. Caffrac, of the 82nd) coun- teracted their designs, and a retreat was effected with all the order and regularity necessary on such occasions. An attempt was made to demolish the guns, but the Enemy pushed their force to this ground so rapidly as not to suffer it. The possession of this battery afforded their ships a nearer station, on which they immediately seized. At 6 A. M. the Enemy opened their battery of 18 and 12 pounders from Nautilus is- land, and kept up the whole day a brisk and well-directed fire against the men-of-war. The King's ships cannonaded the battery for two glasses, and killed some men at it; but their light metal (six pounders) was found to be of little service, in comparison to the damages they sustained from such heavy metal brought against them. At 10 A. M., the Warren, of 32 guns, the Commodore's ship, and which had not as yet been in action, got under weigh and with three more ships shewed an appearance of entering the harbour, but hauled by the wind at a long distance. A brisk fire was kept up for half an hour, when the Enemy bore up and came to an anchor again with- S08
Page 309
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 21 out. The Warren suffered considerably: her mainmast shot through in two places, the gammoning of her bowsprit cut to pieces, and her forestay shot away. Their confusion appeared to be great, and very nearly occasioned her getting on shore, so that they were obliged to let go an anchor and drop into the inlet between Majabigwaduce head and the point; where the ship lay this and the next day repairing her damages. The battery on the island still keeping up a heavy fire, and the ships' crews being exposed without the least benefit to the service, Capt. Mowat thought proper to move further up the harbour; which was done in the night and the line formed again; he being firmly resolved to dispute the harbour to the last extremity, as on that entirely depended the safety of the garrison, whose communication with the men-of-war was of the utmost importance. The dispositions on shore and on the water co-operating, and perfectly supporting each other, foiled the Enemy in their purposes; their troops were yet confined to a spot they could not move from, and while the harbour was secure their intentions of making approaches and investing the fort on all sides could by no means be put in execution. The present station of the men-of-war be- ing such as rendered it impossible for the Enemy's ships to act but at particular periods, the marines (whose service in their peculiar line of duty was not immediately required on board) were ordered on shore to garrison duty, holding them- selves in readiness to embark at a moment's notice, which with ease they could have effected in ten or fifteen minutes. Guard- boats as usual during the night. July 29. At 6 Al M. the Enemy's ships weighed, and altering their positions, came to an anchor again. The State of the fortress requiring more cannon, some remaining off-side guns were landed from the men-of-war and dragged by the seamen up to the fortress for its use and that of the batteries; and 809
Page 310
22 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT though the task to be performed, up a steep hill, over rocks and innumerable stumps of fallen trees, was laborious, yet their chearfulness and zeal for the service surmounted every difficulty. P. M. the Enemy opened their batteries on the heights of Majabigwaduce, and kept up a warm and incess- ant fire against the fortress. The commanding ground of the Enemy's works and the short distance from the fortress, gave them some advantages with their grape as well as round shot which considerably damaged the storehouse in the garri- son. Six pieces of cannon at the half-moon battery near Banks' house, and which belonged to the fortress, being now found necessary for its particular defence, were moved up to it and replaced with some ship's guns, under the direction of the gunner of the Albany, with a party of seamen Capt. Mowat having obtained intelligence that the Enemy, in de- spair of reducing the King's ships by the means of their own, or of getting possession of the harbour, had come to the reso- lution of joining their whole force in troops, marines and sea- men, to storm the fortress the next morning at day-break, he judged it expedient to re-inforce the garrison with what sea- men could be conveniently spared; and for this purpose, at the close of the evening, 140 men under the command of Lieut. Brooke, were sent into garrison: part of them were im- mediately detached to re-inforce the troops on the out-line piquets, others manned the facing of their own bastion, while the remainder were busily employed in raising the cavaliers in the fort. In all these operations a brotherly affection ap- peared to unite the forces both by sea and land, and to direct their views all to one point, much to their credit and to the honour and benefit of the service. During the night the Enemy threw a number of shells into the fortress. At 10 810
Page 311
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 23 P. M. a few shot between the Enemy's guard-boats and those from the King's ships. July 30. The Enemy's ships preserve their disposition of yester- day. A brisk cannonade the whole day between the fortress and the Enemy's batteries on the height, and a number of shells thrown on both sides. The storehouse being appre- hended to be in danger, some seamen were ordered to move the provisions out of the fortress into the ditch in its rear; as likewise a quantity at another storehouse. Guard-boats as usual. July 31. At 2 A. M. the seamen and marines of the Enemy's fleet landed to the westward of the half-moon battery, and under cover of the night attacked the piquet, and by heavy pla- toon firings obliged them to retreat; but an alert re-inforce- ment of 50 men who were detached from the garrison, under the command of Lieut. Graham* of the 82nd regiment, to the support of the piquet, drove the Enemy back with some loss in killed, wounded and taken, amounting on the whole, ac- cording to the best information, to about 100; the loss on the part of the King's forces, amounting to 13 killed, wounded and missing, fell chiefly on the seamen and marines, who com- posed the piquet this night. Lieut. Graham unfortunately received a dangerous wound in this action. August 1. A slack fire on all sides. At 4 P. M. the Enemy's fleet getting under weigh, and the wind and tide serving them to enter the harbour, the embodied seamen were immediately called on board their respective ships; but it afterward ap- peared that the Enemy weighed only to form a closer line. Guard-boats as usual. 'August 2. At 10 A. M. three of the Enemy's ships weighed and *John Graham, 82d Regiment. 311
Page 312
24 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT came to an anchor nearer the harbour's mouth. Some can- nonading between the fortress and the Enemy's batteries on the height. The outer magazine of the fortress being too much exposed, as lying in front and between the two fires, the ma- rines were charged with the duty of bringing it to the magazine in the fortress; which was performed without any loss. P. M. a flag of truce from the Enemy, to treat for the exchange of a lieutenant of their fleet taken (wounded) at the half- moon battery on the 31st ult., but he had died of his wounds this morning. This day the Enemy posted some marksmen behind trees within musquet-shot of the fortress, and killed and wounded some centinels. August 8. A slack fire the whole day. Perceived the Enemy busy in erecting a battery to the northward on the main above the King's ships. By a deserter from the Enemy's fleet we learn the force landed below the half-moon battery was 1000 seamen and marines, joined on their landing by 200 troops; that their intentions were to storm the fortress in the rear while the army from the heights made their attack in front; that it was not intended to storm the half-moon battery, but that they had mistaken their road in endeavoring to get in the rear of the fortress, when they received the first fire of the piquet, which led them to suppose their design had been dis- covered, and that they were ambushed. The army also, be- lieving this to be the case, retreated to their ground. At 2 P. M. some seamen were sent to the fortress to assist in work- ing the cannon, and another party for the defence of the Sea- men's bastion, where a number of swivels from the men-of- war were planted, loaded with grape-shot, as a precaution against any attempt of the Enemy to storm the works. By request of the General a number of pikes were also brought from the King's ships to the fortress, and put in the hands S12
Page 313
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 25 of the seamen, to prevent the Enemy from BOARDING their bastion. Guard-boats as usual. August 4. The Enemy's ships retain their former situation. A smart cannonading between the fortress and the batteries on the heights, and a great number of shells thrown on both sides. Some ships' buckets for the use of the garrison brought on shore, in case the fascines at the well bastion, or store houses might be fired by the Enemy's shells. At 9 A. M. the Enemy opened their new battery near Wescoat's house, on the main, to the northward of the shipping. A brisk fire was kept up the whole day, and the men-of-war suffered much in their hulls and rigging; being too far from the battery for the light metal of the ships to produce any effect, their companies were ordered below. P. M. some skirmishing between the piquets, and trifling losses on both sides, on the Enemy's some Indians were killed. During the day several accidents happened by cannon shot in the fort; among others the boatswain of the Nautilus was wounded by grape, and a seaman belonging to the North killed by an 18-pounder, at the guns they were stationed at in the fortress. August 5. Cannonading the greatest part of the day between the fortress and the Enemy's batteries on the height, and from the north battery against the men-of-war, damaging their hulls and rigging. A. M. the remaining off-side guns from his Majesty's sloop North brought on shore, and mounted in the cavalier in the fortress. P. M. the garrison, being much in want of wads and match, was supplied from the men-of-war, as also with some six-pound shot, in which it is deficient. The north battery on the main having the command of the oppo- site shore on the peninsula of Majabigwaduce, where the Enemy, under its protection, might make lodgements in their 313
Page 314
26 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT approaches toward the heights opposite the men-of-war and within shot of the fortress, and might thereby destroy the communication between them and the garrison, Capt. Mowat judged it necessary to erect a work in order to preserve this communication: a square redoubt was therefore marked out, to be manned with 50 seamen and to mount eight ships' guns en barbette. Guard-boats as usual during the night. August 6. Slack fire between the fortress and batteries on the heights, and a few shot from the north battery against the men-of-war, cutting their rigging and dismounting a six- pounder on board the North. At 4 A. M. 70 seamen from the different ships, under the direction of Lieut. Brooke, of the North, sent on shore to raise the Seamen's redoubt on the height. P. M. a quantity of musquet-cartridges (of which the garrison was in want) brought on shore from the men-of- war. Guard-boats as usual. At 11 a few shot exchanged between the guard-boats. August 7. The Enemy's ships preserve their positions. At 9 A. M. three of their brigs got under weigh and stood down the bay, supposed on the look-out. Some skirmishing between the piquets, with loss to the Enemy; Lieut. McNeil,* of the 82d, and one private, wounded. Slack fire between the bat- teries and the fortress, and the north battery perfectly silent. At 4 P. M. discovered a boat crossing the S. E. bay to Hainey's plantation, where the Enemy kept a piquet. Lieut. Congalton,t of the Nautilus chaced with the boats from the men-of-war, and took her; but her crew, with those of a whale- boat and a gondola for transportating cannon, got safe on shore and joined the piquet. Capt. Farnham } of the Nau- *Roderick McNeil. f Andrew Congalton. t Thomas Farnham, Navy List, 1779- 314
Page 315
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 27 tilus, with Lieut. Brooke and 50 seamen, joined by a party of soldiers from the garrison, landed and scoured the woods; the Enemy fled immediately, and so effectually concealed themselves as not to be discovered; some had left their arms ammunition and blankets, which were taken and brought on board. Guard-boats as usual during the night. By a deserter from the Enemy we learn that General Lovell had sent out small parties from his army, round the country, and brought in a great number of loyal inhabitants, who were sent on board their fleet and thrust down the holds heavily laden with irons, both on the hands and feet; their milch cows and other stock killed for the Enemy's use; all their moveables destroyed or plundered, and their wives and children left destitute of every support of life. August 8. A constant cannonade the whole day between the fortress and the Enemy's batteries on the height, and from the north battery against the men-of-war, but returned only with a musquet. At 10 A. M. the Enemy brought a field-piece to play from the main on the seamen working at the redoubt; but the facing towards the Enemy being the first raised, for the purpose of covering the party, it was impossible to dislodge them; and a covering party daily attending from the garrison prevented a nearer approach on any other ground. This evening the redoubt was finished, and to the credit of the seamen, met with the approbation of the General and Engi- neers. Guard-boats as usual. August 9. Cannonading as usual. At 9 A. M. a new battery, on the left of the Enemy's lines, was opened against the for- trees, and its chief fire, as well as the shells, directed against the N. W. bastion, raised with fascines only. P. M. dis- covered the Enemy had moved their piquet from Hainey's 815
Page 316
28 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT plantation, and given up their design of carrying on a work for two 18-pounders against the men-of-war. Guard-boats as usual during the night. August 10. The Enemy's ships in the former position. A slack fire on all sides, and nothing material. August. 11. A smart cannonading from all the batteries, and some shot from the north battery well directed at the men-of war. August 12. Slack fire on all sides, and no material operations the whole day; but at 9 P. M. a large body of seamen and marines from the Enemy's fleet landed below Banks' * house to the westward, and setting fire to some barns, houses, and a quantity of lumber-boards, &c., on the beach, retreated to their ships again. August 13. At day break some skirmishing between the piquets, but no material loss on either side. At 1 P. M. came in some deserters from the Enemy's ships, who say the boat chaced on shore at Hainey's plantation had in her their Commodore and some officers of their fleet, who, having escaped, returned to their ships after lying two days and a night in the woods; that one of the officers (Capt. Ross, of the Monmouth) had broke his leg in the woods; and that they were much dis- concerted at the loss of the gondola, which was intended to carry over some 18-pounders to the battery on the plantation. Capt. Mowat also (by his usual diligence) obtained in- formation that a degree of mutiny prevailed in the Enemy's fleet against their Commodore who, notwithstanding the re- *The home of Aaron Banks, a soldier of the French and Indian wars, who came from York, Maine, in 1765. He married Mary Perkins of York, who was a sister of John and Daniel Perkins of Bagaduce. He died August 9, 1828, at Penobscot, where he moved after peace was declared. He has no descendants of his name. Banks and his family were detained for upwards of three weeks as prisoners on board the British sloop North. v 816
Page 317
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 29 solves of several councils of war and urgent solicitations of the General to make another attempt on the King's ships, had hitherto declined it through fear of losing some ships; but that, in consequence of another council held this morning on the Warren, it was determined to force the harbour next tide and take or destroy the men-of-war; that five ships were des- tined for this service, one of which was the Warren; but that the Putnam, of 20 guns, was to lead, and that each ship was doubly manned with picked men. This information was con- firmed at noon by five of their fleet getting under weigh and coming to an anchor in a line, the Putnam being the headmost ship. The marines were now called on board their respective ships, the barricades strengthened, guns double-shotted and every disposition made for the most vigorous defence. The St. Helena transport had been brought into the line and fitted out with what guns could be procured, and the crews of the transports (now scuttled and laid on shore to prevent them from falling into the Enemy's hands), turned on board to fight her; and the General had also advanced five pieces of cannon, under cover of an epaulement, to salute them as they came in. But at 5 P. M. the appearance of some strange sails in the off- ing disconcerted the Enemy's plan, and the five ships, getting under weigh again, stood off and on the whole night. Guard- boats watching the motions of the Enemy's fleet, and the ships' companies standing at their quarters until daylight. This night had been fixed upon to storm the north battery with 60 seamen under the command of Lieut. Brooke, supported by Lieut. Caffrac of the 82d, with 50 soldiers; but the Enemy's operations, and the appearance of the strange fleet, prevented the execution of it. August 14. At day-break this morning it was discovered that the Enemy had during the night moved off their cannon, and quitting the heights of Majabigwaduce, silently embarked in 817
Page 318
80 A JOURNAL OF THE SEEGE OF PENOBSCOT small vessels. At 4 A. M. after firing a shot or two, they also evacuated Nautilus island; and leaving their cannon spiked and dismounted, got on board a brig lying to receive them, and made sail with the transports up Penobscot river. The whole fleet now got under weigh, and upon one of the brigs heaving in sight off the harbour's mouth, with various signals aboard, they bore up with all sail after the transports. There now remaining no doubt but the strange fleet was the relief expected, the off-side guns of the Albany, North and Nauti- lus were got down from the fortress, and being taken on board, the three ships slipped their stern moorings, hove up their bower anchors, and working out of the harbour joined in about the centre of the King's fleet, in pursuit of the flying enemy, who were now crowding with every sail they could set. The Hunter and Hampden, two of the Enemy's ships, of 20 guns each, attempted to escape through the passage of Long Is- land,* but were cut off and taken; the former ran in shore all standing, and was instantly deserted by her crew, who got safe on shore; and the Raisonable, Sir George Collier, being the sternmost ship in the fleet, took possession and got her off, and came to an anchor near her. The rest of his Majesty's ships continued in chace of the Enemy until it grew so dark as to render the narrow navigation exceedingly dangerous; and they were obliged to anchor for the night, while the Enemy, having good pilots, ran some miles further up the river. The Defiance brig, of 14 guns, ran into an inlet where she could not be pursued, and was set on fire by her crew. During the night the Enemy set fire to several ships and brigs, which blew up with vast explosions. In short, the harmony and good understanding that sub- * Long Island, now the town of Islesborough, is about twelve miles long, contains about six thousand acres and is in Penobscot Bay, four miles from Castine. 318
Page 319
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 31 sisted amongst the Forces by sea and by land—enabled them to effect almost prodigies; for so ardently did they vie with each other in the general service that it may be truly said not a single Officer, Sailor or Soldier was once seen to shrink from his duty, difficult and hazardous as it was. The flying scout, of 50 men commanded by Lieut. Caffrac of the 82d, in parti- cular distinguished themselves to admiration, marching fre- quently almost round the peninsula, both by day and by night, and with drum and fife playing the tune called Yankee, which greatly dispirited the Enemy, and prevented their small par- ties from galling our men at the works. In one instance they even drove back to their incampment 300 of the Enemy who had been sent to storm an outwork. The manoeuvres of the three Sloops of War, under the direction of Capt. Mowat, were moreover such as enabled the King's forces to hold out a close siege of~21 days, against a fleet and army of more than six times their number and strength; insomuch that on the first appearance of the re-in- forcement from New York in the offing, the Enemy debarked their troops and sailed with their whole fleet up Penobscot river, where they burnt their shipping and from thence marched to their respective homes; and the loyal inhabitants, who were taken in the time of the siege and cruelly treated on board their ships, had their irons taken off and were set at liberty.* Thus did this little Garrison, f with three Sloops of War, *To give them a cool airing, as the enemy called it, once a day the irons were knocked off their feet and they were put into a boat alongside the ship, where they remained about an hour, and had the filth of the ship poured upon their heads. fWhen the account of an army coming to besiege this place was received, the curtains in some parts of the intended fort were not more than four feet in height; two bastions were but just begun to be built, and the other two were only marked out. 319
Page 320
32 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT by the unwearied exertions of Soldiers and Seamen whose bravery cannot be too much extolled, under the judicious con- duct of Officers whose zeal is hardly to be paralleled, succeed in an enterprise of great importance, against difficulties ap- parently insurmountable, under circumstances exceedingly critical, and in a manner strongly expressive of their faithful and spirited attachment to the interests of their King and Country. A LIST of the Enemy's Ships, etc., taken and destroyed in Penobscot River Ships' Names Commanders Guns No. of Metal Pounders Men Saltonstall 32 22 20 20 20 20 20 20 18 18 16 250 200 130 130 120 100 130 180 140 100 120 18 and 12 9 and 6 9 9 6 6 Burnt Burnt Sally Holmes Putnam Waters Burnt Hector .... Cairns Burnt Revenge Monmouth ... Hallet Burnt Burnt Ross Hampden ... Salter 9 and 6 6 Taken Brown Taken Vengeance .. Black Prince Sky Rocket. . West 9 and 6 6 6 Burnt Burnt Burnt BRIGS Ships' Name Hazard Active Tyrannicide Defiance . . . Diligence . - Pallas Sloop Providence Commanders Williams . Cathcart . No. ofl Guns 18 16 14 14 14 14 12 No. of Men 100 100 90 90 90 80 50 Metal Pounders Brown Johnstone Hacker With Nine Sail of Transport Vessels And Ten Sail of Transport and Ordnance ditto Total 0 6 6 e 4 4 C Burnt Burnt Burnt Burnt Burnt Burnt Burnt .Taken .Burnt 37 320
Page 321
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 33 Killed, wounded and missing, of His Majesty's Sea and Land Forces 70 Killed, wounded and taken, on the Enemy's Side 474 Of the captains of these vessels the Massachusetts! records show particulars. The Sally is described as the Charming Sally, a privateer owned by William Erskine of Boston. Captain Alexander Holmes was afterwards captain of the privateer Batchelor. William Burke commanded the Skyrocket, which was a privateer owned by Ebenezer Parsons, of Boston. James Johnston was the captain of the Pallas* privateer, owned by William Ers- kine and others, of Boston. Nathan Brown, of Salem, commanded the Hunter, a privateer owned by Barthol- omew Putnam. Later he had the privateer-ship Jack. John Cathcart, captain of the Tyrannicide, afterward had command of the State ship Tartar and another of the same name, a Boston privateer. John. Carnes (not Cairns) had the ship Hector, a Boston privateer owned by Jon- athan Peale, and afterward of the Montgomery and Porus, both privateers. Allen (or John Allen) Hallet, of the Active, a State vessel, was afterward in command of the Tartar and the Franklin and Minerva, privateers. > Captain Hoysteed Hacker commanded the Providence and afterward the priva- teer ship Bucanier. Nathancl West was captain of the Black Prince, privateer owned by George Williams, of Salem. He afterwards had the Three Sitters, owned by Nathaniel Silsbee and Elias Hasket Derby of Salem, and of the Marquis. Daniel Waters was captain of the General Putnam, which was owned by Nathan- iel Shaw. He had previously commanded the Lee and afterwards had the Friendship. PROCLAMATION By Brigadier-General FRANCIS MCLEAN and ANDREW BARKLEY, Esq., Com- manding detachments of his Majesty's Land and Naval Forces in the River Penobscot. WHEREAS it is well known that there are in the several Colonies in North America, now in open rebellion, many persons who still retain a sense of their duty, and who are only deterred 381
Page 322
84 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT from an open profession of it by the fear of becoming objects of the cruel treatment which they have seen exercised on others, by persons who having plunged their country into the horrors and distresses it now labours under, industriously seize every opportunity of gratifying their avaritious and wicked disposi- tions by the wanton oppression of individuals: And whereas it hath been represented that the greater part of the inhabitants on the river Penobscot, and the several islands therein, are well affected to his Majesty's person and the an- cient constitution under which they formerly flourished, and from the restoration of which they can alone expect relief from the distressed situation they are mow in: Their Excellencies the Commanders in Chief of his Majesty's naval and land forces in North-America, taking the good dis- positions of the inhabitants above mentioned (as represented to them) into their consideration, and desirous of encouraging and protecting the persons professing them, and securing them from any molestation on that account, have ordered here the forces under our respective commands for that purpose: We therefore, in obedience to their directions, hereby invite and urgently request the inhabitants on the river Penobscot and the islands therein in general, to be the first to return to that state of good order and government to which the whole must in the end submit, and openly to profess that loyalty and alle- giance from which they have been led to swerve by arguments and apprehensions, of the falsehood of which they must have been long ago sensible, as well as of the views of those who first promoted them. We also call on all those whose principles have never been shaken, to embrace the present opportunity of manifesting them without dread or apprehensions, as we hereby assure them of every protection in the power of the forces under our respective commands to bestow. And, to \ 322
Page 323
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 35 quiet the apprehensions of any persons who might be deterred from embracing this opportunity by the dread of being punished for any former acts of rebellion which they may have been led to commit, we hereby declare that we will extend our pro- tection, and give every encouragement, to all persons of what- ever denomination who shall, within eight days from the date hereof, take the oaths of allegiance and fidelity to his Majesty, before such persons as we shall appoint, either at the head- quarters of his Majesty's troops at Majabigwaduce Neck, or at Fort Pownal*; which oaths of allegiance and fidelity we re- quire all persons whatever to come and take within the required time, and not, by neglecting to give such testimony of their loyalty, give room to look upon them as desirous of continuing in an obstinate and unavailing rebellion, and subject themselves to the treatment such conduct will deserve. To all persons who by returning to their allegiance shall merit it, we not only promise protection and encouragement, with the relief that shall be in our power to alleviate their present dis- tresses, but we also declare that we will employ the forces under our command to punish all persons whatever who shall attempt in any manner to molest them, either in person or property, on account of their loyalty or conduct toward us; and if forced by their behaviour to punish any men or set of men, on the above-mentioned account, we declare that we wall do it in such an exemplary manner as we hope will deter others from oblig- ing us to have recourse to such severe means in future. And whereas the inhabitants to whom this proclamation is ad- dressed, as well as those in general settled in that part of the country called the Province of Maine, have settled themselves on lands, and cultivated them, without any grant or title by which their possession can be secured to them or their posterity; we therefore declare that we have full power to promise, and * See p. 45. 323
Page 324
86 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT we do hereby promise, that no person whatever who shall take the oaths of allegiance as above required, and give such other testimony of their attachment to the constitution as we, or other officers commanding his Majesty's forces may require, shall be disturbed in their possessions; but that whenever civil government takes place, they shall receive gratuitous grants from his Majesty (who alone has the power of giving them) of all lands they may have actually cultivated and improved. And whereas the leaders of the present rebellion, in pursuit of the views which first instigated them to foment it, and prob- ably to blind the people with regard to the cause of the severe dis- tress under which they now labour, have industriously propa- gated a notion that the officers of his Majesty's sea and land forces willingly add to their sufferings: We, therefore, to remove such prejudices and as far as in us lies to alleviate the misery of the inhabitants of the villages and islands along the coast of New England, hereby declare that such of them as behave themselves in a peaceable, orderly manner, shall have full liberty to fish in their ordinary coast fishing craft without any molestation on our part; on the contrary, they shall be protected in it by all vessels and parties under our command. Given on board his Majesty's ship Blonde, in Majabigwaduce river, the 15th of June, 1779. Francis McLean, Andrew Barkley. PROCLAMATION By Solomon Lovell, Esq., Brigadier-General and Commander in Chief of the Forces of the State of Massachusetts Bay, and employed on an Expedition against the Army of the King of Great Britain at Penobscot. Whereas it hath been represented to Government that an arma- ment of some sea and land forces belonging to the King of 824
Page 325
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 37 Great Britain, under the encouragement of divers of inhabi- tants of these parts, inimicably disposed to the United States of America, have made a descent on Penobscot, and the parts adjacent; and after propagating various false reports of a gen- eral insurrection of the Eastern and Northern Indians in their favour, a Proclamation has been issued on the 15th of June last, signed Francis McLean and Andrew Barclay, said to be in behalf and by authority of said King, promising grants of lands which he never owned, and of which he has now for- feited the jurisdiction by an avowed breach of that compact between him and his subjects, whereon said jurisdiction was founded, and terrifying by threatenings which his power in this land is unable to execute, unless his servants have recourse to their wonted methods of midnight slaughter and savage de- vastation, all designs to induce the free inhabitants of these parts of the State to submit to their power, and to take an oath of allegiance to their King, whereby they must greatly profane the name of God and solemnly entangle themselves in an obligation to give up their cattle, provisions and labour to the will of every officer pretending the authority of said King, and finally to take arms against their brethren when- ever called upon; and it appears some persons have been in- duced out of fear and by the force of compulsion, to take said oath, who may so far be imposed on as to think themselves bound to act in conformity thereto: I have thought proper to issue this Proclamation, hereby declar- ing that the allegiance due to the ancient constitution obliges to resist to the last extremity the present system of tyranny in the British Government, which has now overset it; that by this mode of government the people have been reduced to a state of nature, and it is utterly unlawful to require any obedience to their forfeited authority; and all acts recognizing such authority are sinful in their nature; no oaths promising it 325
Page 326
38 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT can be lawful; since if any act be sin in itself, no oath can make it a duty; the very taking of such an oath is a crime, of which every act adhering to it is a repetition with dread- ful aggravations. In all cases where oaths are imposed, and persons compelled to submit to them by threats of immediate destruction which they cannot otherwise avoid, it is manifest that, however obligatory they may be to the conscience of the compeller, whose in- terest and meaning is thereby so solemnly witnessed, it can have no force on the compelled, whose interest was known, by the compulsion itself, to be the very reverse of the words in which it is expressed. At the same time, I do assure the inhabitants of Penobscot and the country adjacent, that if they are found to be so lost to all the virtues of good citizens as to comply with advice of said pretended Proclamation (p. 33) by becoming the first to desert the cause of freedom of virtue and of God, which the whole force of Britain and all its auxiliaries now find them- selves unable to overthrow, they must expect also to be the first to experience the just resentment of this injured and betrayed Country, in the condign punishment which their treason de- serves. From this punishment their invaders will be very un- like to protect them, as it is now known they are not able to protect themselves in any part of America. And as the pro- tection on which those proclaiming Gentlemen say they have power only to promise, can be afforded by nothing but the forces which they command, and of these forces by the bless- ing of God, I doubt not in a very short time to be put in pos- session; so there is more reason to expect it from the Indian members of the community and treated accordingly, anything nations around, as good part of them are now in my encamp- ment, and several hundreds more on their way speedily to 326
Page 327
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 39 join me; and I have the best evidences from all the rest, that they steadfastly refused to accept of any presents, sign the papers, or do any the barbarous acts assigned them by our Enemies; and on the contrary hold themselves in readiness, on the shortest notice, to turn out for the defence of any place which these men may attack. Therefore, as the authority committed to me necessitates my exe- cuting my best endeavours to rid this much-abused country, not only of its foreign but also from its domestic enemies, I do, therefore, declare that when, by the blessing of Heaven on the American arms, we shall have brought the forces that have invaded us to the state they deserve, it shall be my care that the laws of this state be duly executed upon such inhabi- tants thereof as have traitoriously abetted or encouraged them in their lawless attempts. And, that proper discrimination may be made between them and the faithful and liege subjects of the United States, I further declare that all persons within the Eastern country, that have taken the oath prescribed by the Enemy, and shall not within forty-eight hours after receiving notice of this proclamation repair to my camp at Majabigwaduce, with such arms and accoutrements as they now possess, shall be considered as traitors who have voluntarily combined with the Common En- emy in the common ruin; but all such as shall appear at head- quarters within said term, and give proper testimony of their determination to continue cordially in allegiance to the United States of America, shall be recognized as good and faithful members of the community and treated accordingly, anything obnoxious in their taking the oath notwithstanding. Given at the Head-Quarters on the Heights of Majabigwaduce, this 29th day of July, Anno 327
Page 328
40 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT Domini, 1779, and in the Fourth Year of the Independence of America. (Signed) S. Lovell, Brig. Gen. By Command of the General, John Marston, Secretary. Copy of General Lovell's Letter to Commodore Saltonstall; taken with other Papers on board the Transport. Head Quarters, Majabigrvaduce Heights, Aug. 11, 1779- SIR, IN this alarming posture of affairs, I am once more obliged to request the most speedy service in your department; and that a moment be no .longer delayed to put in execution what I have been given to understand was the determination of your last council. The destruction of the Enemy's ships must be effected at any rate, although it might cost us half our own; but I cannot possibly conceive that danger, or that the attempt will miscarry. I mean not to determine on your mode of attack; but it appears to me so very practicable that any further delay must be infamous; and I have it this moment by a deserter from one of their ships, that the moment you enter the harbour they will destroy them; which will effectually answer our purpose. The idea of more batteries against them was sufficiently rep- robated; and, would the situation of ground admit of such pro- ceeding, it would now take up dangerous time; and we have al- ready experienced their obstinacy in that respect. You cannot but be sensible of my ardent desire to co-operate with you; and of this the guard at Westcot's is a sufficient proof, and which I think a hazardous distance from my encampment. My situation is confined; and while the Enemy's ships are safe, the operations of the Army cannot possibly be extended an inch beyond 328
Page 329
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 41 the present limits; the alternative now remains, to destroy the ships, or raise the siege. The information of the British ships at the Hook* (probably sailed before this) is not to be despised; not a moment is to be lost; we must determine instantly, or it may be productive of disgrace, loss of ships and men; as to the troops, their retreat is secure, though I would die to save the necessity of it. I feel for the honour of America, in an expedition which a nobler exertion had long before this crowned with success; and I have now only to repeat the absolute necessity of undertaking the destruction of the ships, or quitting the place; and with these opinions I shall impatiently wait your answer. I am, Sir, Yours, etc., S. Lovell, Brig. Gen. To Commodore Saltonstall. POSTSCRIPT INASMUCH as the Country of Penobscot has till lately been but little known or considered by Britons, the Editor has thought proper to give the public the following short Account of it; having of late years travelled eight times through the same, and made himself acquainted with the most respectable persons in each town, and with the minutest circumstances which respect that District. Penobscot, sometimes called the Territory of Sagadahock, lies in the eastern part of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, having * Sandy Hook, New York Harbor. [Ed.] —The "Postscript" was written by Dr. Calef. 829
Page 330
42 A JOUBNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT the Province of Nova Scotia (viz. Passamaquodie) for its Eastern, the Province of Main (viz. Kennebeck River) its Western, Canada its Northern, and the Ocean its Southern boundary; and is nearly as large as the Kingdom of Ireland. The French were formerly in possession of part of this Country, viz. from Penobscot River east- ward: they had a Fort on the Peninsula of Majabigwaduce, com- manded by Monsieur Castine, and a great number of French in- habitants settled up Penobscot, and on other rivers, and along the seacoast to Nova Scotia. On the reduction of Louisburg, in the year 1745 Monsieur Castine demolished the Fort; and all the inhabitants of this district broke up, and removed to Canada. At the end of the last war, viz. in 1763, the General Assembly of Massachusetts Bay granted thirteen Townships, each of six miles square, lying on the east side of Penobscot River, to thirteen com- panies of Proprietors, who proceeded to lay out the said Townships, and returned plans thereof to the General Assembly, which were approved and accepted. In consequence of this measure about sixty families settled on each Township, and made great improvements of the land. Those settlers employed the then agent for the said prov- ince at the Court of Great Britain, to solicit the Royal approbation of those grants; and in the year 1773, as also in the last year (1780) they sent an agent expressly on their own account, for the same pur- pose, and further to pray that His Majesty would be graciously pleased to sever that District from the Province of Massachusetts Bay, and erect it into a Government under the authority of the Crown; which solicitation has hitherto, however, been without effect. The inhabitants of this country are in general loyal, except those of the Township of Machias,* who have at that place a small fort under the direction of Congress, and about 135 Indian war- * This township was granted by the General Assembly ten years after the first thirteen Townships were granted. 330
Page 331
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 43 riors of the Machias tribe, in their interest; all the other tribes of Northern Indians are in the King's peace. The soil of this Country is good and well adapted to the cul- ture of every sort of English grain, as well as hemp, flax, etc., but is more especially proper for grassing (in which it excels every other part of America) and for breeding cattle, sheep, swine and horses. Its woods abound with moose t and other kinds of deer, beaver and several kinds of game good for food. A few miles from the sea-coast are large tracts of land, cov- ered with pine trees, suitable for masts of the largest size.} Timber for ship-building, staves, boards, and all other sorts of lumber. On the rivers and streams there were more than 200 saw mills when the rebellion broke out, and many more might be erected. The rivers abound with salmon and various other kinds of fish; several of which rivers are navigable 50 or 60 miles for ships of 300 tons, and much further for small craft. There are, on the sea- coast from Falmouth to Passamaquodie, which is about 70 leagues, more than twenty harbours; many of them are very large, with deep water and good bottom, and are not incommoded with ice in the winter season, viz.: Falmouth, Sheepscut, Townsend, George Islands, Penobscot, Algemogin, Bass, Cranberry Island, French- man's Bay, Gooldsborough, Machias, Narraguagus,! and East Pas- somaquodie. In each of these harbours ships of the largest size may ride in safety in the most violent winds. In the harbour of f When full grown the carcass weighs from 600 to 800 Ibs. J For this article Britain has hitherto been obliged to the Northern Powers, Rus- sia in particular. i H Falmouth consisted of what is now Portland, Westbrook and Falmouth, and the harbor is Portland harbor. Townsend was what is now Boothbay. Cranberry Islands lie on the outside of Mount Desert Island. Narraguagus Bay is at Millbridge. 331
Page 332
44 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT Majabigwaduce is a large sandy beach; the tide flows from 15 to 18 feet, and a dock-yard may be erected there at a small expence, for the collection of masts, lumber, etc., and to heave down the largest men of war. Near the entrance of the harbour is good fishing ground, where cod, shell and several other kinds of fish are taken in plenty. In October, 1772, there were in this District, 42 towns and 2638 families,§ who have since greatly increased, at least in the pro- portion of one-fourth, which is 659 families, making in the whole 3297 families. Reckoning these, five souls to each family (which is a moderate computation) there are now 16,485 souls. To this New Country the Loyalists resort with their families (last summer, particularly, a great number of families were preparing to remove thither) from the New England Provinces, and find an asylum from the tyranny of Congress and their tax-gatherers, as well as daily employment in fishing, lumbering, clearing and preparing land for their subsistence; and there they continue, in full hope and pleasing expectation, that they may soon re-enjoy the liberties and privi- leges which would be best secured to them by laws, and under a form of government, modelled after the British Constitution; and that they may be covered in their possessions, agreeably to the peti- tion to the Throne, in 1773; which was renewed last year. Should this District be severed from the Province of Massa- chusetts Bay, and erected into a Province under the authority of the Crown, and the inhabitants quieted in their possessions, it would be settled with amazing rapidity; the Royal Navy, West India Islands, and other parts of His Majesty's Dominion, well and plentifully served for centuries to come from this District, with every article above mentioned without being obliged to other Powers for the same; and the profits of the whole would fall into the lap of Great Britain in return for her manufactures. Roads § As appears by a list then taken by a respectable person. 332
Page 333
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 45 would moreover be opened for communication with other His Majesty's Provinces, which migh be travelled in a short time by the following routes: Distance from Quebeck, MILES To Passadonkeeg, Indian Old Town, on Penobscot River 63 Sawedabscook 35 Fort Halifax on Kennebeck River 19 * Pownalborough 33 Falmouth 54 Portsmouth 53 Boston 65 324 Distance from Annapolis, Nova Scotia. MILES To St. John's, 16 leagues 48 Penobscot River 55 Fort Halifax 19 Boston 205 327 N. B. From Boston to Fort Halifax is a good Cart Road. (P. 35) Fort Pownall was built by Governor Thomas Pownall and was com- pleted in July, 1759. It was on Fort Point in what is now Stockton, Maine, at the head of Penobscot Bay, fourteen miles from Belfast. It was dismantled in 1776 by Captain Henry Mowat, and in 1779 the British burned the buildings and leveled the earthworks to make it useless. * Pownalborough consisted of what is now Dresden, Alna, Perkins and Wis- casset, Maine, and was the shire town of Lincoln County. 883
Page 334
CAPTAIN HENRY MOWAT'S ACCOUNT (In the catalogue of a London bookseller, in 1843, appeared for sale a manuscript relating to the services of Capt. Henry Mowat in America. It was disposed of, to -whom was unknown. The title was "A relation of the services in which Captain Henry Mowat was engaged in America, from 1759 to the end of the American War in 1783." Search was instituted by Maine historians for the manuscript. Judge Joseph Williamson, of Belfast, Maine, advertised abroad, in 1887, " I will pay five pounds for evidence of the existence of the manuscript." On November 20, 1890, it was received by Hon. James P. Baxter, of Portland, from Edinburgh, and was published in part, with its history, in the Collections of the Maine Historical Society, Series II, Vol. 2, page 345. The original manuscript of fifty-nine pages is now in the possession of that society. The following is the part relating to the occupancy of the Penobscot by the British during the Revolution; be- ginning with the middle of page 7 and ending near the bottom of page 21. Punctuation, spelling and capitalization are as in the original.) THE Albany at last was called to New York in the beginning of 1779—orders had not long before arrived from Britain for taking post in Penobscot Bay, and Capt. Mowat's ex- perience of the New England Coast being well known to Sir Henry Clinton on former occasions, he was proposed by his Excellency approved by Admiral Gambier as the fittest to command the naval part of the Force. The Admiral desiring to know the force necessary for the Service, was answered it should be Superior to any the Enemy at Boston could readily collect on such Emer- gency. It was accordingly settled it should be so, and that Cap- tain Mowat should have a ship equal to the Importance of the ob- ject. In the meantime the Store of Powder in the Garrison at Halifax being totally exhausted, Captain Mowat received on board the Albany and proceeded with an ample Supply, the orders and 884
Page 335
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 47 Every equipment for the Expedition, being intended to follow: but he had no sooner landed the Powder, than he was ordered by Sir George Collier to the Bay of Fundy, and Sir George repaired soon after to New York where he was left the Senior Officer on the American Station. On this change taking place, Captain Mowat, from reasons otherwise foreign to this Narrative, Considered it Necessary to urge what he had formerly represented to Admiral Gambier, and he wrote to New York from the Bay of Fundy, that if the Albany were to be the leading Ship, it would by no means be safe to trust the Expedition with one of her class, unless a Sufficient force should cruize between it & the enemy, until the post should be established. This representation appears to have had no effect, for the orders for the Albany alone soon after arrived at Halifax, and were delivered by Capt. Gaylor of the Romulus to General McLean until the Albany should arrive. Thus, if the Albany had happened to lead the Expedition ac- cording to the order, the whole must have been intercepted as we shall shortly see, & carried to Boston for a mere Novice might have conceived at once She was not fit to conduct it safely. The Consequences, which must be estimated according to the view & State of affairs at that time in America, Would have been tremen- dous. It would have been equivalent to a Second Burgoynade be- fore there were time for repairing, or forgetting, the first: an im- mense Encouragement for the Americans, who were tiring of the length of the war, to exert their remaining resources, for the Opposition to exercise their clamor, and a proportional depression of the Spirits of the Loyalists. To the Southward we had but a slender footing in Georgia against such a disaster, the reinforce- ments not arrived as yet And the Army there inactive for Security. To the Northward Canada was not so strong as it had been ren- dered in the Succeeding Year, And Nova Scotia at least, lying con- 335
Page 336
48 A JOUBNAE OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT tiguous to the territory of Penobscot, would have been over- whelmed, for by this detachment the Garrison of Halifax had been by the one-half reduced. This disposition of the Service must ap- pear the more strange as we know Sir George Collier was by no means ignorant of the rebel force in the New England Ports. But the dire Event was prevented by a mere accident & that the most fortunate in the World; for the Dispatch, forwarded by General McLean, did not reach the Bay of Fundy where Capt. Mowat was stationed, nor did he in Consequence get round to Hali- fax, until the latest moment having elapsed the General put the order into the hands of Captain Barclay* of the Blonde Frigate, then Senior officer of the Navy there, who immediately put the North & Nautilus sloops of war under orders to proceed with himself And they were on the point of sailing when the Albany ar- rived. However this did not alter Captain Barclay's judicious de- termination. They proceeded, had a long passage As might be ex- pected at the Season, and at last arrived at Penobscot: The Rebel frigates, Boston & Providence, who were cruizing on the Coast of Nova Scotia westward of Halifax, finding the Convoy Superior to what they expected, did not think proper to attack it. In a few days after the troops were landed, the Blonde de- parted, leaving Captain Mowat under a copy of Sir George Col- lier's original orders, with directions for the North and Nautilus & all the transports to return to Halifax. Now soon the stores were landed for Captain Barclay had brought the Sloops of War there without Sir George Collier's orders, Captain Mowat rinding the wretched Albany was to be left thus alone, to lie in an open har- *Andrew Barklay, the captain of the frigate Blonde, called by one who saw her, "a beautiful ship," was a Loyalist from Boston. He was a pro- testor against the Whigs in 1774. After peace was declared, accompanied by his family of ten persons and by four servants, he left New York for Shelburne, Nova Scotia, where the Crown granted him fifty acres of land, one town and one water lot He was living there in 1805. 336
Page 337
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 49 bour distant from every Aid, and in the Jaws of the most powerful of the rebellious Colonies, to co-operate with about 700 troops in a fort not yet begun to be erected, was convinced it would be for the good of His Majesty's Service to use the utmost Lati- tude, the order would admit of, to postpone the departure of the Ships, from the following view of the Situation of the Armament. The Bay of the Penobscot is spacious and capable of contain- ing all the Navy in the World. In a corner of it about fourteen leagues distant from the open Sea, near the Embrochure (sic) of Penobscot River is the Harbour of Magebigwaduce. This Harbour is formed on the one Side by the Mainland, and along the entire other side of it Stretches the Peninsula of Magebigwaduce. Cross * —now Nautilus Island—is at the entrance of the Harbor. The Peninsula of Magebigwaduce is a high Ridge of land at that time much encumbered with wood. To its summit, where the fort was ordered to be erected there is an ascent of more than a quarter of a mile from the nearest shore of the harbour. The Provisions, Artillery and Engineer Stores and the equip- age of the troops, being landed on the Beach, must be carried to the Ground of the fort chiefly by the labor of the men against the as- cent, there being only a Couple of small teams to Assist in it. The ground & all the Avenues to it, was to be examined, cleared from wood, and at the same time guarded. Materials were to be col- lected & prepared, And the defences, as well as every convenience of the fort, were to be reared. Let any one conversant in Matters of this Nature, reflect what a work it was for 700 men, And he will also readily allow, that in the Course of it they could not possibly, whether from fatigue, or in point of Necessary Preparation be in Condition of repelling any powerful attack. That, as appears also 1 Nautilus or Cross Island, sometimes called Banks' Island, for its owner, is southeast of Castine in Penobscot Bay and was named for the sloop of war Nautilus. 837
Page 338
50 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT from the rebel General Lovel's letter, everything depended on our Men of War being able to prevent the Enemy from entering the Harbour, which was not liable to be commanded or protected by the Guns of the Fort. That the Harbour once forced, a Superior Num- ber of the Enemy might land on the most convenient parts of the Peninsula, cut off the communication of our Troops with that con- siderable part of the Necessary Stores, which to the last while the fort was erecting, must unavoidably be left on the Beach, force them to retire within the unfinished Breastwork, where Surrounded without cover, Comfort or defence, they could have no alternative but to yield Prisoners of War in a few days, or to risk an action against thrice their number on ground from its Nature more favor- able to the Enemy's mode of fighting than for theirs. It is alto- gether Superfluous to comment any farther on the orders by which a harbour, of this Importance must be left to the sole protection of the Albany Sloop, carrying ten Six and Six four pounders. The Blonde Frigate had not been many days departed, when Captain Mowat having taken Measures for procuring the best infor- mation from Boston, concluded that the Post would soon be at- tacked, and he proposed to General McLean to give his concurrence for detaining the North & Nautilus, as well as the Transports, judging the General's Consent to be eligible, because otherwise he would be liable to Account for acting contrary to the orders left with him. The General equally confident in the Intelligence, gave his Concurrence, and accordingly in the fifth week from the Arrival of the Royal Armament at Penobscot, the Rebel fleet appeared in the Bay, consisting of eighteen vessels of war as per the margin,** besides Transports having on board all necessary Stores and be- tween two and three thousand Land forces. At that time a great portion of the stores had not as yet been ** No list attached. 338
Page 339
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 51 carried up to the fort. Its Scite was lower by several feet, than a piece of ground at the distance of six hundred yards. The Para- pet, fronting this higher ground was scarcely four feet high. All the other parts of the Parapet, paralell to the Harbour of Mage- bagwaduce and in the rear, were not three feet high. The two Bastions to the harbour were quite open. The troops were en- camped on the area, which might be about the Space of an Acre, there had been a Shade erected for the Provisions. The Powder was lodged in covered holes dug in the proposed Glacis: There was but a Single Gun Mounted, & that a Six Pounder. The Naval force in Magebagwaduce Harbour were the Al- bany, North & Nautilus, Sloops of War, Commanded by Captains Mowat, Selby and Farnham, and four Transports. In this force and State of Preparation, one may easier con- ceive than describe the anxiety & hopes of all concerned on the ap- pearance of so formidable an Armament. The enemy came up, and paraded before the entrance of the harbour, in perfect confidence of entering it without difficulty, which would have been the case had the Albany been alone, and then everything would have been over at once; but there was such an excellent Disposition made of the Sloops of War & Transports in the entrance of the Harbour, as baffled every attempt of the En- emy to force it for three days—then they prepared to land their troops on a Bluff of the Peninsula without the harbour, where the General could place pickets communicating with the Main body in the fort, to watch & to oppose, the debarkation. These three or four days of Embarrassment on the part of the rebels gave our troops time to do something more to the Fort, to carry up the most necessary Stores, to mount several guns, and in short to devote every Endeavor to the present Exigency. The En- emy, having failed in their attempts on the harbour, effected at last 889
Page 340
52 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT a landing on the bluff, and by superior numbers forced the Pickets into the Fort, took possession of the high ground, above men- tioned, within six hundred yards thereof & immediately erected their Batteries and Lines. In this Position both Parties continued firing at one another during the whole Siege. Our Troops, tho' extremely harassed, were daily getting into a better Situation, with the Assistance of the Seamen, and the Requisites which the Men of War furnished, as well as their own Stores. Secure on the Flanks & in the rear while our Ships maintained the Harbour, they had only to exert their chief attention & Efforts on the side fronting the Enemies Lines, which effectually deterred the latter from advancing in that direc- tion. They had erected Batteries on Nautilus Island, & in the rear of the harbour, all within point blanc shot shot of any position, in which the ships could be placed, but the proper choice of different stations on every emergency eluded their utmost efforts to enter it. Thus both sides were employed, ashore & afloat, for 21 Days, in a variety of Manouveres, which are in part described in a Journal kept by an officer on shore & published by J. C. Esq. In the Mean time Intelligence having reached New York, that Penobscot was attacked, Sir George Collier Sailed to its relief, with the Raisonable Ship of the Line, Blonde, Virginia, Carnulla, Galatea, &c. They were perceived off Penobscot Bay by the rebel look-out vessel in the Evening. In the course of the night they embarked their Troops, &c., and in the Morning early their fleet was seen under Sail; but the wind failing them to get round the upper end of Long Island, they had no alternative but to run up Penobscot River. These Manouvres were a proof that the Strange Ships sailing up the Bay were a relief and the three Sloops of 840
Page 341
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 58 War being employed from daylight in embarking the part of their Guns that were ashore on the Batteries, &c., &c., were able to join in the center of the King's Ships: during the pursuit one of the rebel vessels struck, after a few shots, to the Blonde & Virginia: Another ran ashore at the same time some distance below the mouth of the River, and was some time after taken possession of by the Raisonable, which brought up the rear: All the rest, with the ad- vantage of good pilots & of a whole flood tide which happened in the night, got such a distance up the River, as afforded time for destroying them, And the crews made the best of their way to New England, thro' the woods, in the utmost distress. Thus ended the attack on Penobscot.—It was positively the severest blow received by the American Naval force during the War. The trade to Canada, which was intended, after the expected reduction of the Post of Penobscot, to be intercepted by this very armament, went safe that Season: The New England Provinces did not for the remaining period of the contest recover the loss of Ships, and the Expence of fitting out the Expedition: Every thought of attempting Canada, & Nova Scotia, was thenceforth laid aside, and the trade & Transports from the Banks of New- foundland along the Coast of Nova Scotia, &c: enjoyed unusual Security. After all was over, it was natural to be expected, that Sir George Collier would have been Supremely happy to have repre- sented this important Service in its proper colors, and that Capt. Mowat would, according to the Custom of the Service, have been sent home with the Account: But in answer to the Claim, Sir George expressed the utmost regret, that he could not spare a Ship from the Station: assured that if he intended to send an officer to England Capt. Mowat would certainly be the person; that he only meant to transmit the Despatches by New York, in which he pledged his word, as he held it to be no more than his duty, that the 841
Page 342
54 A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT Services of the Sloops of War would be represented in the most honorable Manner to the Admiralty— On the next day & before there was time to attend to writing the Official Account of the Siege, he put the Albany under orders to proceed up Penobscot River to the Rebel Wrecks, observing it would be some time before he would leave the Bay—This done he departed abruptly for New York, and had no sooner gone out to Sea, than the Greyhound's Signal was made to part Company, And she proceeded directly to England with his Account. Her destination had been Kept a Secret from everyone, Gen- eral McLean excepted, who in his publick Letter Acknowledges having been privately informed. This is the Manner, in which Captain Mowat was prevented Sending an Official Account of the Siege, And, Notwithstanding Sir George Collier having solemnly pledged himself as above, we See his account to the Admiralty confined to the Merit which we will readily allow him of sailing from New York to the relief with a Squadron Which the United Naval force of All America was incompetent to resist even in a Crescent & to a description of the Disposition & destruction of the Rebel Ships, which however could not be discerned by any one from on board the Raisonable: The Service of the three Sloops of War during the Siege were totally omitted & their Captains not even named. When Admiral Arbuthnot's arrival had put an end to Sir George Collier's Command, Captain Mowat hoped some Justice would have been done him for the Service performed at Penobscot, at least so far as the laying a fair representation of it before the Ad- miralty, but there was not the least notice taken of him, and he was left at Magebigwaduce under a continuation of the distress of seeing also, that every Promotion, made by this Admiral, was without a single exception, of officers Junior to him: Among these an Officer, who had received his first Commission into the Albany 349
Page 343
A JOURNAL OF THE SIEGE OF PENOBSCOT 55 when Captain Mowat was appointed to her, was made Post Cap- tain: It is not from any individious (sic) Motive this Instance is given on Captain's Mowat's part: None can be more happy in the good fortune of an Officer, with whose great Merit he has had op- portunities of being well Acquainted: but it is a Contrast to the glaring Injustice himself has Met with. Henry Mowat was born in Scotland in 1734. He was the son of Capt. Patrick Mowat of H. M. S. Dolphin. After an experience of six years he was commissioned as lieutenant of the Baltimore in 1756. The certificate of his "passing" in the Admiralty records sets forth "He produceth records kept by himself in the Chesterfield and Ramlit (Ramillies) (as midshipman) and certifi- cates from Captains Ogle and Hobbs of the Dilligence, etc.; he can splice, knot, reef a sail, etc., and is qualified to do the duty of an able seaman and midship- man." In 1762, he was promoted to be a commander and served as such on the Canceaux twelve years. It was during this time that he destroyed Falmouth Neck, now Portland. This event occurred October 18, 1775, and for it he was de- nounced by our forefathers and Washington wrote of his conduct, " I know not how sufficiently to detest it." Mowat was then forty-one years old. He had been eaptured at Falmouth Neck, the May before, and was released on his promise to return the next morning, which promise he did not keep. His next vessel, the sloop Albany, was the flag-ship of the squadron at Penobscot. He served his King forty-four years, about thirty of which were on our coast. On board his ship, the Assistance, about five miles from Cape Henry, Va., April 14, 1798, he was stricken with apoplexy, died aged sixty-four years, and was buried in St. John's churah yard, at Hampton, Va. He left a son, John Alexander, who entered the navy in 1804. , Nathan Goold. 843
Page 344
J v
End of Title Page. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 345
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE IN THE FORTY-FIRST REGIMENT OF FOOT (1807-1814) BY SHADRACH BYFIELD BRADFORD (ENGLAND) JOHN BUBB 1840 NEW YORK Reprinted WILLIAM ABBATT 1910 (Being Extra No. 11 of THE MAGAZINE OF HISTORY WITH NOTES AND QUERIES.) 345
Page 346
A* near a factimile at the original u possible. A NARRATIVE or A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE, v THE 41sT REGIMENT OF FOOT, DURING THE LATE AMERICAN WAR; TOGETBZ* WITH SOME ADVENTURES AHONGIT THE INDIAN TRIBES, FROM 1812 TO 1814. BRADFORD: PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY JOHN BUBB: AND SOLD BY THE AUTHOR. Price One Shilling. 1840.
Page 347
S EDITOR'S PREFACE O far as investigation has shown, there is but a single copy known of the Narrative of Shadrach Byfield; and even this has only come to light within three years. It is from this original, now owned by Mr. Wilberforce Eames, and by his per- mission that our present edition is made. The style is so good as to make it tolerably certain that the soldier (who acknowledges himself to have neglected educational opportunities) enjoyed the advantage of a more skilled amanuensis; but it is occasionally relieved by a phrase of pure Doric, stamping it with the hall-mark of genuine rustic English. As a contribution to the scanty literature of the War of 1812 it possesses much positive value, particularly in its details regard- ing the Indian allies of the British. While one or two references to the same facts are to be found in letters of British officers, noth- ing from a private soldier has heretofore been known to exist; and his revelation of the savages' atrocities is of genuine historical interest. His vivid account of the various actions in which he shared leaves little to be desired; and though but one of those whom Napier describes in his Peninsular War as "conquering under the cool shade of aristocracy, no honors awaiting his daring, his life of danger and hardship uncheered by hope "—it is evident both from his story and his being one of the light-infantry (the best men of each regiment) that he was considerably above the average private in intelligence. That one of our own writers who has seen fit to sneer at 1812 as "an opera-bouffe war" might well read the simple statement 847
Page 348
60 editor's preface of Byfield's company, reduced from 110 men to 15 by death, wounds and capture. Such losses do not point to Scott, Pike, Ripley and their men as carrying on anything but war in deadly earnest. Editor. 348
Page 349
A NARRATIVE I WAS born at Woolley, near Bradford, in the county of Wilts, on the 16th day of September, 1789, the same day on which his Majesty King George the Third came from Long- leat to Trowbridge. I entered the Militia service in the year 1807. My mother on hearing I was enlisted (and having two sons before in the army) was so affected that on the evening of the same day she fell in a fit and never spoke after, and I was obliged to march off the next morning; she expired on the third day after. Our route was for Newcastle upon Tyne, where I joined the Wilt- shire regiment of Militia. After I had learned my discipline the regiment marched to Norman Cross, to do duty over French prisoners. Those of us who were not perfect in our duty were detached to Petersburgh for improvement; myself with others were soon returned to prison, being considered fit for duty. Our next route was for Ipswich (Suffolk) ; I then got a furlough to go home to see my friends. After returning to my regiment an order was given for volunteer- ing to the line; a considerable number volunteered to the 41st foot, and having a brother in that corps I was one of the number: the volunteers soon marched for Portsmouth, and from thence to the Isle of Wight, in May, 1809, embarked on board the Robert trans- port, and sailed for Quebec; we had a good passage, and arrived In about nine or ten weeks. While at anchor off Quebec we received orders to take boats and go up the river St. Lawrence; a few miles up the river an aide-de-camp from the beach communi- cated counter-orders, and we returned to Quebec and occupied (the) Jesuits' barracks. After having been there some time, a sergeant came into the barrack-room and asked if there was a lad 849
Page 350
62 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE who wished to be groom to the Quartermaster-General; I replied that I would go. Having dressed myself the sergeant took me to the Quartermaster-General, who asked me if I understood looking after horses; I said I did not, but that I was willing to learn. He replied, " You are the lad, I do not want one that knows too much "; he appeared to take an interest in me, as he used to come himself and instruct me in cleaning the horses, &c., and ordered me to Lower Town, to be measured for two suits of clothes. In the winter he went to Montreal and took me with him, and understand- ing that I had a brother in the 41st, asked me if I should like to see him, as the regiment was expected at Montreal; he gave me leave to wait his arrival, after which I was to return to Quebec without him, as he was going into the States for a short time. While in company with my brother Colonel ProctorJ enquired who I was, I being dressed in coloured clothes; 2 he was told I was one of the volunteers come out to join the regiment; he ordered me into the barracks, where I received a suit of regimentals and was ordered into the ranks. I felt very much hurt at being taken away from my master without his knowledge. When he returned from the States to Montreal, and finding that I was not gone to Quebec, he sent to the barracks for me. I waited on him and he asked me why I had not returned to Quebec; I told him the reason and asked if he would wait on the colonel to get me leave to go with him. He said he should not humble (himself) to the colonel, but the clothes and the money he gave me I was to keep. I was then put into the same company my brother was in (Captain Crowder's f) • I had not joined the company long when my captain asked me if I was a scholar, and when I told him I was not, he wished me to go to 'This was Henry Proctor, Lieut. Colonel of the 41st, whom we shall meet again. His record during the war of 1812 is part of history. He became a brigadier general but proved unworthy of the promotion. 2 Civilian clothes is meant. f William L. Crowther. 350
Page 351
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER' S SERVICE 63 school, and said that he would make a non-commissioned officer of me; which offer I refused, being young and foolish Some time after this I was picked out for the light infantry company (Cap- tain Muir's *). Soon after the flank companies received orders to go to Quebec, to form light and heavy brigades, where I had the pleasure of seeing my old master, who treated me very kindly; the brigade was broken up and we returned to Montreal. After lying there about a year and a half we received a route for Fort George.3 While (t)here several incidents happened in which my life was wonderfully preserved. One day while standing on the quay, a sergeant who was ordered to York * on command, when going on board his sword fell from its scabbard into the water. I heard him lamenting about it very much, and being a good swimmer I un- dressed, went into the water and dived for it, found it and brought it up. The sergeant was very thankful and offered me anything I would accept; but this act produced a fit of illness (I being under water a considerable time) and it affected my head. Soon after my recovery, as we were on a fishing party, I was employed in holding one end of the net; and with the violence of the wind and the waves I was pulled into the water from the ice on which I was standing, and came into contact with the boat and was almost squeezed to death between the boat and the ice. I was pulled into the boat and carried to the barracks, very much bruised, but no bones were broken. Soon after this we heard that war was pro- claimed between England and America. One Sunday morning, being on sentry on the bank of the river St. Lawrence, I saw a boat drifting down the river, without any person in it; a party of men was warned to go and bring in the boat. While the men were out, the Americans fired on them, which * Adam Muir. 3 Opposite Youngstown, N. Y., and about seven miles north of Queenstown, Canada. 4 Now Toronto. S51
Page 352
64 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE was the first shot I saw fired in anger. On their return General Brocks being informed of the transaction ordered them out imme- diately, to bring in the boat, and said if they fired again he would open the batteries upon them; they went out and brought her in without any further firing. The General immediately gave orders for a large bank to be thrown up, in front of the American fort, to preserve the town. Every man went to work immediately, the General staying with us all night. As the flank companies did the duty at the Government House, I was amongst them. Our gen- eral was very much beloved; he used to come out and talk familiarly with us. After fortifying the town, we understood the Americans had crossed the river from Detroit to Sandwich, to which place we were ordered to march. We proceeded to Oxford and collected as many volunteers as we could, and from thence to Long Point, where General Brock met us with reinforcements. We then went on to Malden. The general there gave orders for every man that was fit for duty to march for Sandwich, and we left Malden under his command. The Americans had erected works at Sandwich, but hearing that we were advancing, they burnt and destroyed them, and returned over to Detroit. When we arrived at Sandwich the general gave orders to build batteries opposite the town and fort of Detroit. When the works were completed, which was on Sunday morning, August 16, 1812, orders were given for the batteries to be opened, and about five hundred of the troops, besides a few Indians and volunteers, were ordered to cross the river in boats, below Sand- wich: our general was with us; we made our landing good and marched towards the town. When we entered the field in front of the American fort we were marched rank and file, and halted; the enemy at the same time marched out of the fort and formed in three columns; after a short time they returned into the fort again. "Afterwards Sir Isaac, major-general and lieutenant-colonel of the 49th Foot, killed at the battle of Queenstown, October 13, 1812. "V 352
Page 353
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 65 Our general gave orders that all the spare jackets were to be given to the volunteers, and extended the lines as far as possible. After awhile an officer came from the fort with a flag of truce: General Brock came up to meet the flag of truce, with his attend- ants to the advance. I was on the advance with the general at the time, and from what we could hear the officer wanted three days' cessation; to which our general replied if they did not yield in three hours, he would blow up every one of them. The officer went back with this message, and returned very soon, with an authority to sur- render the fort; the enemy shortly after marched out of the fort and laid down their arms, and we marched in. There was a party warned (of which I was one) to go through the fort, to see if any of the enemy were remaining in it, when I saw three American officers lying dead. One of the men told that one of the officers (had) said, before night he would wash his hands in British blood. We found two or three of the enemy re- maining in the officers' apartments; they were about to destroy the colors of the 4th American regiment, but we took the colours from them. Entering another room, I saw several men and ordered them out. Whilst walking along I slipped and nearly fell; one of the men said, "My dear man, that is the brains of a man killed with one of our shots." After we had got possession, and the prisoners were sent off, our general, who was about to leave us, assembled the troops and thanked them for their gallantry, saying it would be a feather in our caps as long as we lived. Orders were then given to fire off the Americans' arms. After discharging many of them, we were obliged to leave off and draw the charges, as they were so heavily loaded, some with a musket ball and nine buckshots. But notwithstanding I thus shared in the dangers of the capture, I have received no share of the prize-money. Two different payments have been made for Detroit, amounting to several pounds each man, but I have received neither; owing to the neglect of the clerk or 853
Page 354
66 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER S SERVICE some other cause my name was omitted from being inserted in the prize-list. After this news was received that the Indians had surrounded an American fort. About two hundred of us, under the command of Captain Muir, were ordered to march towards the Mawme8 Rapids. We encamped for several days; we then received orders to march to Fort Defiance.7 Part of us marched through the woods, the others, with the ammunition and provisions went up the Mawme river in boats. We halted one night, the next morning crossed the river and marched on through the woods until we came to a large open space, where we camped. In the evening Lieutenant Barnett came to us and asked us for some provisions, as he had tasted none all the day. We being scarce, my comrade asked me what he was to do. I told him to give him some, as he was a gentle- man and a soldier. In the night we were alarmed by an Indian whoop; every man was instantly ordered to stand to his arms. In a short time six Indians and an interpreter entered the camp, who informed the captain that they had been out as spies, and in the evening, whilst passing through the woods, they saw a light and made towards it. On arriving near they discovered five Americans surrounding a fire; they drew near, and when the Americans saw them they ran to their arms. They (the Indians) ordered them to give them up immediately. One of the Americans, who was an officer, asked if they had any British soldiers in camp. They replied " No." He then said, "We will not go with you, but you shall come with us." The Indians immediately surrounded them and took them prisoners. While marching them, the officer was heard by the interpreter to say to the men, "Kill four of the Indians, and make your escape "; 6 Mautnee. 7 At the junction of the Maumee and Auglaize rivers, fifty miles from Fort Wayne, Indiana. 354.
Page 355
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 67 upon which the interpreter ordered the Indians to kill four of the Americans, which they did; the officer endeavouring to escape, the interpreter shot him whilst running, t To convince our captain that what they related was true, they pulled from their girdles the five scalps, the officer's ears, and a silver-mounted dagger. We were then ordered to lie upon our arms, and in the morning we returned to Fort Defiance, crossed the river and encamped. The next morning we heard an Indian whoop. Soon after the Indians brought in an American prisoner. The captain asked the prisoner who he was and how he was taken. He said he was a quartermaster-sergeant8 of an American regiment, and was out hunting for honey. The captain then asked him how many they had in camp, and how far they were off. He replied, about 9000, and that they intended to camp there to-night, but that it was doubtful, as they had to cut the road through the wood for the cannon. Captain Muir then said to Captain Elliott9 (commanding the Indians), "We had better retreat as quickly as possible." Captain Elliott replied, he would rather an attempt might be made to cut off their advance. Our captain answered, "If we are ex- posed to one volley I shall lose all my men, therefore I* think it advisable to retreat," to which Captain Elliott agreed. We then lightened the boats, by throwing the shot overboard, and retreated to Malden. After this we were again sent to the Mawme Rapids, with two f This was the Indians' story; the facts are that the party consisted of Ensign Leggett, 17th U. S. Infantry, and four privates of a Woodford (Ky.) volunteer company. The probability is that the unfortunate squad were sur- prised while asleep, and all murdered. 8 The sergeant was McCoy, of the regiment commanded by Gov. Charles Scott, of Kentucky. History records that his shrewd reply caused Muir's retreat. Contemporary accounts say the latter had a thousand Indians, besides his two hundred regulars. 0 We shall hear of Elliott again, at the river Raisin. 355
Page 356
68 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER^ SERTICE gunboats and 11 or 12 pieces of ordnance, and landed about one mile and a half before we came to Fort Maggs * on the opposite shore. We then moved to nearly opposite the American fort, and began to erect batteries. Our preparations were soon discovered by the enemy, and they endeavoured to annoy us, by opening their batteries upon us, but we persevered until we had completed the works, with little or no loss, and we then returned the fire. We had a proof that our guns were doing execution, for one of our officers, with his glass, saw a man employed upon a building in the fort;10 he supposed he was covering their magazine with turf. This officer pointed out the man to one of our gunners, who took an elevation and discharged the gun; the officer saw the man fall from the building. Sergeant Smith and six of the light company (I being one of the number) were ordered to dig a place, for to lay a mortar, in front of the American fort. Sergeant Smith ordered me to go to the other battery and let the artillery officer know that the work was ready for the platform; and as I came up from the work I looked towards the fort and saw a smoke ascend, and then fell to the ground,-when a ball passed over me and struck into the earth. I then went and gave the orders that Sergeant Smith sent me with. A few days after this, the grenadiers and light infantry were ordered back to the camp, and from thence crossed the river with a six-pounder and an howitzer, landed, and in the evening marched to within three or four hundred yards of the fort, and occupied a ravine where the enemy's guns could not bear on us, and by the morning made platforms for the gun and howitzer and commenced a fire upon the fort. Here we remained some days, and at night * Fort Maggs is a strong fortification on the American side of the river. (Byfield't Note.) 10 Fort Meigs was built by Lieutenant-colonel E. D. Wood, of the Engineers, who was killed at the sortie from Fort Erie, in 1814, and whose monument, erected by his comrade, General Jacob Brown, is at West Point, N. Y. 856
Page 357
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 69 sentries were posted in the woods, about 30 or 40 yards from the fort. While lying in the ravine one day, I went up to look round, when a ball came near my head and struck a tree. I then looked round and saw an artilleryman shaving his comrade; the ball re- bounded from the tree and struck the man that was shaved, in his head. He died in the evening of the same day, and left a wife and three children to mourn his melancholy fate. One night, as I was on sentry, I heard a person coming through the woods. He accosted me and gave me to understand that the Americans were coming down on the other side of the river. When I went off sentry I acquainted the captain with what the Indian had said, who treated it very lightly; but about ten o'clock the next morning we heard a great noise and firing from the other side of the river.11 On looking towards our batteries we were sur- prised to see our colours down; 1300 of the enemy's troops had come, down and got possession of the batteries, with all the ordnance, &c. We then received orders to recross the river, and I and one of my comrades had orders to take a box of ammunition and throw it into a creek, to prevent its coming into the hands of the enemy. By the time we had done this the enemy had marched out of the forts, when my comrade said to me, "We can stop here, we have no need to go back to the fight "; but I replied, "What, see your comrades fighting and not go back to help them? If you don't go back I will shoot you." I hastened back, but cannot tell how he acted. When I joined them they were rallying for the charge. We charged them close under the fort, but were obliged to retreat because of their great guns, and were ordered to make the best of our way to the boats, to cross the river. Several of the officers and men were taken prisoners. After crossing the river we had orders to march towards the batteries as quickly as possible. When ad- 11 This was May 4, 1813. s 857
Page 358
70 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE vanced about half a mile we met a party of our men with a consider- able number of the Americans (prisoners)and were informed that, on news being received at the camp that the enemy had taken pos- session of the batteries, the whole force were ordered under arms and marched for the batteries. Sergeant-Major Keynes with 12 men advanced in front, and when they came in sight of the enemy they commenced firing. The Sergeant-Major was soon wounded in one of his arms, and lost several of his men, but that did not stop them, they were bold and courageous. The main force was not far behind and very soon the fight became general and continued about twenty minutes, when the Americans surrendered, but some of them escaped to the woods. We passed our men and the prisoners, and came to the bat- teries. The light infantry and a party of Indians received orders to go through the woods in search of those who had escaped. I witnessed several affecting scenes in this pursuit. I saw one of our men and one of the enemy lying dead near together. I saw another of the enemy that the Indians had met with and scalped, lying in a miserable plight and begging for water; while covering over his head with boughs, to screen it from the heat of the sun, a party of the Indians came up and found fault with us for shewing any lenity to the dying man; and one of them instantly despatched him with his tomahawk.12 We took several prisoners in the woods and marched them to the camp. In this affair a considerable num- ber on both sides were killed and wounded. The prisoners being secured and the detached men being come in, the Indians, who had lost many of their companions, began to manifest a disposition to be revenged on the prisoners, and actually fired amongst them and killed one of our men 13 who opposed them in their cruel intentions. 12 This was very likely Colonel William Dudley, of Kentucky. 18 An old and excellent soldier, Russell, of the 41st., was killed while en- deavoring to wrest a victim from the grasp of his assailant.—Richardson: War of 1812. S58
Page 359
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 71 Our officers interfered, and prevailed upon Captain Elliottu and some of their chiefs, to put a stop to their cruel proceedings. The prisoners were then put on board the boats for safety, and put out into the stream. The flank companies were ordered back to the batteries, where we encamped. The same evening we heard that the American general had agreed to surrender Fort Maggs; and the next morning we were ordered back to the camp, and from thence we crossed the river with a flag of truce, under the command of General Proctor. General Harris * came from the fort with his attendants, and met our general on the beach, who told him he was come to receive the fort, according to his proposal. The American general said he should not surrender. General Proctor replied, " What, not fulfill your own agreement?—that would be a violation of the honours of war," or words to that effect. He said he should not give up, for he knew his (General Proctor's) strength was far less than his own; and further, that he knew his strength as well as he himself did. He was willing to exchange prisoners, and when that was effected, if they were not away in two hours he would open his batteries upon them. It was thought that the American general gained his information respecting our strength from four men who deserted from us the preceding night. We exchanged prisoners and recrossed the river. We then embarked the ordnance, &c., went on board the boats with the remaining pris- oners, and sailed for Malden. The Enemy opened their guns upon us from the fort, but we were nearly clear of them, and sustained no loss. When we arrived at Malden we were employed when off duty, under the direction of engineers, in strengthening and throw- ing up works. While here, one day while on duty a sentinel was wanted on board a vessel, and I was sent. (I relate this circum- 14 Lossing (Field Book War of 1812), says Elliott was an uncle of two American officers: Captain Elliott of the 19th Infantry, and Captain Jesse Elli- ott, of the Navy, then on duty with the Lake Erie fleet. * William Henry Harrison. 359
Page 360
72 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE stance to shew something of the cruelty of the native Indians, when they have it in their power.) When I got on board the vessel, a person came from below, and was put in my charge; as we were walking the deck I entered into conversation with him, and as near as I can recollect, he related the following sad tale to me. I thought it deserved credit, for his feelings were much excited and the tears flowed freely and plentifully. He said he had a small fortified place, where he and others defended their property; if I remember right he said they were traders: "A party of Indians surrounded our place and told us that the British troops were near, and would undoubtedly destroy us and take away our property; but if we would admit them they would protect us and our property. Think- ing that this re-enforcement would be the means of preserving my- self, my family and my property, I consented and gave them pos- session; when they began the work of destruction. They first killed my associates and then cruelly murdered my children. Not satisfied with this they took my wife, who was in a forward state of pregnancy, and murdered her before my face; they then ripped her up and exposed the unborn infant, after which they took me off a prisoner." This was a very affecting relation; for hard and unfeeling as I then was, I could not help shedding tears on hearing it and seeing the distressed state of him who related it. Some time after this we were informed that the Enemy were at the river Reasin.t Orders were given to cross the river St. Law- rence. We landed at a place called Brown's Town15 and then proceeded for the river Reasin, with about 500 of our troops and a few Indians. We had to contend with about 1400 of the Enemy, under the command of General Winchester. When within about two miles of the Enemy we encamped for part of the night. Early in the morning we proceeded to meet them, and under cover of a T Raisin. 15 Michigan. 360
Page 361
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 73 wood we approached near to them unperceived; we formed the line and had a view of them as they surrounded their fires. While we were forming the Indians marched so as to get round their right flank. We had six field-pieces, which led on in front of the line. We were then discovered by one of their sentries, who chal- lenged and discharged his piece, which killed one of our grena- diers; we then gave three cheers and the Indians followed with a war-whoop; the fight then commenced very warmly. It was on the 22d day of January, 1813. Before daylight we had charged them several times, thinking that we were close upon their line, but our men were so cut up that after every attempt we were obliged to retreat to the covert of a rising piece of ground, with considerable loss. The men at the three guns16, in our front of the line, were all killed or wounded, with the exception of one man. One of our lieutenants (Clemon ") received three or four wounds by musket balls, and a field-officer, I think a lieutenant- colonel, fell, having received several shots, but (as he) was not killed four of our men advanced to defend him, one of whom took him up and carried him into the rear. As the day approached we discovered that what had supposed to have been the Enemy's line was a made fence, behind which they were sheltered, with holes in it through which they fired at us. About this time my comrade on my left hand was killed. It being now light, I saw a man come from the fence, when I said to my comrade "There is a man, I'll have a shot at him." Just as I had said these words and pulled my trigger, I received a ball under my left ear, and fell immediately; in falling I cut my comrade's leg with my bayonet. He exclaimed "Byfield is dead "—to which I replied "I believe I be," and I thought to myself " Is this death, or how men do die?" As soon as I had recovered, so as to raise my head from the ground, 16 So in the original, though on the preceding page he says six. 17 The British Army List gives the names of James Clemens and John William Clemon, as lieutenants of the 41stj 861
Page 362
74 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE I crept away upon my hands and knees and saw a sergeant in the rear who said, "Byfield, shall I take you to the doctor?" I said "Never mind me, go and help the men." I got to the place where the doctor was, who, when it came to my turn to be dressed, put a plaister to my neck and ordered me to go to a barn which was appointed for the reception of the wounded. As I was going the blood flowed so freely as to force off the plaister. I now saw a man between the woods, and asked him what he did there. He told me he was wounded in his leg. I observed to him that if I had not been worse that he was I should be back, helping the men. I then asked him to give me a pocket-handkerchief, to tie round my neck to stop the blood. He replied " I have not got one." I said "If I do not get something I shall bleed to death." He im- mediately tore off the tail of his shirt and wound it round my neck. I then got to the barn, and laid down with my fellow sufferers. I had not been there long before the doctor came and said "My dear fellows, you that can had better get away, for our men are terribly cut up and I fear we shall all be taken." He rode away, but soon returned saying, "My dear fellows, we have taken all of them prisoners"—at which news I exclaimed (being quite overjoyed), "I don't mind about my wound, since that is the case." While in the barn I was much affected by seeing and hearing a lad about II or 12 years of age, who was wounded in one of his knees. The little fellow's cries, from the pain of his wound, his crying after his dear mother, and saying that he should die, were so affecting that it was not soon forgotten by me. He was a midshipman be- longing to one of the gunboats; I think his name was Dickenson. I understood that while we were engaged with the enemy the In- dians pressed them on their right, and a part of the American force were sent to oppose them. The Indians overpowered them and killed a considerable num- ber (some of the Indians produced eight or nine scalps each). This no doubt was one of the principal causes of the enemy sur- 362
Page 363
A NAKRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 75 rendering. There was a heavy loss of killed and wounded on each side. When we arrived at Malden there was a general muster of our men's wives, anxious to learn whose husbands were amongst the killed and wounded. The hospital would not contain the wounded, in consequence of which some of them were put into the barracks. I was among the latter. The next morning I got my comrade to wash my neck and shoulder, and I told him there must be something the matter with my shoulder as I could scarcely lift my hand to my head. On examining my shoulder he thought he could feel a ball near the blade bone. I attended the doctor, and told him I had a job for him. On his examination he found that the ball which had entered my neck was lodged in my shoulder; he went to work and extracted it, and in about three weeks the wounds were nearly well, and I was able to attend to my duty. The prisoners and wounded were brought to Malden, and after a short stay were sent down the country. Our light company received orders to march to Sandwich, where some of the company that had been detached joined us. We soon returned to Malden again and from thence with a large party of Indians went for Mawme Rapids, and landed about two miles from Fort Maggs. A plan was then formed to draw General Harris and his force from the fort. A body of the Indians was placed in the woods, and di- rected to keep firing as though two parties were engaged, in order to make the American general believe that we had fallen in with a re-inforcement which he was expecting, and endeavouring to prevent their joining him. We were in readiness to advance and cut off his retreat to the fort, if he came out. He came out from the fort, but the weather was tremendous, with thunder, lightning and hail. We supposed that they suspected or discovered the cheat, and returned immediately to the fort; as this project failed.18 We returned down the river to Lake Huron, under orders for Fort 18 This was July 25, 1813. General Green Clay was then in command. 363
Page 364
76 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER^ SERVICE St. Dresky.19 We stopped at different places and went on shore, to see if we could obtain any information respecting the Enemy. At one place we discovered houses and plantations, But no inhabi- tants; but in one of the dwellings we found a dead body, partly consumed; we supposed this place had been depopulated by the In- dians. At another place I and some of my comrades went some way into the woods, where I had a narrow escape from a rattle- snake. I did not see it at first. It was of great length and size. When I saw it I drew back (as) it appeared to be about to spring upon me; when one of my comrades shot it. We took it with us and the Indians begged it of us, saying that it was between nine and ten years old, and that some part of it would cure the bite of another. We proceeded and went up the river St. Dresky, and disem- barked on the beach. The following morning we marched for the fort. The Indians met with a man and the officers tried him very much to give some information respecting the enemy. He acted as though he was deaf and dumb, so that no information could be gained from him, neither by words nor signs. The gun- boats went up the river, near to the fort, and we formed on a piece of ground at no great distance from it. The enemy commenced a fire upon the boats and us. The fire was returned from the boats. General Proctor sent Major Chambers with a flag of truce, and demanded the surrender of the fort, or he would blow them up. He was led into the fort blindfolded, and received an answer from the American general, for the commandant, that he would not sur- render and that he was ready to be blown to hell at any minute. We then took up a position near the fort, where we were sheltered from their fire; and in the night made platforms for our guns. The following morning it was determined to storm. Our force was divided, and each party received orders which part of the fort to 19 Lower Sandusky, now Fremont, Ohio. The post was Fort Stephenson; the commander, Major George Croghan, 17th Infantry. 364
Page 365
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 77 attack. It was thought at the distance we were at, that it would be possible to scale the fence. We advanced in file and formed near the ditch and found it much deeper than we had expected, and the fence much higher. The light company, and part of a battalion company were all that reached the works; the others were beaten back. When the enemy found that the others had retreated, their main force was directed against us, and a dreadful scene ensued. Our men, generally, were determined, (but) I saw one of them turn round. His comrade observed it and said, if he did not face fire he would run his bayonet through him. We were exposed to the enemy's fire. My front-rank man, the sergeant on my right, Major Short20 and Lieutenant Gordon, were killed. My left-hand man received six balls but recovered from his wounds. We that remained alive laid under the bank of the outer entrench- ment. The officers and men in the inner ditch were exposed to a swivel gun,21 and most of them were killed or wounded. I saw one of them come from thence into the ditch where I was, wounded in his mouth and the piece of lead lodged in it. We remained in the ditch until night, when we received orders to retreat. Before this I went down the ditch, amongst vmy dead and wounded com- rades, to try to get some ammunition, as mine was expended. I said to one of my comrades, " Bill, how bee'st?" He said to me, " There is one of the Americans keeps firing upon us, out of one of those loop-holes." I asked him to tell me out of which of the holes he was firing, and I would have a shot at him. He told me, and I fired. I had scarcely fired when I saw my comrade fall back wounded. I stepped to him and said, "Bill, what's the matter?" He replied " They have shot me again." By this time the enemy 20 William Charles Shortt and J. G. Gordon. They were buried at a point now near the N. E. corner of High and Market Streets, Fremont. A piece of Shortt's sword-scabbard was found there in 1850, and is now owned by Mr. Sardis Birchard (Lossing). 21 An iron six-pounder, still preserved at Fremont, and called Good Bess. 365
Page 366
78 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE Had nearly ceased firing, and those of the men who could were get- ting out of the ditch as quickly as possible. I do not believe there was either a commissioned or non-commissioned officer left in it, and our poor wounded men groaning and crying, saying " Now we have done the best we could, you are all going to leave us." This the American officer heard from the fort, and said, "I know your men are going away, but never mind, my brave fellows, when they are gone I will come out and take you in and use you well." I said to him, "Why don't you come out now, and we will fight you five to one." He answered, "No, I shall not, but when you are gone I shall come out and clear the ditch." I then said to one of my comrades, " Now I shall start," and ascended the works. Just as I had got to the top the flash of the guns caught my eye; I im- mediately fell on my, face, when a shower of shot fell near me. I arose and hastened to one of our batteries, when jumping into it General Proctor said to me, " Where are all the rest of the men?" I said to him, " I don't think there are any more to come; they are all killed or wounded." He added, weeping, "Good God, what shall I do about the men?" This was in September, 1813.22 We were then ordered to march to the boats. We went on board and proceeded down the river for Malden. Before we came to the lake we stopped and went ashore. Here one of my comrades, who was badly wounded, wanted to comply with nature's necessity, and asked me to carry him into the wood for that purpose. My feelings were so excited on account of the distressed state he was in, that I could not find courage enough, at the moment, to comply with his request; but one of my comrades took him up to carry him to the wood, and he died in his arms. We dug a hole in the beach, and buried him; after which we arrived at Malden. The flank companies were then ordered to Sandwich. This is opposite De- troit. When we took that place, in 1812, a circumstance occurred which I here refer to: 22 A mistake—it was August 1st and 2nd. 366
Page 367
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 79 An inhabitant of Detroit, a farmer who with his family were in comfortable circumstances, having a loom for weaving hi their possession, sent to enquire if there were any weavers amongst us. I and one of my comrades being weavers, went to their house and lent them some assistance in putting the loom to work. They be- haved very kindly to us. I visited them often afterwards, and they continued their kindness to me during our stay there. The mistress suggested to me that if I deserted and went into the States, I should do well. I told her I could not desert my colours, and that I hoped to see old England again. Soon after we came to Sandwich I was one of a party that was sent across the river to Detroit for fuel. While they were getting it on board the boat I asked the sergeant to give me a few minutes' leave, to go and see my old acquaintance. I went to their former residence, but they were not there, the scene was changed. I found them in a cottage, reduced to a state of extreme poverty. The Indians had deprived them of all their property. The master was from home, the mistress said she was glad to see me, but had nothing to give me but a piece of bread. Having five shillings in my pocket, I gave it to her, and have never repented it since. I then took an affectionate leave of her and returned to the party. On recrossing the river with the fuel we were in danger of being sunk, by getting enclosed in a shoal of ice, but we were preserved, we got clear and landed about half a mile down the river. The flank companies were again ordered to Malden. A party from each company were now sent on board to do duty as marines, and the fleet sailed for Lake Huron, to attack the Ameri- can fleet. The action commenced and we could hear the report of the guns and were expecting every hour to hear that our people were victorious; but contrary to our expectations news was brought that they were overpowered by numbers and every vessel taken.23 23 This was Perry's victory on Lake Erie, not Huron, as Byfield has it. 367
Page 368
80 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE Orders were then given to leave Malden and to take the ord- nance and all that we could with us, but first to destroy the works, &c. In a few days' march we came to 24-mile Bush (or Moravian Town24) and were informed that the American general was pur- suing us with three times our number, or more; and instead of us- ing every effort to keep ahead of the enemy until we were re-in- forced, were detained in taking forward the general's baggage, &c. It was said that the Indians were inclined to make a stand and endeavour to defeat the Enemy, in order to keep possession of the upper country. The Americans gained upon us, and the Indians brought in some of their advance (prisoners). A party was sent back to destroy a bridge, in order to check the enemy; while in the act they were surrounded and taken prisoners.25 Thus situated we prepared to meet them in the best manner that we could. The light company and the Indians were placed on the right, to face the Kentucky riflemen.20 We were thus formed, in a wood, when the enemy came within 20 or 30 yards of us and sounded the bugle, to advance and attack. The attack commenced on the right, with the Indians, and very soon became general through the line. After exchanging a few shots our men gave way. I was in the act of retreating, when one of our sergeants exclaimed, "For God's sake, men, stand and fight!" I stood by him and fired one shot, but the line was broken and the men were retreating. I then made my escape farther into the wood, where I met with some of the Indians, who said that they had beaten back the enemy on the right, but that their prophet was killed, and they then retreated. Moravian Town was not far from us, and the Indians wanted to know whether it was in the possession of the enemy or not. They made for this place, placing me in front, 24 The town of the Moravian or Christian Indians, not far from the battle- field. They were mostly of the Delaware tribe. 25 A squad of eleven privates and a lieutenant of the dragoons. 20 This was the battle of the Thames, October 5, 1813. 868
Page 369
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 81 and their interpreter asked me, in case I should hear the voice of any one there, whether I should know it to be an Englishman's or an American's. I said I should. When near the outside of the wood I heard a voice saying, "Come on, my boys," in a dia- lect which I knew to be American. I communicated the same to the interpreter, and finding that we were discovered by the enemy, the Indians turned round and made their way through the woods as fast as possible. I followed after as quickly as I could. After awhile they slackened their pace and I overtook them; we went for- ward until night came on, when the Indians halted and formed around me; they seemed to be holding a consultation, I supposed it was to decide how I should be disposed of. In this solitary place and surrounded by savages, whose cruelties I was somewhat ac- quainted with, I had but little hope at the moment, of ever getting out of the woods. My feelings on this occasion may be more read- ily conceived than expressed. After a short time they went on in Indian file, and I followed until we discovered a light; I was then ordered to go on in front to ascertain what light it was. I found an old Indian and a little boy, the old man being too far advanced in age to go to war. They then came on, had some conversation and stopped for the night. I wanted to gain their friendship if I could, and having some tobacco in my haversack I distributed it amongst them, and then laid down. After passing the night there we proceeded through the woods, and after some time dis- covered some cattle feeding. As we advanced we came to an In- dian camp, and after some conversation between my companions and them, one of the females gave me some victuals and spoke to me in broken English. I understood that she invited me to go with them, that is, with their tribe. I accepted the invitation. The interpreter hearing it, called me aside and asked what I had been saying. I told him. He then told me that if I went with them I should go into the back settlements, and perhaps never come out of the woods again. This caused me to change my mind. I told the interpre- 369
Page 370
82 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE ter that I wanted to find out some road or river, thinking that I should then find my way to some house or place. He then told me that I had better go with him, as he should be in Quebec some time in the following month. The interpreter and three of the Indians then left the others, and I went on with them. We had not travelled far when I ob- served one of the Indians give the interpreter a pair of moccasons for the feet. I then thought that the interpreter had sold me for a pair of shoes, and I showed some reluctance to go forward. He asked me why I did not go on. I said that I should not, without him. He replied, "You are afraid." I answered, "I am not." (I really was afraid, but did not want him to know it.) We pro- ceeded through the woods until the sun had nearly set. I thought we were drawing near some road (so) I mended my pace, and was getting in front of them, when one of the Indians tapped me on the head, and said that if I did not keep further back he would take that off. We went a little farther and picked up a pompion; in a short time after I discovered one of my comrades. This was the best sight I had seen in some time, and my fears and suspicions in a great measure vanished. He had been wandering about, go- ing he knew not where, and no doubt was as glad to see me as I was to see him. Soon after this we came in sight of a public road, and by the roadside we found some flour, some potatoes and a kettle. We returned with the Indians into the wood and cooked it; we made a division of it and found it very refreshing, being so much needed. We stopped in the wood that night; there was a heavy fall of rain, which made it very uncomfortable. The next morning we crossed the road and went into the woods on the other side; we forded several rivers, and in the evening came to an Indian village. We were invited to one of the huts, and the head of the family was very kind; he killed a pig and dressed it, boiled some Indian corn and made soup, and entertained the whole of us in a very friendly manner. We slept there that night, and in the morn- 370
Page 371
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER' S SERVICE 83 ing I and my companion took leave of the old man and our travel- ing companions, who directed us towards Oxford. The same day we fell in with a party of our men, who had charge of the general's baggage. We stopped with them that night; in the morning I found that they were making too free with what they had in charge. I was afraid of the consequences and said to my comrade, "Let us push forward," but he was inclined to stay, and I went on without him. I was ill-prepared for marching, my shoes being entirely worn out; but before night I fell in with a large party of our men who had escaped, under the command of Captain Bullock,27 of the grenadier company. He enquired how I had escaped. I related to him the particulars of what I had passed through. This party proceeded to Oxford, and from thence to the Cross Roads, where we remained several months. From thence we marched to Burlington Heights barracks, and after a few days, to Fort George, the Americans having left it. Our flank companies, with the 100th regiment, were ordered to at- tack Fort Niagara. The 100th regiment was at Queen's Town. We marched to that place and joined them, and from thence crossed the river St. Lawrence and landed about four or five miles above Niagara. Generals Drummond28 and Ryal29 were with us. Ar- rangements being made, we moved off for the fort; the 100th regi- ment was in front. On the way we surprised a guard at Young's Town; we took them prisoners and obtained the countersign, but a man made a signal, by discharging a rocket, we supposed to alarm the fort; it had no effect, and the man was killed. We advanced quietly, and a party under the command of a sergeant went in front. When he came near the outer sentry, at the entrance to the fort, he was challenged. He gave the countersign, seized the sentinel and threatened him with immediate death if he made any 27 Captain Richard Bullock, of the 41st. 28 Sir Gordon Drummond. "General Sir Phineas Riall (1772-1854.) 371
Page 372
84 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE noise. He then proceeded to the gate and was challenged by the sentry inside. He gave the countersign and gained admittance, but the sentry cried out, " The British—turn out the guard!" Our force was fully prepared, and in a very short time we had posses- sion of the fort, with very little loss—December 19th, 1813. The 100th regiment was left in the fort, and we were ordered to Lewis Town, which place was occupied by a small party of the enemy, but before we got there they had quitted the station, leaving one piece of ordnance. Here we were re-inforced by a party of the 1st (Royals) from Queen's Town; we were then ordered for Slustra.30 We were a little alarmed in the evening before we started; I was on sentry, and heard something like the movement of troops. It proved to be a party of Indians, bringing two men belonging to the Royals, who they thought were about to desert. We proceeded the same night, for Slustra (I was on the advance, with a sergeant's party) and when within about one mile and a half of it we fell in with an American guard. The sentinel chal- lenged, and attempted to fire, but his piece missed fire. We forced our way into the guard-room, where they were all in confusion; I seized one of them in a sailor's dress, and threatened to kill him if he made any resistance. We made eight of them prisoners, the others escaped. Our main force went on, and I, with some others, followed with the prisoners. We had not marched far before we came to two roads; we took the wrong one. Soon after we heard some person coming behind. Not having a non-commissioned of- ficer with us, I said to one of my comrades, "Go back, there is somebody coming," but he refused. I then said, "Take care of the prisoners, and I will go back." I had not gone far when I saw a man; I challenged and he answered, "A friend." I asked him what he belonged to—he said, "The Americans." I ordered him to stand fast, or I would blow his brains out. He replied, "I am a prisoner." I took hold of him. He then said, "You are one of the men who came into the house just now. One of 30 Schlosser. 372
Page 373
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 85 you has got my boots; I am the officer of the guard." I told him that I had a pair of shoes in my knapsack, and that he might have them if he would. He said that if he put them on his feet would be frost-bitten—December 22nd, 1813. I offered him some rum. He said he did not expect to be so treated if he was taken a pris- oner, and wept, begging that I would not let him fall into the hands of the Indians. I told him that if he behaved himself no one should hurt him. We now halted, thinking to remain until daylight, in order to ascertain the right road; we again heard some one coming. 1 went back some distance and challenged. I was answered, "A friend." I asked him what he belonged to; he replied "The British." I asked him what regiment he belonged to; he replied, " The militia." Not being satisfied with his answers, I drew near to him and took his arms and ammunition from him. A short time after we saw another man, with polished arms, by which I knew that he must be one of our men. I said to him, "You villain, what business have you got here?" He asked me who I was, and said he was as good a soldier as I was, and challenged me to fight. One of our men (a jocular fellow) said to him, "You do not know who you are talking to, he is an officer and will have you shot to-mor- row." I had a beaver hat on, and a silk handkerchief round my neck (I had lost my cap in the tussle at the guard-room, and found the hat; and was allowed to wear a handkerchief, on account of the wound in my neck). From this the fellow thought that there was some truth in what was said, and begged that I would not report him; but before daylight he thought proper to depart. He be- longed to the Royals. When the morning came, we proceeded and soon came into the right road. We found that our men had got possession of Slustra, which was a mill and a place for public stores. The guard made some resistance, and the officer commanding it was killed. 373
Page 374
86 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE I saw him lying dead and asked the officer (my prisoner) if he knew him. He said that he was a dear friend of his, wept over him, and said that he had been on parole three times. I then gave, up the prisoners, and was put on guard to prevent the men from making free with the liquors &c. in the stores. Orders were then given to destroy the stores, and to burn the buildings; some of the pro- visions were thrown into the river. When this work of destruction was completed we returned to Lewis Town. Two circumstances happened here of a very serious nature. One of our men went into, the woods and was murdered by an Indian. We manifested much displeasure respecting it. The tribe, to make an atonement for this act, caused the murderer to be killed, and exposed in the public road for some days. We were ordered under arms one night, when one of our men by his carelessness caused his piece to explode, and the contents passed through -his right-hand man, and killed him. From Lewis Town we crossed the river for Queen's Town— December 22nd, 1813. We marched up the lines, to cross over again in order to attack Black Rock, and were re-inforced on the way by men from the Royals and 8th regiment. Our force was then divided. The Royals went above Fort Erie, to cross the river above Black Rock; the remainder was to cross below Fort Erie, so as to land below Black Rock. Fort Erie is nearly oppo- site Black Rock, on the opposite side of the river. We effected our landing according to orders. The first that landed surprised a guard commanded by a Major Cotton30" and took them prisoners. The line was then formed and (we) had orders to remain still un- til morning, if nothing happened and then to advance, on the firing of a gun. We had not been there long when a person came mounted, within 20 yards of our line, and exclaimed, "Damn you, Major Cotton, where are you, and the British landing?" General Ryal, being not far from him said, "I pray, Sir, who are you?" 30a Probably Salmon C. Cotton, captain 26th Infantry. 87*
Page 375
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 87 The other replied by asking the same question. The former an- swered, "I am a British general," and challenged him. The other said, " I am an American general." General Ryal then said, " If you are a man and a soldier, stand before me." He instantly turned his horse and rode off in great haste. The Royals, in cross- ing the river, were carried by the violence of the stream so far down the river as to be exposed to the enemy's batteries, and suffered much, but they effected a landing. Some time after this the Amer- icans came out of the town, and formed. We laid close and quiet according to order, and heard the American general say, "Make ready, present, blaze." Their shot took no effect upon us. We arose, returned the fire, and lay down again. As they did not fire again we concluded that they had retreated. We remained in our position until the gun fired, when we faced to the right, and having gained some ground to the right, turned off the left by sections, and advanced until we came near to the entrance of the town, where we formed the line on the first sec- tion. They fired upon us as we were forming and we returned it as fast as the sections came into line. The enemy soon began to give way. There was a heavy fire kept up from a large building. A party of our men advanced, and stopped the firing by taking pos- session of the building. We now discovered that the Royals were exposed to their batteries, being carried further down the river than was intended. We then directed our fire upon the men that were working the battery guns. About this time the enemy sent a party into the wood, to flank us on the left; but they were re- ceived by a party of our Indians stationed there for that purpose, and were beaten back with loss. They made an attempt to turn one of their battery guns upon us, but could not succeed. As many of the Royals as survived, about this time effected a landing. We now pressed the enemy very closely, and they began to retreat for Buffaloe. We got possession of Black Rock and the batteries, and pursued them to Buffaloe. I saw one of the Royals, with 375
Page 376
88 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE blood flowing very freely from his face; I said to him, "You are wounded, you had better go back." He replied, "No, lad, I'll pay some of them first." The enemy made but a short stay at BufFaloe. They gave us a shot from a mounted gun, and retreated. We took possession of the place, being apprehensive that the enemy would get re-inforcements and return upon us. Orders were given to destroy both places by burning; no dwelling was to be spared except one, where the dead body of a child laid, who had been shot in the street; this was in compassion towards the sorrowful mother. We stopped until the evening, refreshing ourselves and burying the dead, and then recrossed the river and marched down the lines to Fort George. At this place my brother met with an accident which cost him his life. When our company was at this place before the taking of Detroit, we were 110 strong, but now reduced to 15 men only fit for duty; some of them had been wounded, myself for one. The other part of the company, both officers, non-commissioned officers and privates, were either killed, wounded or taken prisoners. We marched from Fort George to York, where the second battalion joined us, July 25th, 1814. Our company, now filled up, was ordered, under the command of Captain Glue,30 to Point Frederick, Kingston, supposing that the Americans would cross from Sacket's Harbour, and attack it. We remained here until the weather broke up, and then re- turned to York again. About this time, the man who messed the officers complained that owing to the high price of provisions he could not continue to do it, without permission to keep a canteen, and to be allowed a man to assist him. Permission being granted, he requested to have me; as I belonged to the light company he was at first denied, but it was afterwards granted, with an order that whenever the com- 30 John Berry Glew. 376
Page 377
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 89 pany was wanted for any particular duty I was to attend. While at York I went into the hospital to see the wounded. One of the 8th regiment, who had lost a leg, said, "That's the man that saved my life," and related how, saying that when he was knocked down I had pulled him behind a tree, to shelter him from the enemy's fire. I recalled the circumstance; he was very kind to me during our stay together. Our regiment now received orders for Fort Niagara, to relieve the 100th regiment. While here we were expecting the enemy, and were often under arms all night and the guns all loaded, to re- ceive them if they attempted to storm. The light company was repeatedly sent across the river to Fort George as there was a force of the enemy in that quarter. The enemy made their appear- ance, but the forts were opened upon them and they went back. The flank companies were then ordered to Lewis Town, informa- tion having been received that the enemy were in that neighbour- hood. A field-piece accompanied us, and the light company was extended into the wood, on the side of the road, to prevent us from being surprised from thence. We found much obstruction, the enemy having blocked the way with a large quantity of brushwood. When we came near Lewis Town we got sight of a party of the enemy, encamped. When they saw us they went off in quick time and left the camp, and their provisions partly dressed. We fol- lowed them some distance, but they did not stop to face us and we returned. At this time81 the British on the other side of the river were engaged with the enemy, at Lundie's Lane. We could hear the report of their great guns. Our captain informed us that he had received orders to cross the river to assist them; and the grena- diers, with the field-piece, were to return to Niagara. We crossed and landed at Queen's Town. It was at this place that the much- lamented veteran, General Brock, received his death wound by a 31 July 25, 1814. 377
Page 378
90 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE shot from an American rifleman. We moved from this place in quick time, for about seven miles, and waited for orders near Lun- die's Lane. A noggin of rum was given to each man. We then moved on for the field of action. We had a guide with us, and when we came near the field our captain was called upon by name, in a loud voice, to form on the left of the speaker. It being night we could not discover what regiment it was. The guide positively asserted that it was one of the enemy. Our bugle then sounded, for the company to drop. A volley was then fired upon us which killed two corporals and wounded a sergeant and several of the men. The company then arose, fired and charged. The enemy quitted their position; we followed and took three field-pieces. In the morning we collected the wounded and received orders to burn the dead. One of the Indians persisted on throwing one of the wounded Americans on the fire while living, although prevented several times; one of our men shot him and he was burned himself. At this fight General Ryal was wounded, and himself and his or- derly (one of the 19th dragoons) were taken prisoners. We were now ordered to join the regiment at Niagara; but before we marched General Drummond personally thanked us for our conduct in the fight. The whole of the army were thanked in public orders, namely the Royals, 8th, 49th, 89th and 103d regiments. The 89th suffered severely in this engagement. We joined our regiment at Niagara, and in a short time part of the regiment, including the light company, was ordered to cross the river to Fort George, and from thence towards Fort Erie. In going up the lines we fell in with our main force. We were ex- pecting to storm Fort Erie, when orders were given for the 41st and part of the 104th, with a rocket party under the command of Captain Perry, to cross the river below Black Rock. While on the water we heard firing in the direction of Black Rock. We landed32 32 August 3, 1814. 878
Page 379
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER^ SERVICE 91 and advanced towards it. When we were here last there was a bridge between us and the town, over a small creek, but the enemy had destroyed it, and on the inner bank they had thrown up breast- works. They commenced firing upon us, we advanced, thinking to charge, when we discovered that the bridge was gone. We instantly retreated, and remained until daylight, when a party was ordered to erect a temporary bridge across the creek, and our com- pany and the rocket company were to cover them. We stood some time and some of our shot took effect. We saw one of the enemy fall, who was daring enough to get upon their works. About this time I received a musket ball through my left arm, below the el- bow. I went into the rear. One of my comrades, seeing that I was badly wounded, cut my belts from me and let them drop. I walked to the doctor, and desired him to take my arm off. He said it might be cured without it, and. ordered me down to a boat, saying that the wounded men were to cross the river and they (the doctors) would soon follow. The party failed in erecting the bridge, and retreated with loss. When on the other side of the river, the wounded were put into a house and the doctors soon came. They examined my arm, and made preparations for ampu- tation; but after a further consultation they told me that although I was rendered unfit for further service, yet if the wound could be healed it would be better for my hand to remain on, if it was not much use to me, and that it had better be first tried. I was then sent to my regiment at Niagara. After a few days our doctor informed me that my arm must be taken off, as mortification had taken place. I consented, and asked one of my comrades who had lately gone through a like oper- ation: "Bill, how is it to have the arm taken off?" He replied, "Thee woo't know, when it's done." They prepared to blind me, and had men to hold me, but I told them there was no need of that. The operation was tedious and painful, but I was enabled 379
Page 380
92 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER's SERVICE to bear it pretty well. I had it dressed, and went to bed. They brought me some mulled wine and I drank it. I was then informed that the orderly had thrown my hand to the dung heap. I arose, went to him, and felt a disposition to strike him. My hand was taken up and a few boards nailed together for a coffin, my hand was put into it and buried on the ramparts. The stump of my arm soon healed, and three days * after I was able to play a game of fives for a quart of rum; but before I left the fort a circumstance hap- pened which I here relate. There was a sentry posted near the wood to prevent any of the men entering it, and we had to go near the sentry for water. One of the artillerymen went on pretence of fetching some water, and when the sentry's back was turned towards him he started into the wood for the purpose of deserting, and the sentry (one of the 41st) shot him. The ball entered his body and the wound proved mortal; he was brought into the bar- racks. His captain came into the barracks to see him. The dying man charged him with being the cause of what had happened. The captain left the room, and he died shortly after. My comrades, and the messman whom I had been serving, out of kindness and respect to me made a subscription of several pounds and gave it to me. As soon as the wounded men were somewhat recovered they were ordered from the different regiments to go on board the boats used on the river, to go to Kingston, and in going down the river we went on shore by night. On board the boat I was in was a young man, a sailor, who had lost one of his arms near the shoulder. I felt a kind regard to- wards him, and we became comrades. He was going down the country to be cook on board a King's ship, the St. Lawrence, 110 guns; he shared with me the gratuity my friends had bestowed upon me. From Kingston we proceeded to Montreal, and from thence to Quebec. One evening after going ashore, I took a walk * Probably a misprint for "weeks." 380
Page 381
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 93 alone a little way into the country and came near a large neat-look- ing house, and seeing a lad I asked who lived there; he replied, "A three-handed man." I said "That's the very man that I want to see, as I have but one hand; if he should be disposed to give me one of his, we shall have two apiece!" The lad said that by a "three-handed man " they meant that he was wealthy. After go- ing a little farther I went into a farmhouse the inhabitants of which behaved very kindly to me, and the mistress made up a bed for me for the night. When I came to Quebec I met with some of my old comrades who had been wounded and taken prisoners. I was ex- tremely glad to see them. They related the scenes and hardships they had passed through, and one of them said he was left amongst the dead (as) his wounds were considered incurable; but he begged them to attend to him for he thought he should recover. After remaining in that state four days before anything was done for him, they paid some attention to him. He was then in a great measure recovered, but not well. General Proctor being in Quebec I waited on him and asked him for a certificate for the capture of Detroit, which he freely gave me; and told me that he would give me such a recommendation that I need not fear but that a sufficient provision would be made for me. He asked me the particulars of the battle at Moravian Town. I told him all the particulars I knew. He further said that he was going to Montreal, and ordered me to call on him before he went or before he embarked for England. Some time after a woman told me that the general wanted me. I attended to the order immediately, but the woman had delayed delivering the message. The general was gone and I did not see him, neither have I had the satisfaction of seeing either of my offi- cers since, although I have made many enquiries. We now had orders to go on board the Phoenix transport and sailed for England. We had a tolerably good passage, but was a little alarmed one night, by a sudden squall of wind. The sails backed and we were near foundering, but in a short time the vessel 381
Page 382
94 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER^ SERVICE righted and all was well. We landed in the Isle of Wight, and marched into Newport barracks December, 1814. After examination we were sent to Chatham by water. Hav- ing been passed by the inspecting officer there I was sent to Chelsea. I appeared before the board and was ordered nine pence per day, pension. My feelings were much excited that day} on learning that our bugle-horn man, who was a young soldier, who had been but in one action and had lost a forearm, about the same length as mine, was rewarded with one shilling per day. I must say that I felt very much dissatisfied with nine pence, and I made applications at dif- ferent times to the Honourable Commissioners of Chelsea Hos- pital, to augment my pension, but without success. Hearing of a field-officer, residing in the neighbourhood of the town where I live, and that he was a soldier's friend, I made bold to wait upon him, and requested that he would be pleased to hear my case. He kindly condescended to comply with my request, and after hearing my statement he was of opinion that I was not remunerated for my services and loss. He very kindly said he would represent my case; and it was not merely a promise, he persevered until he had caused an addition to be made to my pension, of three pence per day. For which I very kindly thank him, and shall be ever bound gratefully to acknowledge his kindness to me. Being deprived of my trade in consequence of losing my arm in the service and having received several very severe wounds, it was with great difficulty I could support my wife and children in a respectable manner, my pension at that time being only ninepence per day. One night I dreamt that I was working at my trade; and on awaking I related my dream to my wife and told her I could weave. She said, "Go to sleep, there was never such a thing known as a person having but one arm, to weave "; and on going to sleep a second time, I had the form of an instrument revealed to me, which 382
Page 383
A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER'S SERVICE 95 would enable me to work at my trade. I awoke my wife and told her of the circumstance. I went to a blacksmith of the name of Court, and having drawn a design for him on a board, he made an instrument for me, similar to the pattern with the exception of some little alteration, which I thought was for the best, but which, on trial, I was obliged to alter to the shape I saw in my dream; and I am happy to say that I have been enabled to labour for my family and keep them comfortably, for nearly twenty years, in the employ of Edward Cooper, Esq., clothier, Staverton Works, near Brad- ford, Wilts. The above is a true and correct account, as given by Shadrach'Byfield, I before me. Edward Cooper. January 1st, 1840. I cannot but remark that it is evident in the foregoing rela- tion that a kind Providence has preserved my life through the many dangers to which I have been exposed, and brought me back to my native home. And for what purpose? In order to manifest a further display of his goodness and mercy towards me, in convinc- ing that I was a sinner and in high rebellion against Him who is my best friend and benefactor. A conviction of this has caused me to lay down my arms of rebellion, to sue for mercy, and to sub- mit to his righteous sceptre. For the last twenty years I have been fighting under the banner of a Captain who has conquered every enemy and defeated every foe, to my immortal interest. Al- though I have to contend with a threefold enemy, namely the world, the flesh and the devil, and am the subject of many imperfections and rank myself among the vilest of the vile, yet I hope that my soul is founded on the Rock of Ages, against which the powers of hell shall never prevail. And when I shall have to encounter 383
Page 384
96 A NARRATIVE OF A LIGHT COMPANY SOLDIER S SERVICE the last enemy, Death, although he will gain a victory over my mortal part, yet I hope that my immortal soul will be enabled to shout "Victory " through the blood of the Lamb; and be admitted into the society of the blessed, where I shall be beyond the gun-shot of my enemy and landed safely on the shores of eternal rest; where peace reigns and where war shall be known no more. Where a blessed eternity will be spent in adoration and praise to Him who has redeemed and saved me out of the hands of every enemy. THE END

SSI
This page contains an image.
Page 384
Blank page
Page 384
THE OLD RIP OF THE SHENANDOAH. CAPTAIN WADDELI. (as Rip Van Winkle). "Law! Mr. Pilot, you don't say so! f he w.ar.in Ajnerica over these Eight Months? Dear! dear! who'd ever a' thought it!" Harper-s Weekly, Dec. g, 1865.
This page contains an image.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
Section
Page 384
THE SHENANDOAH, bR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER. BY CORNELIUS E. HUNT. (one of her officers). NEW YORK G. W. CARLETON & CO. LONDON: S. LOW, SON, & CO. 1867 NEW YORK Reprinted WILLIAM ABBATT (Being Extra No. 12 of The Magazine of History with Notes and Queries.) 1910
Page 384
Blank page
Page 384
Facsimile of the originil THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER. R CORNELIUS E. HUNT, (ONE OF BEB OFFICEE3), NEW YORK: G. W. CARLETON, & CO. PUBLISHERS. LONDON: S. LOW. SON, & CO. MDCCCLZm.
Page 384
Blank page
Page 385
EDITOR'S PREFACE The cruise of the Shenandoah is one of the scarce items of its day. Only two copies have come to our notice in seven years, and as the stories of the Aldbama-Kearsage, and "Captain Roberts'" Never Caught have proven among the most popular of our "Extras," no doubt this one will be almost or quite as interesting to our readers; particularly as it has never before been reprinted since its original appearance in 1867. Its author, a Virginian, is described as an "acting-master's mate," in Scharf's History of the Confederate Navy, but we have no further information of him. EDITOR. 385
Page 386
Blank page
Page 387
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER CHAPTER I FROM LONDON TO IMADEIRA THE Southern Confederacy exists only in the past. The gallant armies which so long resisted the overpowering odds with which they had to contend, are broken and scattered, and for the most part have returned to the pur- suits of peace; its Chief languishes a prisoner bf State in',a military fortress, and its little navy has ceased to inspire with terror the people of the United States "who go down to the sea in ships, and do business in the great waters." It came to1 pass that I was one of the few who witnessed the last descending glory of this attempted Republic, projected by men who considered that the only true and natural foundation of society was "the wants and fears of individuals," but which was decided adversely to their interpretation of that natural law, by the God of battles. What I may have to relate in the succeeding pages is simply the plain, unvarnished narrative—a transcript of the log, if you please—of a sailor, who entered the service of the Confederate States, because he was "to the manor born,1"1 and felt in honor bound to follow the fortunes of his State, and who was among the last to turn sorrowfully away from ,a cause which had no longer a flag to defend, or a Government to save its adherents on the seas from the stigma of piracy. On Saturday, the 7th of October 1864, the English steamer Sea King left her moorings in London, hjaving cleared for Bombay 887
Page 388
8 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDEBATE CRUISER or any other port in the East Indies, on a voyage not to exceed two years. She was a long, rakish vessel of seven hundred and ninety tons register, with an auxiliary engine of two hundred and twenty nominal horse-power, with which she was capaflble of steam- ing ten knots an hour. She was the handiwork of Stevens and Son, the celebrated builders on the river Clyde, in Scotland, and had been launched the preceding year, after which she had made one voyage to New Zealand as a transport for British troops. On this, her first voyage, she proved herself one of the fastest sailers afloat, her log showing at times over three hundred and twenty miles in twenty-four hours. Such a vessel, with such a prestige, was not likely to escape the notice of the Confederate agents in England, who were on the lookout for suitable craft for privateering purposes, and quietly, so quietly in fact, that except those immediately connected with the transaction, no one was aware of it, this splendid ship was sold to the Confederacy, and! lay in the basin taking in coal and provisions sufficient for a twelve months' cruise, without awakening a suspicion in official circles, or even in the mind of the public as to her ultimate destination, or the im- portant part she was to play in the great drama of the American civil war. When everything was arranged, the Sea King hauled out of the basin, and proceeded to sea under the command of Captain Corbet, an English ship-master, and flying the English flag. She carried two twelve pounders, such as are usually mounted upon an East Indiaman of her size, and, in brief, so well had the whole affair been managed, that there was nothing in her departure to excite even passing attention. It was only an ordinary vessel setting sail upon an ordinary voyage. She was scarcely clear of the ground, however, when a tele- gram was flashed to Liverpool, advising the Confederate agent at that port, that the first part of the programme had been accurately 888
Page 389
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 9 performed, and about eight o'clock the same evening, a mysterious individual was flitting from place to place in that city, advising cer- tain other persons that the moment they had been so anxiously awaiting for some weeks had arrived; and an hour later, from hotels, boarding-houses, and apartments pretending and unpre- tending, issued forth a score or more of gentlemen, natives of the sunny South, who had staked life and fortune on the hazard of a desperate game, and took their solitary way towards the landing stage where a steam tug was in waiting to convey them on board the steamer Laurel. These persons were the officers of the Confederate cruiser Shenandodh, into which the Sea King was to be transformed a few days later at the Island of Madeira, and the steamer Laurel con- tained her armament and crew, and was to meet her there, although ostensibly bound to Nassau or Havana, with supplies for the Con- federate Government. The Laurel was commanded by Lieutenant Ramsey, and al- though a Confederate vessel, she flew the English flag. Our baggage had all been previously sent on board packed in dry-goods boxes marked with a diamond and a number above it, by which each officer was known, and at the moment of departure every one was furnished with a receipt, of which the following, ex- cept the name (in all cases fictitious) is a copy. Received from Mr. Elias Smith, thirty-two pounds, for his passage in the cabin of Steamer Laurel, from this port to Havana. £32. HENBY LAFONK. It was a chilly October evening with a heavy mist rendering everything half invisible at a distance of a dozen paces, when after receiving the above document, I sallied forth from my Liverpool lodgings, conscious that at last! I was setting out upon the adven- turous career for which I had so long been preparing. 389
Page 390
10 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER No one unless he has stood in a similar place can appreciate the crowd of emotions that whirled through my mind. I was about to join, clandestinely, a vessel commissioned by a government still in embryo, but which I had sworn to support, to cruise against the commerce of another Government which still claimed me as its liege subject. If the cause I upheld was successful, there was wealth, fame, and glory, to be earned; if it failed, a felon's doom impended over me and my associates; but I was too young and hopeful to long contemplate the dark side of the case; the ship I was to join was afloat; the ocean was before us, and, sailor-like, I was content to put my trust in Providence, Neptune, and the Southern Confederacy. It was curious, too, as I plodded my solitary way down the wet, slippery street, to see other men accoutred like myself, and bound as I well knew upon the same mission, without venturing to exchange with them a word of greeting, but the injunctions of secrecy were peremptory and too much was at stake for orders to be lightly disregarded. We were obliged to be thus secret in our movements, to avoid being detected by some of the numerous spies employed by the United States Consul at Liverpool, to watch the movements of the Confederates in that city, and prevent if possible the shipment of munitions of war or the fitting out of vessels in the Southern in- terest; consequently the Laurel's passengers affected to be entire strangers to each other and avoided all appearance of concert of action until they were safe on board. This was accomplished before midnight, and having shown our receipts, we were conducted to our state-rooms and berths, and at 4 a. m., proceeded to sea under steam. After passing Holyhead and getting fairly outside, all re- straint was thrown off, and we warmly congratulated Captain Ramsey upon the admirable manner in which he had succeeded in 890
Page 391
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 11 eluding the lynx eyes of Uncle Sam's men, and getting to sea with the armament to equip, and the officers to take charge of, our new cruiser. It was, upon the whole, a merry company that assembled in the cabins of the Laurel that memorable Sunday morning. There were some faces upon which the shadow of parting from loved ones still lingered, and some heavy hearts, I doubt not, were concealed under a gay exterior, but there was so much that was alluring in the wild romance of the life before us, such a wide range for hope, so many probabilities in our favor, that care, sorrow, and anxiety drifted pretty rapidly to leeward, and with the first splicing of the main brace disappeared. Among our passengers were several old Confederate States navy officers, who had served on board the Sumter, Alabama, and Georgia, and of course they had much to tell us of their experience, and our voyage was enlivened iby many a yarn, such as none but an old cruiser can spin, and with excellent accommodations, a well- appointed table, and other creature comforts unnecessary to specify more particularly, we succeeded in enjoying ourselves to the ut- most. On the morning of the sixth day out from Liverpool, we sighted the island of Madeira, and before noon dropped anchor in the harbor of Funchal. CHAPTER II FROM MADEIRA TO THE "LINE: ATER circumnavigating the globe, I have no hesitation in saying that Funchal is one of the most beautiful and salubrious places it was ever my good fortune to visit, although my opportunities for observation were limited to spy-glass explorations, as we dared not leave the vessel for fear of awakening suspicion as to our true character. 391 • -'
Page 392
12 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER The city has several buildings of considerable architectural pretensions. One in particular, of which we had a fine view from the harbor, is known as Mount Church, and occupies the summit of a bold bluff several thousand feet above the level of the sea, from which its two tall, white towers stand out in bold relief against this almost cloudless sky. The church is reached by a road that zigzags up the bluff a distance of nearly four miles,—a by no means easy pedestrian excursion, and is generally performed on horse- back, but the return trip to town is usually made upon sleds, at the invigorating rate of some twenty miles an hour. To a native of the Northern States this would be refreshingly (suggestive of the boyish pastime of coasting; and some idea of the steepness of the declivity may be gathered by the rate of speed at which, as 1 have stated, the Madeira sleds glide down the rocky pathway, which is paved with Smooth, round stone. Among the other public edifices, I may mention the Blind Asylum, where some exquisite artificial flowers are manufactured from feathers, by the young girls, its inmates, and also baskets of every shape and description, pretty ornamental things in their way, which are disposed of to the ships visiting the port, for the benefit of the Institution. The fortress commanding the harbor has been hewn out of the natural rock, and is a most formidable structure, a sort of pocket edition of Gibraltar, in fact, and, thoroughly armed and garrisoned, would be an ugly place to carry by assault. After remaining at anchor for two days we began to feel some uneasiness in regard to the Sea King, as sufficient time had elapsed to enable her to make the run, but we were not fated to be kept long in suspense. On the evening of the third day the absentee made her appearance and commenced signalling, but as it was contrary to rules to leave the harbor after dark, we perforce remained where S92
Page 393
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 18 we were until morning, when, having received permission from the authorities on shore, we stood out to meet her. Although there was a fresh breeze blowing at the tune, we had a full head of steam on, and as we neared her, we signalled her to round the Desertas, a barren rocky island, lying near Madeira, and proceeded on towards the place of rendezvous, the Sea King fol- lowing in our wake. In about three hours we succeeded in rounding the island, and had the good fortune to find an excellent place for discharging our armament and ammunition, from the Laurel to her consort. Every- thing was auspicious for the work before us. Scarce a breath of air coquetted with the idle sails, and the ocean around us was as smooth as a mill-pond. But moments were precious; the power against which we were about to commence hostilities was active and vigilant; its iron-clad floating fortresses ploughed the sea in every direction, and some such unwelcome visitor might disturb us at our work at any moment; consequently all felt the necessity of rapidly discharging the important duty that devolved upon us. Tackles were at once got aloft on both vessels, and we com- menced operations by first transferring from the Laurel to the Sea King the heavy guns. This was the most difficult part of our labor; indeed the rest was comparatively easy. Both officers and men worked together, and as I have seldom seen men work before, and a number of Portuguese fishermen, inhabitants of the island of Desertas, rendered as essential assistance, for which they received our gratitude as well as a more substantial remuneration. At the expiration of thirty-six hours of wild excitement and unremitting toil, the transfer was effected, and the munitions of war, clothing, and stores with which the Laurel had been laden, were piled in utter confusion on the decks and in the hold of the Sea King, which was to bear that name no more. 393
Page 394
14 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER The officers and men of both vessels were then summoned to the quarter deck of the latter, where they were informed, some of them for the first time, that she was to resign her peaceful character as well as her name, and to be transformed into a Confederate cruiser. Captain James I. Waddell then appeared, dressed in the uni- form of the Confederate States navy, and delivered a brief but impressive address, stating that the object of the proposed cruise was to prey upon the commerce of the Government with which we were at war, thus rendering what service we could to our unfor- tunate country, and concluded by announcing that all who chose to join the ship in her new character, would receive fifteen pounds bounty, and be entitled to from four to seven pounds per month wages, according to their capabilities. Captain Waddell's address was received with but little en- thusiasm from the majority of those who listened to him, although, undoubtedly the greater part sympathized with our cause. But out of eighty, twenty-three only cast in their lots with the new cruiser, which then hoisted the Confederate flag, and was formally commissioned as the Confederate States' steamer Shenandoah. The moment of parting had come. Those who were to return in the Laurel went over the side, gave us three hearty cheers, and wished us all the success which they declined to help achieve; and we, who were to remain and follow the fortunes of the Shenandoah through weal or woe, turned to with a will, hove up our ponderous anchor from its muddy bed, and stood out to sea under steam, trusting to the God of nations and a good breeze for the safety, which, in our present situation, could only come to us from such sources. The Shenandoah was a full rigged ship, two hundred and twenty feet in length, and thirty-five feet beam, with iron masts and lower yards. She carried royal studding sails, and was rigged 894
Page 395
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 15 with Cunningham's patent reefing topsails, and under sail with a fair breeze, with a sufficient crew to work her, we had little to ap- prehend from a chase. But officers and crew only numbered forty- two souls, less than half her regular complement, and consequently, for the time being, we were obliged to mainly depend upon our auxiliary engine, with which, as I have remarked in the preceding chapter, we were capable of steaming about ten knots an hour, a by no means extraordinary rate of speed for a steam cruiser. Such were the auspices under which we commenced our ad- venturous cruise around the world, in a merchantman commissioned as a man-of-war, but yet to be transformed into one, whose guns lay dismounted on the deck waiting to be remounted, and have port holes cut, through which to protrude their grim muzzles, whose ammunition was piled in promiscuous heaps until a magazine could be constructed to receive it, and manned almost exclusively by officers, few, if any of whom, had ever performed a day's manual labor, who thus boldly put to sea, trusting to provide themselves with a crew from vessels yet to be captured from the enemy. Confusion worse confounded seemed to reign on board the Shenandoah as we got under way, and shorthanded as we were, it seemed a task little less than Herculean to reduce such chaos to order. But that patience and perseverance will accomplish much, is as true as trite. Every one perfectly understood that if we fell in with a United States steamer as we were then circumstanced, our race was run; and as such an abrupt terminus to our career was the reverse of desirable, every man, from the Captain downward, went resolutely to work, and ere long our combined exertions began to produce palpable results. We left on the 20th of October, and the next day we had mounted two eight-inch shell guns, and one thirty-two pounder Whitworth rifle. At the expiration of another twenty-four hours, two more eight-inch shell guns were in position, and also the mate S95
Page 396
16 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUDJER to our Whitworth rifle. This constituted our battery with the ad- dition of two twelve pounders aft, of which, however, we did not expect to make much use except in bringing ships to. The carpenters also had pierced the sides for the portholes, and things alow and aloft began to look ship-shape. Still, there was much to do in temporarily disposing of the ammunition in a place of safety, and giving the ship a general clearing up. On the morning of the 28th, the lookout aloft reported a sail. In an instant all was excitement. "Where away?" bawled the officer of the deck, as he hurriedly threw his glance around the horizon. "About two points on the lee bow, sir, standing the same as we are." "Can you make her out?" "Aye, aye, sir, a square-rigged vessel. We appear to be rais- ing her fast. I see her better now. A barque with long mast heads, and looks like an American." "Very good. Let me know when she shows her colors." It would be difficult to convey an idea of the interest this brief colloquy occasioned. From every part of the ship swarmed up the little company that composed her crew, and ensconced themselves in the rigging, and wherever there was a favorable point for ob- servation, while spy-glasses passed from hand to hand, and opinions were anxiously interchanged as to what the stranger might prove to be. In the course of an hour we could distinguish the English en- sign flying from her peak, but her appearance was so thoroughly American that we concluded to board her and have a look at her papers. 396
Page 397
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 17 A blank cartridge was fired across her bows, the hint was un- derstood and she hove to, after which an officer was dispatched on board to ascertain her true character. She proved to be the barque Monque, American built, but she had been sold to the English, as many others had been before, for fear of the Confederate cruisers. The captain had his wife and family with him, and they seemed so cosey and contented in their little home on the sea, that I was half glad to find they were really entitled to the protection of the flag they flew, and safe from cap- ture. Satisfied that she was no longer an American vessel, and con- sequently not game for our net, we steamed off to the southward, leaving her to proceed on her voyage, which I trust was successfully accomplished. May she never meet a worse enemy than the Shenandoah proved on that occasion! The following morning the lookout at masthead reported two sails in sight, one on the port beam, the other on the starboard quar- ter; but as yet, we were scarcely in proper condition to take the offensive where any doubt existed as to the character of our an- tagonists. Our number only sufficed to work two of our eight-inch guns, which would leave two thirds of our battery entirely un- manned. So, as the probabilities were that either of the strangers were far stronger numerically, we reluctantly permitted them to proceed on their way unmolested. On the 30th, about nine o'clock in the morning, another sail was reported about three points on the port bow. It proved to be a barque, standing to the southward and westward. We immediately got up steam, and proceeded in chase, and in about two hours, brought her to in the usual manner, by firing a 897
Page 398
18 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER blank cartridge across her bows. As she displayed the American flag from her peak, a boat was lowered, and a prize crew with two officers were sent on board to take charge of her. On reaching the vessel, we informed the Captain that his craft was a prize to the Confederate States of America, and ordered him to get his papers and proceed on board of our ship. He hesitated for a moment and then disappeared down the companion-way, and after a brief absence, returned to the deck with a tin box containing his documents, and in company with one of our officers, went on board the Shenandoah. The Alina was condemned, and it fell to my lot to return with the captain to say "good-by" to his ship, and bring away his cloth- ing, and any other little personal property he might wish to pre- serve. That he felt his misfortune keenly was evident, although he manfully strove to conceal it under a cool, nonchalant exterior. "I tell you what, maty," he said, as we were returning from this, to him, sad errand, "I've a daughter at home that that craft yonder was named for, and it goes against me cursedly to see her destroyed." "Neither myself nor my brother officers have any disposition to do you a personal injury," I answered. "Our orders are to prey upon the commerce of the United States, and in carrying them out, private individuals have to suffer, as the widows and orphans of the South have done and are doing from the invading armies acting under the instructions of your Government." "I know it is only the fortune of war, and I must take my chances with the rest," the captain said resolutely, "but it's d—d hard, and I only hope I shall have an opportunity of returning your polite attentions before this muss is over, that's all." 398
Page 399
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 19 By this time the crew of the Alina had been transferred to the Shenandoah, each old shell-back disconsolately bringing with him the bag that contained his dunnage, and were confined in single irons, and then our carpenters went off to the prize armed with augers with which to scuttle her. In the course of an hour they returned, having performed their duty, and I stood leaning over the quarter railing, watching, with a curious heart-heaviness that none but a sailor can understand, to see the gallant old barque sink in her ocean grave. About four o'clock her stern suddenly settled, her bows reared high in the air, as if in indignant deprecation of such sacrilegious treatment at the hands of seamen, and with all sail set she went down right bravely. It was the first time I ever saw a vessel sink at sea, and I con- fess it was some time ere I could fully recover from the unpleasant feelings the sight engendered. A sailor learns to love a ship as something almost animate; and to see one deserted in mid-ocean by those who have been her guardians, and slowly settling in the unfathomable waters, is almost like standing beside a death-bed to watch the sinking away of a soul into the ocean of eternity. But I was fated to have a large experience in this direction ere the Shenandoah and I finally parted company. The Alina was captured in 15° 15' north latitude, and 26° 44' west longitude, and was valued at ninety-five thousand dollars. Six of her crew joined us, greatly to our satisfaction, for we sadly needed such an accession to our numbers, and received the same bounty as those who shipped at the Island of Desertas. The rest were confined in the top-gallant forecastle, while the officers were accommodated in the ward room and treated with every considera- tion, which I need scarcely say they heartily appreciated, especially the captain, who remarked to me that he little anticipated such kind- 399
Page 400
20 THE SHFX.\NUO.UI; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUI8ER ness from an enemy; but he declined all offers of refreshment, nor could I wonder, under the circumstances, at his disinclination to join in our conviviality. I subsequently became quite familiar with him, and passed many hours, first and last, listening to the stories of his experi- ence, which he related with infinite gusto. Several days now elapsed without bringing any especial incident to break the monotony of the voyage. The weather was glorious; the timely addition to our crew made the labor of working our gal- lant ship fall less heavily upon her company, and elated with the success that had thus far attended us, we dashed merrily forward on our course. The thought often occurred to me, and I doubt not to many of my shipmates, that there was something almost terribly problemati- cal as to the way and manner in which our cruise was destined to terminate, but that very uncertainty gave an additional zest to the wild, free life upon which we were entering, and surrounded with a fresh glamour of romance, our ship and the cause in which she sailed. On the fifth of November we discovered a little fore-and-aft schooner standing to southward, and gave chase, under steam. Before eight o'clock we had made a prize of her, and she proved to be the Charter Oak, from Boston, bound to San Francisco with a general cargo. The Captain had his wife, her sister, and a little boy on board with him, and there they were bound round Cape Horn, in that little schooner of less than one hundred and fifty tons burthen,—a note- worthy instance of Yankee perseverance and daring. We were in want of a variety of articles in the furnishing way, particularly chairs, and concluded, without much hesitation, to help 400
Page 401
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 21 « ourselves from the prize, so our boats were lowered and a party sent on board of her, to break out her hold and bring away whatever might be of use to us. The boats returned, after several hours' absence, loaded to the water's edge with sofas, chairs, small tables, and an almost endless variety of preserved fruits and vegetables, among the rest a quan- tity of canned tomatoes, which lasted us about six months, and formed an agreeable addition to our commissariat. Having helped ourselves to what we wished, and transferred the ladies, officers, and crew to our own ship, the schooner was set on fire, and we steamed away to the southward, a light wind blow- ing from the northeast, and the sea almost without a ripple. The prisoners taken from the Charter Oak were confined in single irons and placed in the top-gallant forecastle, and accommo- dations were found for the officers, the ladies, and the little boy, in the ward room. All were in fine spirits as we glided away from the scene of our last achievement. Even the captain of our last prize I noticed walking the poop with his wife, with a very much-at-home and per- fectly contented air. For the next three days all hands were busy in putting to- gether and setting up our new furniture, and in disposing of the other contributions which the Charter Oak had poured into our treasury. Everything in the shape of edibles was equally divided among the messes fore and aft. In all things on the Shenandoah it was share and share alike. I should mention that as soon as it could be arranged, the after cabin on the starboard side was given up to the use of the ladies and the little boy, and it was amusing to notice with what amaze- ment our fair prisoners received the courtesy with which we en- 401
Page 402
22 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER deavored to alleviate their unpleasant position. That they had an- ticipated rude and perhaps brutal treatment from their captors was evident, and not unnaturally perhaps, as all sorts of sensational stories had been circulated in regard to the doings of other Con- federate cruisers; and who does not know that humanity is prone to listen to and believe any recital of horror that keeps within the boundary of possibility. We were not sorry, however, to have an opportunity of disabusing the minds of two Northern ladies of the notion that Confederate men-of-war's-men were a sort of revised editon of East Indian Sepoys. On the 8th, about eleven a. m. a lookout on the foretop-sail yard reported a sail in sight, and as usual, everything was in com- motion. As there was only a light breeze blowing, we got up steam and proceeded in chase, and were not long in overhauling her. We showed the English colors, whereupon she hoisted the United States flag, which, of course, sealed her doom. As usual, a boat was sent on board, which returned in about half an hour with the captain and his papers, from whom we learned that our prize was the barque D. Godfrey from Boston, bound to Valparaiso with a cargo of lumber and salt beef. Of the latter commodity we determined to lay in a supply sufficient to last us for the cruise, and a gang of carpenters and men were sent on board to break out her hold. This, however, was found to be such a la- borious task that we decided to give it up and destroy her as she was. By six o'clock her officers and crew were taken off, after which the bulkheads in the cabin and pantry were knocked down by a few blows of the carpenter's hatchet and thrown in a pile on the floor. A match was applied, and in fifteen minutes the flames were bursting through the skylights, and the work of destruction had begun. -. 402
Page 403
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 23 It was an imposing scene. Darkness had settled around us when the rigging and sails took fire, but every rope could be seen as distinctly as upon a painted canvas, as the flames made their way from the deck, and writhed upward like fiery serpents. Soon the yards came thundering down by the run as the lifts and halyards yielded to the devouring element, the standing rigging parted like blazing flax, and the spars simultaneously went by the board and left the hulk wrapped from stem to stern in one fierce blaze, like a floating, fiery furnace. While this was passing, her late commander paced the quar- ter-deck with folded arms and contracted brow, gazing out upon the ruin he was powerless to avert, with what feelings I could well imagine. "That was a vessel which has done her duty well for forty years," he said to one of my brother officers, as she finally disap- peared. "She has faced old Boreas in every part of the world, in the service of her master, and after such a career, to be destroyed by men on a calm night, on this tropical sea, is too bad—too bad!" "It is but one of the results of the terrible war raging at home," remarked one of the ladies who had been a silent witness of the scene. "Would to God it was over! that the destruction of life and property by sea and land might cease." "War is a bad thing, there's no denying it," resumed the cap- tain; "bad enough on land, where at least you've a solid foundation under you, but infinitely worse at sea, where it destroys the few planks that you have learned to trust to keep you from going to Davy Jones's. There is no sight so awful to a sailor as a ship on fire, even when, as in this instance, you know there is no human being on board; but there's no use in grumbling." Our last prize was captured in latitude 4° 42' north, and longi- tude 28° 24' west, and was valued at thirty-six thousand dollars. 403
Page 404
24 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER We had now on board about forty prisoners; ten had joined the Shenandoah, and we were anxious to dispose of the others. An opportunity soon offered. On the following day a sail was discovered, and we proceeded in chase, under canvas. In about three hours we came up with her, and found her to be a Danish brig, bound to Rio Janeiro. An officer was dispatched on board to ascer- tain if the captain would take what prisoners we had into port. He consented to take a part of them, and we immediately sent on board those we had first captured, with our best wishes for a pleasant pas- sage and a speedy arrival at home. The transfer occupied an hour or two, and on parting we pre- sented the Danish captain with a fine chronometer we had captured from one of our prizes. He was much pleased with the gift, and assured us he should aways retain it, in remembrance of the Shenandoah and the cause she represented. On the 10th we captured in 4° 20' north latitude, and 26° 39' west longitude, the brig Susan, from Cardiff, bound to South America, but owned in New York, with a cargo of coal. She was valued at five thousand four hundred and thirty-six dollars. She was scuttled. Two of her men joined us; the rest were disposed of as our other prisoners had been. We had captured four vessels within the last ten days, which, all things considered, we were disposed to regard as a fair business. We hoped, however, to do something more to make Uncle Sam re- member us before going into the South Atlantic, for we were now in the track of ships bound out from New York and other ports in the United States to San Francisco and South America. On the 12th we captured the Kate Prince, a large clipper ship of about eleven hundred tons burthen, from Cardiff, with a neutral cargo, and ransomed her for forty thousand dollars on condition 404
Page 405
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 25 of her taking the rest of our prisoners into port. If our last prize had not had two ladies on her passenger list, I believe we should have burned her, but we had a pair of our fair enemies already in charge, and ungallant as the admission may sound, we had no desire to increase the number, through doubts of our ability to make them comfortable, I may add, in extenuation of our apparent churlish- ness. By three o'clock the following morning our ship was once more free from prisoners, much to our satisfaction, and the Kate Prince proceeded on her way. The following day, Sunday, we discovered a sail which had the appearance of a little Yankee schooner. She was a splendid sailer, and it required several hours to overhaul her, but at length, finding escape impossible, she showed the Stars and Stripes, and the usual blank cartridge fired across her bows, brought her to. It turned out to be another Boston craft, the Lizzie M. Stacey, bound to the Sandwich Islands, round the Cape of Good Hope. No one but a Yankee skipper would thus venture half way round the world in such a vessel, but the old sea-dog did not appear to think such a trip anything worth mentioning. Something to this intent and purport, I remarked as the old fellow came on board our ship, and was rewarded with a contemptu- ous laugh. "Shiver my timbers if there an't the most lubberly set of sailors afloat in these latitudes that I ever fell in with," he said, adding a tough old nautical oath or two by way of emphasis. "Why day before yesterday, I run across the bows of a big English ship bound to Australia, and all hands made a rush forward when I hove in sight as though I'd been the Sea Serpent or some other almighty curiosity. They invited me to come on board but there was a stiff breeze blowing at the time, and I'd no notion of losing a good run 405
Page 406
26 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER for the sake of showing off a little before a lot of chaps who seem to think nothing less than a seventy-four is safe to cross the ocean in." "Faix, and the ould man was right," remarked the first mate, a genuine wild Irishman, aside to one of our men; " the dirthy black- guards wouldn't have appreciated the compliment of a visit from us. and what's more, my hearty, if we'd had ten guns aboard there, you wouldn't have got us without a bit of a shindy, or if the breeze had been a bit stiff er, we'd given her the square sail, and all h—1 couldn't have caught her." There was truth in this. Had she been armed the Lizzie M. Stacey would certainly never have surrendered without a tussle, and with a favorable wind, I am inclined to believe she would have shown us a clean pair of heels. Could we have spared the necessary men to man her, we should have put one of our rifle guns on board and commissioned her as a tender to our ship, but as yet we were too short-handed for such an achievement, and she was reluctantly doomed to the same fate as her predecessors. Two of her crew joined us, and the rest were placed in the top-gallant forecastle in single irons. The officers of course received the customary courtesies which, however, were pretty much thrown away upon the captain, who was the most unapproachable old curmudgeon I ever encoun- tered. To get a civil word out of him was simply impossible, but the mate took kindly to his altered fortunes, and, in a day or two, could spin a kuff er with any one on board. Our last prize was valued at fifteen thousand dollars, and was captured in 1° 43' north latitude, and 28° 24' west longitude. Our cruise in the North Atlantic was now finished. It had been brief in duration, but enough had been accomplished to give the Shenandoah such a reputation as would be apt to insure her officers and crew anything but a cordial reception from one of Uncle Sam's cruisers, should we have the luck to fall in with one. 406
This page contains an image.
Page 407
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 27 CHAPTER III FROM THE "LINE" TO ST. PAUL'S ISLAND O N the 15th of November we crossed the line, and the usual ceremonies attendant upon that event on board a man- of-war were not neglected. It is a custom as old as sailing, for aught I know, for every armed vessel on passing the equator to receive a visit from his aquatic godship Neptune, who is supposed to hold his court in that locality, suffering no ship to pass until he has satisfied himself by personal inspection that there are none on board but regularly initi- ated sailors; that is, those who have previously crossed the line and submitted to his initiatory rites. We had a number of novices among officers and men, and consequently the event was anticipated with even more than ordinary interest. It was just gone eight bells in the evening when a rough voice over the bows was heard hailing the ship. "What's wanting?" said the officer of the deck. "Heave to. I want to come on board," was the surly response. The requisite orders were given, and a few moments after a gigantic figure was seen ascending the side, dressed in an oil-skin coat, and wearing a wig of Manilla yam, which, at a little distance, had the appearance of yellowish curly hair. He was accompanied by another grotesque figure representing his wife, and the two were followed by a third, who was supposed to be His Majesty's confidential barber, provided with the utensils of his calling, which consisted of a bucket of slush, and a prepos- terous razor, about three feet long, manufactured from an iron hoop. His godship carried an immense speaking-trumpet under 407
This page contains an image.
Page 408
28 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER his arm, a trident in his right hand, and stepped upon the deck with all the dignity his assumed position warranted. "What ship is this?" he said, in an authoritative voice. "The Confederate cruiser Shenandoah" replied the officer of the deck, touching his hat. "Are there any of my subjects on board who have never crossed the line before?" was the next question. "There are several, I believe." "Bring them before me!" continued his godship, and there- upon such of the company as had already passed the ordeal dispersed in search of the novices. We found them stowed away in every imaginable place of con- cealment, but they were scented out, and dragged before the Ocean deity, where they were solemnly lathered from the slush-bucket, and shaved wth the iron hoop, according to immemorial usage. The frolic was kept up until a late hour-, and an additional zest was added to the festivities by the fact that two or three of our youngsters actually believed that they had been in the presence of the veritable Neptune, and it was only after the expiration of a considerable time that they discovered that they had been imposed upon by some of their own shipmates. We were now steering to the southward, in the hope of falling in with vessels bound from San Francisco to New York, round Cape Horn. We had struck the southeast trade winds, which wafted us along at the rate of nine or ten knots an hour, with all sail set. The weather was delightful, and in high spirits we sped merrily on our way. Some days had now elapsed without bringing us in sight of any 408
Page 409
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 29 sail we might lawfully capture, but the time could scarcely be said to hang heavily upon our hands. We had an excellent library on board comprising over six hundred volumes, and with reading, social games, and story telling, we managed to pass the period of inac- tivity quite felicitiously. Of course our lookouts were constantly on the alert for Yan- kee craft which are readily recognized by the peculiarity of their rig; but although ships of every other nationality were flitting around us from time to time, those we sought failed to cross our path. Occasionally we exchanged signals and reckoning with those we met by the way, but for the most part we avoided social inter- course. The 26th found us in 27° 30' south latitude, an excellent run from the line. About six o'clock that afternoon we gave chase to a vessel which however proved to be English, much to the annoyance of every one. as we were beginning to feel impatient for another dash at the enemy, and our prisoners, especially Captain Archer of the Lizzie M. Stacey, were anxiously hoping that the next prize would be ransomed upon condition of taking them into port. On the 28th we sighted several sails, but our captain, for some reason best known to himself, did not give chase to any of them. On the 4th of December we discovered a craft which had the general appearance of an American, and we stood in chase and over- hauled her, the United States flag flying at our peak. She flew the Italian colors, but looked so thoroughly Yankee that we sent a couple of officers, dressed in blue uniform, to keep up our assumed character on board, to have a look at her papers. It turned out as we feared. She was American built, but had been sold to the Italians to keep her out of the hands of enterprising gentlemen in our line of business. 409
Page 410
30 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER About four o'clock the same afternoon, another sail was re- ported, which for a time puzzled us all, until one of our old sea- dogs pronounced her to be an American whaler, which eventually proved to be the case. As we steamed near her she hoisted the American flag, where- upon we stopped our engines and sent a boat with a prize crew on board, and in a little time, her Captain, having his papers in charge, was with us. She was a bluff-bowed, square-sterned, old-fashioned craft, from New Bedford, of about four hundred tons, and had been whal- ing for nearly fifty years. She had been out about four months, and had taken but one whale, which she was engaged in "cutting in" when we captured her. Her commander, Captain Worth, was one of the finest speci- mens of an American sailor I have ever met. Brave, generous, and open-hearted, he was one of those men who inspire an enemy with respect and a feeling of regret that the stern necessity of war in- volves their capture. He had been a shipmaster twenty-five years, and of course could not avoid feeling deeply the destruction of his old craft in which he had faced so many perils, and earned an honor- able fame in his calling. But nothing of this appeared in his face as he came over the side and saluted us with a courteous "Good afternoon, gentlemen. You have a fine ship here for a cruiser." "Yes, sir," responded the officer of the deck, "and that vessel of yours looks as if she was familiar with travelling salt water." "Yes, she was laid on the stocks before you and I were thought of," he answered, leaning nonchalantly against the bulwarks, and thereupon fell into an easy and affable conversation with the officer of the deck, upon whales and whaling, as naturally as though we were a brother whaler, and he had come on board of us for a " gam." Ere he left us, he had won the respect and esteem of every man on board the Shenandoah. 410
Page 411
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 81 It is generally the case that whalers are better provisioned than any other class of vessels; consequently we considered the present opportunity a good one to replenish our own stores, and therefore lay alongside our prize till morning, her crew in the mean time being placed in irons,—a precautionary measure we disliked to adopt, but our own safety required it. As soon as it was light, the whaler's crew were released, and assisted, with the best grace they could, in transferring their own supplies, consisting principally of flour and bread, to the Shenan- doah. This occupied several hours, and during the time a number of our officers went off to see what a whaler was like, and inspect the blubber which had been cut from the sea-monster which was still moored alongside. Late in the afternoon, having secured what we desired from the barque Edward, we set her on fire, and got under way, taking three of her boats in tow and steering for the Island of Tristan d'Acunha, where our Captain had resolved to land what prisoners he had on board. Early the following morning the island was in sight looming up some eight thousand three hundred feet above the level of the sea, and by eight o'clock, we had it on our port beam. Steaming slowly round to discover a suitable place for landing, we at last saw the English flag flying from a flag-staff on shore, and hove to, and the boats we had been towing were hauled alongside, and the prisoners with their clothes and bedding placed in them. While this was going on, we observed a boat coming off from the shore, and ere long she was rocking under our quarter, and its principal occupant was offering for sale milk, eggs, chickens, and fresh meat, commodities I need hardly say for which we were quite ready to barter. It was the first time the Islanders had seen the flag floated from 411
Page 412
32 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDEBATE CRUISER our peak, and to what nationality it belonged they could not imag- ine, nor was their astonishment in any way diminished when we informed them that our ship was a Confederate cruiser, and we had thirty-five prisoners which we proposed contributing to their popu- lation. "And where the devil did you get your prisoners?" queried one of the mystified natives. "From a whaler not far from here," responded one of our officers. "Just so, to be sure; and what became of the whaler?" "We burned her up." "Whew Is that the way you dispose of what vessels you fall in with?" "If they belong to the United States; not otherwise." "Well, my hearty, you know your own business, but my notion is that these sort of pranks will get you into the devil's own muss before you are through with it. What your quarrel with the United States is I don't know, but I swear I don't believe they'll stand this kind of work." The astonishment our proceedings occasioned the residents of Tristan d'Acunha (there are only about forty of them all told), and their evident conviction that our calling was not likely to be a safe one, did not stand in the way of their commercial proclivities, and we soon struck up a bargain for a quantity of fresh beef, which, however, had to be killed before it could be delivered; but the time was disposed of by getting the prisoners safely off, and seeing that they were provided with coffee, tea, sugar, and all other articles necessary for their temporal sojourn. At last the Islanders came off with the provisions we had pur- chased, and received in exchange flour and pilot bread. We also 412
Page 413
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 83 procured of them a couple of sheep, and after making these addi- tions to our commissariat, we steamed away, leaving the island on our starboard quarter. This last prize furnished us with a new phase of cruising ex- perience. Heretofore our prisoners had been transferred to some prize selected for the purpose, and sent on their way, if not rejoic- ing, at least reasonably well satisfied with such a method of egress from one of the unpleasant predicaments of war; but now for the first time we had left our captured foes on an island of the South Atlantic, thousands of miles from their homes, where they might have to remain for many weary months, ere a passing ship would take them off (though it was of course possible they might be re- lieved in a week), and none of us were quite satisfied with the part we were necessitated to play, but I question whether our Yankee acquaintances stood much in need of our sympathy after all. They had the free range of a charming island, where reigned perennial summer; besides, there were a number of the gentler sex in want of mates, I learned, and where there are pretty women so circum- stanced, there can sailors be happy. I may mention, en passant, that they have rather a primitive way of celebrating the nuptial contract on Tristan d'Acunha. The oldest inhabitant, one of the ubiquitous sons of Connecticut, of course, who stranded there some five and twenty years ago, and drives a thriving trade in beef and poultry with the whalers that put in there, has assumed to himself the prerogative of uniting in the holy bonds of wedlock the matrimonially disposed, and he per- forms the service, I understand, as much to the satisfaction of the parties interested as it could be done by surpliced priest before the chancel rails. On the following day we discovered that our engine was in- jured, one of the propeller bands being broken in two places, and it was at first rumored that we would have to put into some port for 413
Page 414
34 the shexandoah; oe the last confederate ceuiser repairs; but after a thorough investigation it was decided to en- deavor to temporarily remedy the difficulty where we were, and in the meantime to depend upon our canvas. I ought to have mentioned that before capturing the barque Edward, we overhauled a sail, the Adelaide, from Baltimore, and she was about being consigned to the fate of her predecessors that had fallen into our hands, when we discovered that she belonged to a Mr. Pendergrass, a Baltimorean and a Southern sympathizer, which saved her from sacrifice, but the discovery was only made after her bulkheads had been demolished and a good deal of miscellaneous damage done preparatory to burning. The cargo, however, not being the property of any of our friends, was ransomed for forty thousand dollars. On the 14th we were scudding along under topsails, at the rate of ten or eleven knots an hour, with a high sea running, which in- creased tremendously as we neared the Cape of Good Hope. To any one but a sailor it would hardly have seemed possible that a vessel could live in such a sea as we encountered in this locality. It ran absolutely mountains high, and had not the Shenandoah been an excellent sea-boat, among her other admirable characteristics, we should have felt considerable apprehension, although instances are comparatively rare of vessels foundering from sheer stress of weather. Numerous birds were following in our wake, and among them were the albatross, cape pigeon, and stormy petrel, or, as the latter are better known among seamen, Mother Carey's chickens. On the 15th, our reckoning showed us to be about five hundred and fifty miles to the southward and westward of the Cape and the ocean still pursuing its mad antics with unabated fury, but over it our gallant vessel scud, as easily as the birds skimmed the air astern. Our position, however, was becoming anything but comfort- able. To get a meal in Christian fashion was the next thing to im- possible. The steward, after much devious navigating would suc- 414
Page 415
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 35 ceed at last in placing it on the table, and the next moment a heavy lurch of the ship would scatter dishes and contents in every direc- tion. Once, not satisfied with such a piece of impertinence, old Neptune sent a sea over our starboard quarter, which came pouring down upon us like a cataract, and the remnant of our dinner pre- viously disposed around the cabin floor by the first accident, was by the second, submerged under a couple of feet of water. During the prevalence of a heavy and continuous gale like the present, a man-of-war presents a curious scene. The battery is secured with extra tackles, preventer-braces and backstays are rove and taughtened, hatches battened down, and men are stationed at the relieving tackles in case the wheel ropes part, to prevent the ship from broaching to. These precautionary measures taken, or perhaps the ship is hove to under close-reefed topsails, fore storm staysail, main try- sail, and a tarpaulin in the mizzen rigging, little parties of men may be seen congregated on different parts of the berth deck, each lis- tening to some tough yarn, spun by some old shell-back of their number. Suddenly the sound of the boatswain's call is heard, sharp and shrill above the howling of the tempest, and for the moment con- versation ceases, and every man anxiously awaits to learn the nature of the summons. It is nothing any more serious this time than to call all hands to the agreeable duty of "splicing the main brace," and in an instant there is a general rush for the deck, where the grog is served to each in turn. To a landsman it may seem the height of recklessness to serve out any intoxicating beverage at such a time, to a ship's company, but the omission of such an item in the routine of their lives would probably engender a general feeling of dissatisfaction more to be dreaded than any trifling excess in which they would be likely to indulge. 415
Page 416
36 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISEE On that day the storm culminated. It was sublime beyond description, and we drove before it, at the rate of eleven knots an hour, under close reefed topsails and reefed foresail. About five o'clock that afternoon, we took a sea about amidships, which poured down the main hatch, to the summary discomfiture of a knot of the boys who were enjoying themselves by listening to a "twister" of more than ordinary interest. Such were some of the specimens of "life on the ocean wave," that we encountered while working up toward the Cape of Good Hope, a name suggestive of good omens, but our experience did not tend to confirm the reputation that has gone abroad concerning the peaceful proclivities of the elements thereabouts. On the 16th, it was still blowing a gale from the northward and westward, and we were running before it at the rate of eleven or twelve knots an hour under a light spread of canvas. About eight o'clock in the evening a tremendous sea came over our quarter, carrying away everything moveable in its track, and thoroughly drenching about half our officers and crew. The ship now seemed to be flooded fore and aft, the greater part of the time, but such good precautionary measures had been taken that comparatively little water found its way below. At twelve o'clock the next day, a wave of mountain dimensions came surging down upon us, and rearing its mighty crest, like a very demon of the ocean intent upon our destruction, discharged a cataract of water, whose weight could only have been estimated by hundreds of tons, upon our devoted deck. It was a moment of fear- ful anxiety. Fore and aft the water stood level with the top of the bulwarks,—the ship lost her headway and trembled as did Goliath when the pebble from the shepherd boy's sling penetrated his brazen head-gear, and like Goliath she would in a few brief moments have sunk to rise no more, had not our dauntless crew in obedience to an order from the officer of the deck, uttered as coolly as though it was 416
Page 417
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 37 the most ordinary occasion instead of a matter of life and death, sprung forward with axes, and dashed out the ports, thus afford- ing egress to the mass of water which was pressing us down, like the hand of doom, into the treacherous bosom of the Atlantic. That day the gale finally blew itself out, but our troubles were as yet by no means over, for as the wind went down, the sea in- creased, if that was possible, and for three or four succeeding days, the Shenandoah was buffeted, tossed, and knocked about, as an empty bottle might be driven in the wake of a steamship, but we managed to hold on our course toward Australia. It had been my fortune to spend four Christmas days at sea, far removed from all the festivities and merry-making that charac- terizes its advent upon shore, but my Christmas in the Shenandoah, off the Cape of Good Hope, was the most miserable travesty of the festival I ever celebrated. We were boxing about, as I have de- scribed, at the mercy of old Neptune's irate temper, drenched with water the greater part of the time, and generally and profoundly miserable, when the anniversary of the day that brought "peace on earth, good will to men," dawned upon us. My thoughts would revert to home, to the family gathering at the Christmas dinner, to the old church with its evergreen decorations, and to the evening spent in fun and frolic. Such was the home picture, and a more complete reverse of it could hardly be imagined, than was presented by our ship and com- pany. In the place of pendant evergreens my eyes rested upon the smoky, swaying lamps, still dimly burning in the ward room, and instead of receiving the time-honored salutations from family friends, and bright-faced girls, whose lips give so sweet an intona- tion to the old phrase, I heard it from rough-bearded men, sun- burned and swarthy, and in place of preparing for a gay holiday, I donned my sou'wester and moodily made my way to the deck to stand a four hours* watch. 417
Page 418
38 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER Our cook, good, conscientious man that he was, put all his science in requsition, and strained his resources to the utmost, to achieve a good dinner, but the old goose upon which he tried his skill, was, I verily believe, the identical fowl that Commodore Noah took with him on his first and last cruise. All that fire could do to render digestible that tough old specimen, was done, and in due time we grimly devoured him, but not before he had been several times rescued from his native element beneath the table, where he had been tossed by the heaving of the ship. My solemn advice to the world at large is, never to go off the Cape of Good Hope in a cruiser to enjoy Christmas. On the 29th our eyes were greeted once more by the welcome sight of a ship. As it was astern, we shortened sail and waited for her to come up with us. By three o'clock she was near enough to "read bunting," and by way of testing her nationality, we showed the English flag. Up went the Stars and Stripes to the peak of the stranger, a welcome sight to us, whereupon we lowered our borrowed ensign, and, much to the consternation, I have no doubt, of our new acquaintance, ran up the flag of the Confederacy, and fired a blank cartridge across her bows. She immediately hove to, and we sent a boat to bring off the Captain and his papers. The Captain of the stranger soon reached us, and reported his craft to be the barque Delphine, of Bangor, Maine, seventy days out from London, in ballast, and bound for Akyab, Arabia, for a cargo of rice. The Captain in- formed us that his wife and child were on board, and also that his steward was encumbered with a helpmate. The Captain's wife was ill, and with such a sea running, he feared it would be dangerous to attempt to bring her off. Captain Waddell expressed his regret at the inconvenience to which he was compelled to subject the ladies, but assured him that 418
Page 419
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 39 no danger should befall them, as our life-boat with six good oars- men, should be detailed for the service. To object was of course useless, so with as good a grace as possible our prisoners set out in the life-boat on their unpleasant expedition. In due time the life-boat returned with the two women and little boy, the Captain of the prize and such articles of personal property as he desired to retain. The Captain's wife woman-like, brought with her a canary bird in its cage, and if a bandbox con- taining her best bonnet had been added to her luggage, it would have been complete. Soon after two or three other boats put off from the barque containing her crew, who were at once confined in single irons, and placed in the top-gallant forecastle. One of our officers with two or three men had remained on board the Delphine to fire her as soon as her own company had been safely removed; and we, of the Shenandoah, were now anxiously pacing the decks, watching for the first indications that this duty had been performed. Night closed around us before the first forked tongue of fire, issuing from the companion-way of the fated barque, warned us that the destroying element had commenced its work. Rapidly the flames gathered headway, casting a fierce, lurid glow over the heaving bosom of the ocean; from doors, windows, and hatchways they burst forth like the vengeful spirit of destruction, wound up the spars, stretched out upon the yards, swiftly envelop- ing shrouds, sails, and halyards in one splendid, fiery ruin; and standing out, strongly revealed against the darkening sky, the burn- ing vessel surged and tossed, a holocaust to the God of War. But while all this was passing, the lookouts were closely scan- ning the watery expanse that intervened between us and the burn- ing ship, to discover our boat returning. The darkness of the night 419
Page 420
40 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER and the heavy sea that was running, rendered us unpleasantly ap- prehensive that she might have swamped on her passage back, and as a precautionary measure, lanterns were run up in the rigging to advise them of our whereabouts. At last we saw them, just rising on the summit of a mighty wave, less than a hundred yards to wind- ward, and presently after we distinguished the rough voice of the officer in command hailing us. "Ahoy, there!" he said; "throw us a line!" The request was complied with,—a coil of rope sailed away from the deck of the Shenandoah through the air, rendered half opaque by the spray of breaking waves; it was caught by our com- rades,—in another moment they were alongside, and presently after we had them safe on board, and were once more standing on our course. The after-cabin on the starboard side was appropriated to the Captain of our last prize and his wife, and in every respect they were treated far more like passengers than prisoners, but never was courtesy more completely thrown away upon an enemy. They not only utterly failed to appreciate, in any degree, the manner in which they were treated while they were with us, but indulged in the most scandalous romance at our expense after they got on shore. This was all well enough no doubt, but if our friend of the Delphine had fallen into our hands a second time, we, knowing the reputation he had given us, would have taught him by experience ere we parted company, something of the dark side of the picture which a prisoner of war has occasion to inspect. For an hour or more the Captain of the Delphine paced up and down the deck, accompanied by his wife, watching his blazing ves- sel, now rapidly dropping below the horizon. I could not help pitying him. He was a third owner, and probably had there in- vested the savings of half a lifetime of patient toil. To see the 430
Page 421
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 41 fruits of so many years swept away in an hour, might well try the philosophy of the best of men. The 30th of December found us still standing toward Aus- tralia, with all sail set on a bowline. It was one of the most beauti- ful days we had seen since leaving England. The air was soft and balmy, like the month of May in our own sunny South, and the heavy sea we had encountered for so many days seemed to have ex- hausted its mad passion, and had died away into the long undulat- ing swell almost invariably encountered off soundings. During my watch that morning, I had a long conversation with the Captain of our last prize, in the course of which he informed me that he was a good deal chagrined when he first came on board of us and discovered to what an incipient man of war he had sur- rendered, without an effort at escape. He had expected, when he came off to us, to find a cruiser with all her guns in working order, and men to work them,—a craft, in fact, that in five minutes' time would be ready to blow him out of water, but "distance lent en- chantment to the view," he discovered, when he saw our real condi- tion, and he bitterly lamented that he had not at least made the attempt to show us his heels. I very much incline to the opinion that had he shaken out his canvas, going at the rate he was, he would have given us the slip before, short-handed as we were, we could have made sail, or brought our guns to bear. The new year, wearing all the languid beauty of a Southern clime, opened upon me just as I was about to be relieved from duty on deck. The weather was fine, with a light, variable wind blowing, and the stars threw their silvery shimmer over the quiet water. Every one on board, save the officer of the deck, the quartermaster, the lookout, and the man at the wheel, were wrapped in slumber. Such were my surroundings when the ship's bell, striking the hour 481
Page 422
42 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER of twelve, announced the death of eighteen hundred sixty four and the birth of eighteen hundred sixty-five. Many thousand miles from home and friends, with the broad Atlantic all around us, and our adventurous career just begun, we did not forget the day, and at eight o'clock in the morning we un- furled our banner to the breeze, and there at our peak it waved, the emblem of a young nation which for four years had struggled, God only knows with what self-denying patience and resolution, for liberty. The next day we sighted the Island of St. Paul, in the Indian Ocean, and stood in with a view of regulating our chronometer. By one o'clock we had approached as near its southern extremity as we desired to venture, and let go our anchor. CHAPTER IV from st. paul's to Melbourne, Australia ST. PAUL'S ISLAND is situated several hundred miles to the eastward of the Cape of Good Hope, and is compara- tively seldom visited. To sight land is always agreeable after a three months' cruise, and there were many applicants for permission to go on shore, this being the first opportunity that had offered since we set sail from Madeira, and excepting the island of Tristan d'Acunha, was the first land we had seen. Leave was extended to a number of the officers, and they pres- ently pulled off in one of the quarter boats, well provided with all the requisite paraphernalia for fishing, having in contemplation a raid upon the finny denizens of the ocean, which seemed to have a peculiar penchant for congregating near these shores. There was voyagers, who had been so long confined within the walls of our many a longing glance cast after the receding boat by the weary V 422
Page 423
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 43 floating fortress, and more than one discontented face might have been seen moving up and down the deck until the little craft, with its more fortunate occupants, rounded a point of land which jutting far out into the sea, formed a partially landlocked bay and dis- appeared. Ere long the lookout at mast-head reported land to the north- ward, and an inspection of the chart showed it to be the Island of Amsterdam, distant from St. Paul's about forty miles. The Island of St. Denis makes up the group, and is the residence of the Gov- ernor whose official sway extends over the three. Governor Rondoney was formerly an officer in the French army, and is a gentleman of considerable ability and personal popu- larity. He is said to keep up a fine establishment and to wear his honors right bravely. The climate of these islands is delightful, and with a fine soil, and all the auxiliaries peculiar to a semi-tropical country, I was somewhat surprised to learn that they were but sparsely inhabited. Their out-of-the-way location has no doubt something to do with it, as that circumstance would naturally deter foreigners from set- tling there to any great extent. They carry on a desultory trade with Madagascar, and some ports on the mainland of the eastern coast of Africa, but this comprises all their commerce, and nearly all of the few vessels that touch there have no more important busi- ness than the regulation of their chronometers, an important item with the vessels to be sure, but not a very productive source of revenue to Governor Rondoney's dominions. A little before six o'clock the boat returned, literally loaded down with fish of excellent quality, and the excursionists were ac- cordingly in the best of spirits. They paid dearly for their amuse- ment, however. All of them were fearfully sunburned by the strong reflection from the water, and there was not a pair of hands that 423
Page 424
44 THE SHENANDOAH; OK THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER had not been thoroughly blistered by their long pull at the oars. They had hoped to capture a seal or two, as these animals are fre- quently found in the vicinity, but failing in this, they turned covet- ous eyes upon a penguin which they found in the possession of three old French shellbacks, left there some time before by a wandering ship, with whom they struck up an acquaintance and brought his aquatic f owlship off in triumph. These three French worthies had things very much their own way on St. Paul's, they being in fact the only residents. They were engaged in catching and salting fish, with which to freight a vessel then absent on a voyage to Madagascar, where a ready market was found for that kind of provender. Before we sailed, they came off to pay us a visit, and brought with them a quantity of chickens, which they exchanged with us for pocket handkerchiefs, an article of which they certainly stood in need, as indeed they did of various other etceteras of civilized life, but upon the whole, the old fellows seemed to be rather enjoying themselves in this Robinson Crusoish way. The other two islands are not quite so badly off by way of in- habitants, and the one which has the honor to be the residence of His Excellency the Governor, boasts of a considerable village; but if the labor of ruling bears any proportion to the number of the ruled, I incline to the opinion that Governor Rondoney's official duties are not arduous. I should have mentioned before that when we first sighted St. Paul's, the Captain of our last prize took the conceit into his crotchety head that we contemplated no less a practical joke than leaving himself and his company there with the agreeable prospect of remaining perhaps for years, subsisting as best they could, ere an opportunity would offer of a return to the world. I observed his wife anxiously scanning the beautiful solitude 484
Page 425
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 45 as we were standing in, and the tears with which her eyes were heavy furnished me with a ready clue to the apprehension under which she was suffering. "Did you suppose, Madam," I said, by way of setting her fears at rest, " that you were to be left in this out-of-the-way spot?" "That was my husband's expectation," she answered, "and I presumed of course that his fears were not without foundation." "Let me assure you to the contrary then, and be good enough to inform me how your husband or yourself came to imagine that the commander of the Shenandoah was capable of leaving a whole ship's company in such a place." She hesitated for a moment, and then, with a furtive glance at my face, said: "Why, they tell terrible stories at home about the outrages committed upon defenceless men and women by your rebel cruisers. The papers have been full of them, and I naturally supposed they were founded on fact, at least." I could not restrain a smile at the naivete with which our lady prisoner admitted the entertainment of a pretty well-defined con- viction that she was in the hands of veritable pirates, who were only restrained from flying the black flag, with its pleasing suggestive skull and cross bones, because, for the time being, it suited their convenience to sail under another, little if any more reputable in her estimation; but I suppressed any stronger demonstrations of merriment, and upon my expressing a desire to see some of the literature to which she referred, she brought from her state-room a file of an illustrated New York publication, wherein was a mar- vellous narrative, written by a lady with a multitude of initials. I subsequently read it through, greatly amused, I must confess, at. its stupendous absurdities. In the course of the story the Con- federate cruiser Alabama was introduced, and her officers and crew 425
Page 426
46 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER represented as a pack of rascals, whom Morgan, the buccaneer, or the leader of the Indian Sepoys would have expelled from their several commands, lest they should become contaminated by evil associations. The grotesque blunders by the authoress when she undertook to mount the nautical horse,* furnished a theme of amusement for the wardroom for many a day. Having corrected our chronometers, which, however, were only found to be a few seconds out of the way, we were about setting sail when we observed a ship coming round the Island, and hauled up to intercept her. It had been some time since a plump fish had come to our net, and all earnestly hoped the stranger might have the honor of belonging to the universal Yankee nation. As she neared us we showed the English flag to which she re- sponded by displaying the flag of the Netherlands; and as a closer inspection made her out thoroughly un-American in appearance, we allowed her to proceed on her voyage unmolested. The next day, January 3rd, we set studding sails for the first time, but were too short-handed to do it in scientific man-of-war style. We cherished the hope that the fine weather that had at last overtaken us was to continue, but the hope proved delusive, and the next morning found us under single reefed top-sails, a wet deck fore and aft, and hatches battened down to keep the water from the berth deck. On the 5th the wind moderated, and we once more cracked on all sail, anxious to reach Australia as soon as possible. The pris- oners had naturally begun to tire of their unaccustomed inactivity, and to pine for the moment when they would be once more free, although they were made, in every respect, as comfortable as cir- cumstances permitted. •The author's metaphor is a trifle mixed here! (Ed.) 426
Page 427
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 47 The Captain and his wife had the privilege of walking the poop deck whenever they chose, and availed themselves of the permission very freely; but the old fellow made himself so continually and un- mitigatedly disagreeable that our officers perforce avoided him, and as heartily wished to be rid of him and his ship's company as they were to discontinue our acquaintance. That afternoon we overhauled the ship Nimrod, of American build, but transferred to British owners out of compliment to the Confederate Navy, a mark of respect which was reciprocated by not taking the liberty of changing her place of destination. Her captain, however, a grand-looking old fellow, with tre- mendous white whiskers, which give him something of the general look of a venerable polar bear, came off in his gig, to return the call of our boarding officer, and brought with him a dozen of fine old Otard as a present to Captain Waddell. The compliment was fully appreciated, and a scene of festivity followed on board the Shenandoah that I shall not soon forget. It was but a brief sojourn that the Captain of the Nimrod made with us, but for weeks afterwards his name was often coupled by our officers with enthusiastic praise, and I only trust he has as pleasant reminiscences of his visit to the rebel cruiser. For some time afterwards nothing of special interest occurred. It was the same monotonous story of uneventful ocean life. The lookouts regularly mounted to their perches and swept the horizon with watchful eyes for wayfarers, that we might lawfully bid to pro- ceed no farther, but none such crossed our path. At last our reckoning showed us to be within a day or two's sail of Australia, that mighty island continent of the Indian seas. Whereupon we got our engine into operation and steamed for port. On the 25th, ninety days out from Madeira, we sighted land, 427
Page 428
48 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER and a few hours later we passed through Port Philip Heads, the entrance to Hobson's Bay. Here the pilot boarded us, and very much astonished was that functionary when he learned the name and character of the vessel he had in charge, which it seemed had been reported as the ship Royal Standard, fifty odd days out from London, but this erroneous impression was soon corrected by a tele- gram, and we steamed on up the bay at the rate of nine knots an hour passing a multitude of yachts, and pleasure boats of various descriptions, filled with an eager multitude, all apparently delighted to see such a ship with the Confederate flag flying, and about six o'clock we dropped our anchor off Sandridge, a small town about two miles from Melbourne. CHAPTER V OUR TARRY AT MELBOURNE A S soon as it became generally known in Melbourne that a /% Confederate cruiser had arrived in the offing, a scene of XjL excitement was inaugurated which baffles all adequate description. Crowds of people were rushing hither and thither, seeking authentic information concerning the stranger, and ere we had been an hour at anchor, a perfect fleet of boats was pull- ing toward us from every direction. As yet, however, no one was permitted to board us. It was still somewhat problematical what sort of a reception was in store for us from the authorities, and that was a question that had to be an- swered definitely, ere we permitted our decks to be encumbered by a crowd of possible enemies under the guise of curious friends. There was but one solitary deviation from this prohibitory rule respecting visitors. On one of the many little sail-boats rocking alongside, was an old man, whose anxiety to set foot on our decks would have been painful had it not been ludicrous. Finding a deaf 428
Page 429
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 49 ear turned to all his entreaties, as a last resort, he climbed the spar of his little vessel and watching his opportunity sprang into the mizzen-chains and scrambled on board. There was something so laughably audacious in being boarded whether we would or not, by a single individual, that the officer of the deck stood gazing at the intruder apparently somewhat at a loss whether it was his duty to surrender the ship, or throw him overboard. The old fellow took advantage of this momentary hesitation to explain that he was the only genuine Confederate in the country, which circumstance he insisted, entitled him to a reception on any vessel that flew his coun- try's flag. His logic was not first-rate, but his coolness and audacity were admirable; and these prevailing in his favor, he was allowed to remain, to his exceeding great satisfaction. As soon as practicable, an officer was dispatched on shore to confer with the authorities, and obtain permission for our ship to remain and procure some necessary repairs. He returned before midnight, having succeeded in his mission, and the next day the Shenandoah was thrown open to the inspection of visitors. As soon as this was known, and the news seemed to spread like wildfire, steamers and sail-boats came flocking off towards us. and all day long, and until far into the evening, were plying between our ship and the shore, bringing on board and taking away thou- sands of persons, all eager to say that they had visited the famous "rebel pirate." The multitude of absurd questions with which we were plied by the gaping crowd, would have made a stoic laugh. A large per- centage of our visitors seemed to entertain the notion that the human beings were removed from the vessels we captured, or not, as con- venience dictated, prior to their destruction, and solemnly queried of us as to the manner in which the Yankees bore themselves while watching the approach of the devouring element upon a burning ship, or waiting to be engulfed with a scuttled one. But notwith- 429
Page 430
50 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER standing this hard character they were ready to ascribe to us, they vied with each other in showing us every courtesy in their power, and the ladies in particular were well pleased when they could secure the attendance of a grey uniform to escort them on their tour of inspection. Of a truth there are some curious phases in human nature. The following day we were the recipients of some more tan- gible proof of the goodwill with which the residents of Melbourne regarded us. Each of our officers received a railroad pass to go and return from Sandridge to Melbourne on the Hobson Bay Railroad, so long as we remained in port. Invitations to dinners and balls poured in from all sides, and every one was particular to mention that he felt the warmest sympathy for the Confederate cause. All this was agreeable enough if one did not care to examine too closely into the sincerity of these friendly demonstrations, and after ninety days at sea, it was pleasant to see the gay groups of women upon our decks, but the Shenandoah had come there to refit, not to be exhibited as a curiosity, and this continual crush and whirl of visitors put an effectual check to the real business in hand; con- sequently, when the first excitement had in a measure subsided, we were obliged to close our doors, and hang out a most inhospitable and peremptory "not at home" to all callers. This prohibition caused considerable heart-burnings, but necessity knows no law, and upon the whole, our popularity did not suffer. Whenever and wherever an officer appeared on shore, he was forthwith surrounded by a little conclave of sympathetic admirers, and had we accepted a tithe of the invitations we received to indulge in spirituous com- forts, we should all of us, from the captain down to the toughest old shellback in the forecastle, have been shockingly inebriated during the whole period of our sojourn. But, after all, that tarry in Melbourne was one of the bright reminiscences of our adventurous cruise round the world. I do 430
Page 431
THE SHENANDOAH; OK THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 51 not suppose so much hospitality ever was or ever will be shown to another ship in that port, and there were few if any who sailed in the Shenandoah, who will not carry to their graves many pleasant memories of the days they spent on the shores of Australia. It must not be supposed, however, that the entire population favored us, either secretly or openly. There was a strong party who firmly adhered to the cause of the United States, and these looked upon us as contumacious rebels, seeking to overthrow, by the most unjustifiable and atrocious means, a generous and benefi- cent government; and could they have retaliated upon us some of the depredations we had committed upon their merchant marine, our gallant ship would certainly have proceeded no further. Ere many days we received from a friendly source, a hint that a plot was on foot to destroy the Shenandoah by means of torpedoes, and from that time forward three officers were constantly on watch at the same time, to prevent any suspicious looking boat or object from approaching. In the night time, if a boat was discovered in our vicinity, she was hailed three times, and then if a satisfactory answer was not received, our orders were peremptory to fire into her; but we were fortunately never driven to this extremity. Scarcely a night passed that there were not craft of more than doubtful character flitting around us; but at the first hail they either pulled off or rendered such an account of themselves as we were content to accept. Hundreds of men made application to join us here, but as we had no right to ship any in a neutral port, all were denied, reluc- tantly, as will be readily imagined when it is remembered how much we desired to augment our numbers. One day, I remember, an old lady came aboard with her little son. She was a Southern woman, she said, and her boy had been born in the sunny South, and she desired Captain Waddell to take him as the only contribution she had to offer to her country, and 481
Page 432
52 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER educate him for the service. It was hard to deny such a request made in such a way, but it had to be done, and the woman with her little rebel went her way, sorrowful and disappointed. On the 28th quite an accident occurred. A party consisting of a lady and two gentlemen were coming off in a sail-boat to visit us. The wind was blowing strong, and just as they had rounded our ster n the boat capsized. Another boat chanced to be in the immediate vicinity, and fortunately all were rescued, having sus- tained no more serious damage than a thorough drenching in salt water, and a very considerable fright. The gentlemen, notwith- standing their saturated garments, came on board, but the lady would not make the venture in her drooping crinoline, and returned to the shore, in a decided pet at the accident which had prevented her from inspecting the cruiser. The next day was Sunday, the grand gala-day of the week in Melbourne. We anticipated a crowded ship fore and aft, and were not disappointed. The crowd commenced coming about nine o'clock in the morning, and continued to pour in and out in an endless stream until five in the afternoon. More than seven thousand peo- ple passed over the railroad from Melbourne to Sandridge, en route for the Shenandoah, that day, besides hundreds of others who came by other modes of conveyance. Our ship was simply packed with men and women from top to bottom the live-long day, and many were prevented by the pressure, from getting on board. Indeed, so great was the curiosity we ex- cited, that had we been content to stay for six months in Mel- bourne, and charged an admission fee of one dollar to visitors, I believe we could have paid a large instalment upon the Confed- erate debt. It had been determined to make that day the last of our recep- tions, as it was imperative to proceed with our refitting. A gang of caulkers were procured and went to work upon our decks with k 482
Page 433
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 53 pitch and oakum, and preparations were hurried forward to remove from the ship her stores and such ponderous furniture as could be readily gotten out to lessen her draught preparatory to placing her upon the slip, where her propeller could be inspected. A couple of lighters were hauled alongside, and into them were hoisted such articles as we'desired to be rid of for the present, and this accomplished we proceeded to the slip, where we remained for ten days, though the work was expedited as rapidly as possible, alternate gangs of men working day and night. The work was nearly completed, when an order came from the Governor to seize the ship, a rumor having been widely circulated and believed, that we had a number of men on board, intending to take them to sea and enlist them, in violation of the well-established rules of international law. His Excellency dispatched a force of about one hundred armed men, about half of whom belonged to the regular city police, and the rest were of the Royal Artillery, to enforce his order, but it is much easier to direct a party of land-lubbers to seize an armed vessel than for them to execute the mandate. Captain Waddell peremptorily refused to permit his ship to be searched, or one of the Governor's men to come on board, and in doing this, he simply stood upon his rights and dignity as the com- mander of a cruiser, it being contrary to all precedent to search a man-of-war for any purpose. He also wrote to the Governor, in- forming him that if the ship was not released within twenty-four hours he should pay off his crew, return to England with his officers and report the outrage to his own and the English government. An officer was dispatched with this missive, which had the de- sired effect. The following day, the police and artillery were withdrawn and we were formally notified that we were at liberty to proceed to sea whenever we desired. 433
Page 434
54 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER As an offset to this untoward little episode, an invitation came the same evening from Ballarat, for our officers to attend a hall, given in their honor by a Mr. Brayton, formerly a resident of New York but then one of the largest mining speculators of that auri- ferous neighbor of Melbourne. The city of Ballarat is about forty miles distant from the last named place, with which it is connected by a railway. Almost the whole of the area it occupies, has been so thoroughly perforated and undermined by shafts, sunk in pursuit of the precious ore, that if the whole town tumbled through, some fine day, it would be no mat- ter of especial surprise to any one. The invitation came most opportunely. After our little diplo- matic escapade with the authorities we were in the mood for some- thing in the legitimate merry-making line, and it was unanimously accepted. As the afternoon waned, each representative of the Confeder- acy, dressed in his best gala trim, sallied forth, and after a pleasant railway ride of about two hours' duration, we landed at Ballarat in safety, and took our way to Craig's Hotel, a most admirably con- ducted hostel, where the entertainment was to be given. It was decidedly a recherche affair. The wealth, beauty, and fashion of Ballarat were out in full force, fully intent upon idoliz- ing and doing honor to a few of the unpretending supporters of a young Government battling for existence with the lusty giant of the Western world. Every attention that kindness and courtesy could suggest was shown us, and more than one heart beat quicker at such convincing evidence of the existence of sympathy in this country of the Antipodes, for the service in which we were engaged. Many a grey uniform coat lost its gilt buttons that night, but we saw them again ere we bade a final adieu to Australia, suspended from watchguards depending from the necks of bright-eyed women, 434
Page 435
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 55 and we appreciated the compliment thus paid, not to us, but to our country. God bless the gentle women of Melbourne and Ballarat! They are remembered gratefully by the officers of the renowned ship whose official history was so brief but so brilliant. From that time forward until the end of our sojourn in Aus- tralia, it was little else than one continuous fete. Every place of public amusement was not only open to us, but our presence was earnestly solicited by the managers thereof, probably because we were curiosities, and drew well. Balls, soirees, and receptions fol- lowed in such rapid succession that the memory of one was lost in another, and, in brief, we were so persistently and continually lion- ized that we were in serious danger of becoming vain, and taking the glory to ourselves instead of placing it to the credit of the cause for which we labored. Occasionally there was a little break in this delightful round of pleasures. Once I recall, a jovial party had assembled at Scott's, one of the principal hotels of Melbourne, where, if there was not a feast of reason, there was an immense flow of soul. There were perhaps fifteen or twenty collected in the large parlor, and among them a few of the officers of our ship, who were indulging in an occasional patriotic toast. We were just sitting down to a sumptuous repast when an in- dividual entered, invited himself to join us, and forthwith com- menced a tirade upon rebels and the Southern Confederacy, making use of such language as gentlemen seldom submit to in silence. He had not proceeded in this manner many minutes ere our assistant surgeon sprang to his feet, and dealt him a blow between the eyes that laid him sprawling. In another instant the fight was general; glasses and decanters were diverted from their legitimate use, and turned into missiles of offence; knives were drawn, and one or two shots were fired, but fortunately without any serious 435
Page 436
56 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER resuts, though for a few moments there was such a scene of excite- ment and confusion as I have seldom witnessed; but the Shenan- doah men were victorious, drove their antagonists from the field, and then marched off to the theatre in a body, to conclude the even- ing in a less exhilarating pastime. Our repairs were at length effected, and by the aid of a steam- tug, we left the slip amid the cheers of quite a concourse who had assembled to see us off, and ships were saluting in every direction as we moved along toward our former anchorage. Before reaching it, we hauled alongside the John Frazer, a merchant ship from Liverpool, and took in three hundred tons of coal, which, with the four hundred we already had on board, gave us an ample supply for our contemplated cruise. On the morning of the 17th of February, the steamship Great Britain arrived from England with passengers, and some astonish- ment was felt on board when they recognized, as some of them did, their old acquaintance, the Sea King, which should have been, ac- cording to the clearance papers she received from the London Cus- tom House, paddling peacefully on toward Bombay, at anchor there off Melbourne, transformed into a Confederate cruiser. The next morning about four o'clock we hove up our anchor and stood out to sea. CHAPTER VI FROM MELBOURNE TO ASCENSION ISLAND A SURPRISE awaited us upon getting fairly outside. Our Zjk ship's company had received a mysterious addition of JL .m. forty-five men, who now made their appearance from every conceivable place where a human being could con- ceal himself from vigilant eyes. Fourteen of the number crept out of the bowsprit, which was of iron and hollow, where they had come 436
Page 437
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 57 very near ending their existence by suffocation; twenty more turned out of some water-tanks which were dry; another detachment was unearthed from the lower hold, and at last the whole number of stowaways were mustered forward, and word was passed to the Captain to learn his pleasure concerning them. Personally, I felt a good deal of annoyance over the affair, as it had been my watch a part of the preceding night, and strict orders had been given to prevent any sailors from coming on board except our own, as we were far from wishing to complicate ourselves in any way with the English Government. How such a number of men could have gained our decks unseen was a mystery to me then and is still; but there they were, and the question now was, how to dispose of them. Captain Waddell soon made his appearance, not in the best of humor, and without any circumlocution demanded of our new re- cruits to what country they belonged and for what purpose they were there. The old sea-dogs chuckled, rolled over their tobacco, hitched up their trousers, and with one accord, protested that they were natives of the Southern Confederacy, and had come on board thus surreptitiously for the purpose of joining us. There was something absolutely refreshing in the effrontery with which that motley orew had first stolen on board, at the mo- ment of our leaving port, and then claimed the privilege of remain- ing, on the ground that they were our countrymen. I verily be- lieve half the nations of the earth had contributed to this proposed accession to our numbers, but sailors are genuine cosmopolitans, and, as a general thing, change their nationalities as readily as they do their names; besides, we really needed their assistance, and as they had come through no connivance of ours, we determined to consider it providential, and they were all enlisted. A few who were 437
Page 438
58 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER not seamen, we made available as marines. Good men and true they proved, and very useful before our cruise was ended. We now laid our course for New Zealand, where we hoped to fall in with a Yankee whaler or two, but after cruising unsuccess- fully for several days, we steered to the northward, and ere long sighted Drummond's Island, one of the South Pacific group, some- what of a favorite resort of whalers, for the purpose of procuring water and fruit. Drummond's Island is about twenty miles in circumference and lies very near the equator. As seen from the sea, its general appearance is beautiful in the extreme, and with every variety of tropical fruit growing spontaneously on its surface, and a lovely climate, tempered as it is by the breath of the great Southern Ocean, it seems too fair a spot to be the inheritance of the miserable race of savages who inhabit it. Until very recently these natives have numbered cannibalism among their accomplishments, conscien- tiously devouring every one whom they captured or slew in battle, and they are still among the most ferocious and degraded of the Polynesians. When about eight miles distant from the Island, upon which we were bearing down under steam, we discovered a boat making towards us, and in about two hours it was alongside. It contained three natives, all perfectly naked and frightfully tattooed, who brought with them an abundance of fish and fruit, which they exchanged with us for tobacco, the only article of mer- chandise for which they seemed disposed to barter. We had on board an old sailor, who had visited the Island years before in an American whaler, and had acquired sufficient knowl- edge of their language to converse with them after a fashion. Through him we inquired of them if any whalers had been there lately, and learned that there had not within the last three months. 438
Page 439
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 59 As there seemed no immediate prospect of capturing a prize in that vicinity, we got under way again, greatly to the astonishment of our cannibal friends, who were evidently at a loss to understand by what process we moved through the water with no sail set, or through the agency of any other motive power that they could dis- cover. Cautiously they paddled in our wake, curiously scanning the troubled waters, beneath which the propeller was revolving, ap- parently with the view of studying out the mystery of the strange craft that had visited their seas, until the engineer, at a hint from the officer of the deck, performed a stirring solo upon his steam whistle, when, with every appearance of consternation, they took to their paddles, and only paused when they had placed a safe dis- tance between themselves and the screaming monster. Before sundown the first of the Cannibal Islands had faded in the distance, and having let our steam go down, we glided along with all sail set before the southeast trade winds, at about seven knots an hour. The next afternoon, just before the sun disappeared below the horizon, we could discern a black speck far off to the northward. Ere long the man at the mast-head reported it to be a sail standing towards us, and before dark we brought her to by a blank cartridge from our twelve-pounder. An officer was dispatched on board to ascertain her nationality, and returning, reported her to be the schooner P. Fieri, of Honolulu, on a trading expedition among the islands for cocoanut oil, which is almost their sole article of mer- chandise. This much of the boarding officer's report was of no especial interest, but he added an addendum that was more to the purpose. The Honolulu craft brought the gratifying intelligence that five Yankee whalers were lying at anchor off Ascension Island, so thither we steered, but made a slight detour on the way to visit Strong's Island, where whalers not unfrequently put in. 439
Page 440
60 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER This island is situated about five hundred miles to the north- ward of Drummond's, and is in reality a most charming spot, so far as its physical features go. Like the one we had lately left, it produces spontaneously, all the luscious fruits of the tropical zone, and like that, also, is the abiding place of a similar degraded race, but one remove, if any, from cannibalism, the lowest depth to which humanity can fall. About six o'clock on the afternoon of the 31st of March, we had the island on our starboard beam, and field and spy-glasses were in requisition to discover whether any sail flying the United States flag were in sight. Steaming slowly on, we passed round the southern extremity of this ocean emerald, quite near enough to observe all its distinctive features. Plainly visible from our deck were the curious, bower- like houses where the natives shelter themselves from the torrid heat of an almost vertical sun; and stretching away behind them were little enclosures wherein were carried on their rude agricul- tural operations. Viewed from the distance that we were, it seemed a very Ar- cadia, where man might forget the cares and turmoils of the busy world, with which the Anglo Saxon race are so characteristically familiar, and taste for himself the delights of the old pastoral days of which the poet tells us. But here, as elsewhere, "distance lent enchantment to the view," and a closer inspection would have re- vealed, not pastoral simplicity, but all the revolting practices of savage tribes, sunk in unregenerate barbarism. It was dark ere we had concluded our semi-circumnavigation of the island, and as the tropical night closed around us, we could see the natives on the shore with torches in their hands, which they waved to and fro, as if to warn us of some unforeseen danger toward which we were hurrying. 440
Page 441
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 61 There being no sail in sight we resumed our course toward As- cension Island under steam, and on the morning of April 1st, sighted land looming up several hundred feet above the level of the sea. A dense fog soon rested over the water, and fearing shoals or reefs, we stopped our engine and lay to for clearer weather. About eight o'clock the sun shone out bright and clear, the fog slowly lifted, then gradually dispersed, and exposed to our view Ascension Island on our port bow. We immediately got up steam and stood in, and before ten o'clock a boat was observed com- ing out from a point of land, making directly towards us, and it was soon alongside. It proved to be a boat belonging to one of four ships, all of them with the Star Spangled Banner flying from their peaks, which we could now discern lying at anchor in a beautiful little bay, feeling secure, no doubt, as they would have done in Boston Harbor. The boat contained, among its other occupants an Englishman, who had been wrecked on the island ten years before. I could scarcely conceive a more degraded looking object. He had adopted, perforce, no doubt, the habits of the Islanders; his body was tat- tooed with all manner of fantastic designs, and he spoke his mother tongue with hesitation and difficulty. He had married a native woman, who had borne him two children, one of whom was still living; and so far as I could learn, he was treated with kindness and considerable consideration by the savages among whom his lot had been cast, but the torrid climate, with unnatural and perhaps oftentimes disgusting food, had made sad inroads upon a naturally robust constitution, and it was plain to see that he was descending by slow but sure stages to the grave. It appeared, from the statement of our visitors, that our ship had been mistaken by the Yankees for some vessel engaged in a coast survey, and they had good-naturedly sent out a boat with this old Englishman to pilot us safely in. Thus far we had displayed no 441
Page 442
62 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER bunting, and, as would have been naturally expected, one of the first questions our pilot asked on coming on board, was in regard to our nationality. Not knowing in what direction his sympathies might lie, after hobnobbing as he had undoubtedly been for some days past with the crews of the United States vessels in the harbor, and fearing, in the event of his entertaining hostile sentiments, that he would run us ashore, as he might easily have done, upon a coast with which none of us were familiar, we informed him that the Shenandoah was an American man-of-war, and requested him to take us in and anchor us near the other vessels, which he readily consented to do in consideration of the sum of thirty dollars. He favored us with some tough old yarns touching his island experience, and if his story was to be believed, he had been often in imminent peril of life and limb from the savages, who, from first considering him in the light of material for a substantial entertain- ment, had at last come to regard him as a friend, and respect him as a being of superior endowments; but I doubt if anything could have induced him to return to civilized life, and indeed he was then thoroughly unfitted for it. In the course of an hour we had ranged up within a mile of the ships, all of which we had discovered were whalers, and dropped anchor. Four boats were then lowered and manned with sailors carrying side arms and revolvers, with two officers in each boat, and when all was in readiness a blank cartridge was fired and the Con- federate flag run up. Our pilot was evidently mystified not a little at these proceed- ings. He stood for a few moments watching the receding boats, then turned his eyes aloft, curiously scanning the, to him, strange bunting that streamed out to the breeze, and finally, turning to the officer of the deck, he asked what flag that was, why we fired that 442
Page 443
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 63 gun, and why those boats, filled with armed men, were putting off toward the whalers. "All answered in a word, my hearty," responded the individual addressed. "Those four ships are prizes to the Confederate Gov- ernment." "And what the is the Confederate Government?" queried the old salt, in unaffected astonishment. "The best and biggest half of what was the United States of America. The Yankees didn't sail the Government ship to suit us, so we cut adrift and started on our own hook." "The d—1! What are you going to do with your prizes?" "Set them on fire by and by, after we have taken what we want out of them." "Well, you and the Yankees must settle that business to suit yourselves. If I had known what you were up to, maybe I should not have piloted you in, for I don't like to see a bonfire made of a good ship." In the course of an hour our boats were seen returning, bring- ing with them the first and second mates of the captured whalers. The Captains were not on board, having gone on shore that morn- ing for a merry-making, little dreaming what was in store for their fleet. We at once commenced bringing such articles as we required from the prizes, and about five o'clock in the afternoon we saw a boat putting off from the shore, which we were notified contained the festive captains. Their astonishment may perhaps be imagined when they dis- covered a cruiser in that remote sea, bearing the Confederate flag. For a moment they rested on their oars as though undetermined what to do, and then put about and pulled toward the shore; but 443
Page 444
64 THE SHENANDOAH; OK THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER escape was not so easy. A boat was instanty dispatched in pursuit, and at the expiration of a very brief period, we had the four gentle- men on board, where their amazement was in no wise diminished in finding their officers and crews in single irons. They bore their misfortunes, however, with as good a grace as could be expected. A prize crew and an officer was then sent on board of each ship to take charge of it, as it was not intended to destroy them for a day or two, or at least until we had secured such stores from them as we required. The names of the vessels captured off Ascension Island were as follows: the Edward Cary of San Francisco, the Hector of New Bedford, the Pearl of New London, and the Harvest that tried to hail from tbe port of Honolulu, but having no bill of transfer she was condemned with the rest. After securing what we desired from the prizes, and giving the officers and men an opportunity of procuring such personal effects as they desired to save, the natives were allowed to go on board and ransack the doomed vessels to their heart's content. Such a rare occasion for wholesale plundering had never occurred before, and was not likely to again, and they made the most of it. All day long they swarmed over the vessels, like driver ants upon a dead car- case, and their canoes were constantly passing to and fro, laden with ships' bread, tobacco, bits of iron, harpoons and whaling lines, and all sorts of odds and ends, until they were fairly surfeited with plundering. On the 3d of April the work of destruction commenced. The Pearl was the first one fired, but ere the flames had gained much headway the Hector and the Edward Cary were also blazing, and the three sent forth a lurid glare which lighted up, like the eruption of a volcano, the quiet bay whose waters were disturbed by scarce a 444
Page 445
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 65 ripple, and the tropical shore far inland, with its strange vegetation and grotesque humanity; while on the strand were scattered amazed groups of natives wildly gesticulating, and evidently unable to com- prehend why all this wealth should be thus ruthlessly destroyed. The Harvest still remained intact, as she had not contributed her quota to our stores, but on the 10th she was hauled alongside, and we commenced transferring from her such articles as were suited to our need. The next day I was specially detailed to go on shore for the purpose of formally inviting his Cannibal majesty to visit us. As it was a state occasion, I proceeded in the Captain's gig with six good men well armed, and the old pilot to act as interpreter. The voyage was quickly accomplished, but as we neared the beach a crowd of natives rushed down to meet us, armed with stones, which they hurl almost with the precision of a rifle-ball, and swords manufactured from sharks' teeth, the edges of which are dipped in a subtle poison that leaves certain death in any wounds they inflict. The appearance of this heathenish multitude was anything but con- ciliatory, and I gathered from their manner and gesticulations that they were apprehensive we had come to reclaim all or a portion of the plunder they had taken from the whalers, and were disposed to stand upon the well-known maxim that "possession is nine points of the law," and defend their booty to the last. A few words from the interpreter explained the real object of our visit, and when they learned it was to do honor to their king that we had come, their unfriendly demonstrations subsided, though there were still two or three ferocious looking villains who eyed us- askance, and I have no doubt considered what sort of roasts or bar- becues we would probably make. His majesty was not in his customary abiding-place, a little bamboo hut near the beach, barely large enough to contain four 445
Page 446
66 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER persons, but at a sort of Government House farther inland, where some sort of festivity was in progress. Two or three of his chiefs volunteered to escort me thither, and leaving my men in the boat and accompanied by the interpreter, I set forth for the first time in my life to pay a visit to royalty. It was more of a walk than I had anticipated, and the way led over some steep, rugged ascents, hard enough to climb under that broiling sun, but there was much to amuse me in observing the manners and habits of this strange peo- ple, and in gaining a better insight than I had before been able to do, into their domestic economy. Once, in passing a native hut, I observed a dog with his brains beaten out, but still retaining his skin and entrails, lying by the side of a rude oven, all ready prepared for his reception, and when I re- turned, a few hours later, a woman sat before the still smouldering embers gnawing the hind leg of the animal, to which the hair still adhered. In process of time I arrived at the place where the king was holding his temporary court. It was a rude, extensive building, built of bamboo, with a high peaked roof and eaves which extended nearly to the ground, and in it were assembled some three hundred of the most hideous looking beings it was ever my fortune to behold. The most of them were armed like those we had met on the beach with stones, and bone swords, though a few of them had spears, and I am free to confess to feeling anything but comfortable, as I stood in the presence of that fiendish-looking multitude, with no attendant save the demoralized Englishman who had perhaps degenerated into a worse savage than any of them. But it was too late to turn back, even had I been disposed to do so, and assuming as nonchalant an air as possible, and feeling to see that my revolver was convenient to my hand I entered the building. His majesty was seated on a platform raised a few inches above the floor, and on my entrance arose to meet me. He was a miser- 446
Page 447
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 67 able little savage scarcely more than five feet high, naked with the exception of a tappa made of grass, worn about his waist and smeared from head to foot with cocoanut oil. Like most of his followers, he wore thrust through a hole made in the lobe of his ear for the purpose, a huge misshapen tobacco pipe, an arrangement which, however convenient, did not add in the least to his personal appearance. A number of his subjects were employed in making gorwa, a kind of intoxicating beverage manufactured from roots crushed be- tween stones, and afterwards left to ferment; an industrial pursuit upon which he seemed to look with peculiar favor. The old pilot presented me in due form, and I at once made known my errand. The King listened, looked round distrustfully a few moments, and showed himself a true diplomat, by asking by way of answer to see my sword and revolver. Having examined these to his heart's content and taken another deliberate survey of his followers, probably querying with himself meanwhile, whether they would be able to protect him against one desperate Confeder- ate, should he feel disposed to make a prize of him, he advanced another step in our negotiations, and invited me to take a drink, and as this was a branch of diplomacy in which I had had some practice, I complied and touched my lips to the cocoanut cup containing the vilest smelling, most nauseous compound upon which a man ever attempted to get "salubrious." These formal points of court etiquette disposed of, we returned to the real business in hand, and after a little persuasion, my royal host condescended to favor me with his company, but to effectually guard himself against any machinations that might be meditated against his peace and dignity, he gave his ugly person a fresh coat- ing of cocoanut oil, and announced himself in readiness for the pro- posed excursion. Back to the beach we wended our way, the King and a few of 447
Page 448
68 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER his chiefs, and my insignificant self taking the lead, and the whole vagabond colony following at our heels. On reaching the shore, the King was accommodated with the seat of honor in the boat, while I placed myself out of olfactory range of the peculiar perfumes belonging to him and his retinue, and ordered the men to give way. As we glided seaward at least a hundred boats put off and followed in our wake, each containing from three to five natives, and all keeping at a respectful distance behind, out of deference to the great man who preceded them. On reaching the ship, Captain Waddell and his first lieutenant received his copper-colored majesty with appropriate honors, and, after a brief inspection, conducted him to the cabin, where such a collation as our barbarous tastes could furnish, was set forth for his entertainment; but the old reprobate turned up his nose at the wine, and I strongly suspect a cold roast Confederate would have been more to his liking than the unpretending viands of our steward. But everything passed off harmoniously, and after a couple of hours' visit, during which none of his followers had attempted to come on board, though they remained close around the ship in their canoes, he took his departure, well laden with presents of old muskets, powder, small shot, and tobacco, upon excellent terms with himself and us. 3f ^ During the two or three days that followed, our men were al- lowed to go on shore, in limited detachments at a time, and each was furnished with a small quantity of tobacco, the standing circulating medium at Ascension, and I dare say they enjoyed themselves; at all events a pretty fair percentage of them managed to return at least three sheets in the wind on gonna, unless they found a better beverage, which was not unlikely, that had been smuggled ashore from one of the whalers. 448
Page 449
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 69 There is one place of peculiar interest on this Island. It is the remains of an old fortification, in regard to which there is not even a tradition among the natives. "The oldest inhabitant" does not profess to have even an idea of when or by whom it was built; but it is certainly a relic of considerable antiquity, and whoever erected it had no contemptible knowledge of the application of mechanical powers. Another curious circumstance is, that it is mostly composed of huge blocks of stone, some of them four or five feet square, which must have been brought from some other locality, as nothing like them is found in any other part of the island. The generally re- ceived opinion among seamen is, that it was built by some of the ancient buccaneers as a repository for their ill-gotten gains, and a place of retreat in time of danger. On the morning of the 13th of April we paroled all the prison- ers we had on board, and having removed what we desired from the Harvest, we set her on fire. The prisoners seemed to prefer being left on shore to accompanying us on our long and uncertain voyage, so after providing them with an abundance of everything in the way of ship stores, arms, and ammunition, besides their personal effects, we bade them good-by. I should mention that this island is provided with a missionary, unexceptionable in faith and practice I should infer, as he hailed from the goodly Commonwealth of Massachusetts, so it was fair to presume that the morals of our discomfited foes would be well cared for during their stay in his diocese. The reverend gentleman did not pay his respects to us, but he doubtless considered us unregenerate heathen, not worth saving, if indeed divine mercy was for such as we. The same afternoon we got up our anchor and once more pro- ceeded to sea, taking with us a number of fresh recruits who had joined us from the last prizes. 449
Page 450
70 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER CHAPTER VII FROM ASCENSION ISLAND TO THE OCHOTSK SEA THE old pilot accompanied us outside, taking us out safely as he had taken us in, and when a good offing was obtained, he wished us a pleasant cruise, went over the side into his little boat, and we saw him no more. We then turned our prow northward and set forth to cruise between San Francisco and Hong Kong, trusting to intercept a few of the rich merchantmen trading to those important ports. The first of May found us fairly in the track of these traders, and the lookouts mounted to their respective perches with renewed alacrity, and swept the sea with watchful eyes, but all to no purpose. It seemed as though the merchantmen of whom we were in pursuit, must have had a premonition of our coming; at all events, they kept out of sight, and after several days' fruitless cruising, pass- ing and repassing leagues of that great highway for ships, we con- cluded to stand to the northward once more. We had not had a glimpse of a sail since leaving Ascension. As might have been expected, this state of inactivity resulted in a dull and dissatisfied condition of things on board the Shenan- doah, but on a cruiser, one constantly alternates between a life of stirring excitement and absolute stupidity. When in pursuit of a prize, all is life and animation. The rig- ging is filled with eager, excited faces, spy-glasses pass from hand to hand, orders are hurriedly given and instantly obeyed, and until the capture is effected, and the ship disposed of, there is little rest for any one. Then follows, perhaps, weeks of idleness, with noth- ing to break the tedious monotony. The watches turn out and in, yawning, the lookouts mount aloft, and sleepily throw a glance over the broad expanse of water,—at seven bells, the master comes up with his sextant, to "take the sun," and work out the position of 450
Page 451
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 71 the ship, with his logarithms,—in the forecastle, tough yarns are spun by solemn visaged old sea-dogs, and at night perhaps a violin or banjo furnishes entertainment for a little knot; but with every expedient that can be resorted to, and the working of the ship, a light labor with so many hands to assist in it, the time drags wearily, and if one has not the resource of some mental occupation, it falls, in the course of time just short of unendurable. On the morning of the 16th, the sun arose from a sky as clear and beautiful as is ever seen in these latitudes, where the Storm Spirits comparatively seldom assemble in their might, to demon- strate to man the power of Infinity, and his own weakness. The sea was slightly ruffled by a light breeze from the north- ward and westward, and we were gliding along on a bowline at the rate of five or six knots an hour, but ere night closed in, some changes began to be apparent in the face of the heavens, and the barometer gave unmistakable warning that a tempest of no ordin- ary fury was rapidly approaching. Before many hours it came howling down upon us, like a vengeful doom. Our good ship staggered before the first fierce gust of the hurricane, and careened over until the ends of her lower yards were drenched by the spray of the rising sea, but she righted almost immediately, shook the water from her strong wings, nodded her head as if in defiance of the storm, and was off like an arrow from a well-drawn bow. The next morning the gale was at its height, and we were scud- ding before it at the rate of eleven or twelve knots an hour, under close reefed foretop-sail and reefed foresail. Preventer braces were got aloft, hatches battened down, and so far as possible everything was done to insure our safety. Our old boatswain, a veteran of the British navy, who for twenty years had done battle with the elements in every part of the 451
Page 452
?2 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER world, exerted himself to his utmost, and on an occasion like this, there was no better man; he was a host of himself. Still the storm continued with unabated violence, and ere long, our maintop-sail, with a report like a shotted gun, broke from the leech-ropes, and flew away before the breath of the tornado, like a boy's kite. The officer of the deck immediately ordered the maintop-men aloft to secure such remnants of the sail as were still attached to the yards, beating the air like gigantic whips, as if to drive away any who might attempt to repair the disaster; but a new sail had to be bent, and that right speedily, desperate as the duty seemed. For a little time the scene was absolutely terrific. Slowly and painfully the sailors toiled up the shrouds, sometimes blown against them and held there with a force that rendered further progress for the time impossible. Coolly but cautiously they made their way out upon the yard that anon pointed at an abrupt angle to the heavens, and the next instant levelled its great finger at the depths below, and proceeded with consummate skill and courage to remove what remained of the tattered sail. In an inconceivably brief period the new sail was in its place, secured and sheeted home, and was then close-reefed by means of the revolving yard. Scarcely was this accomplished when a heavy sea came on board, filling the deck to the waist, and for the second time since setting sail from Madeira, the ports had to be knocked out, in or- der to free ourselves from the tremendous weight of waters. Every one on board was literally drenched, and we had just rid the decks of that sea when another came rolling over us, carry- ing away with it one man, who, strange to relate, was the next moment dashed on board again by another sea, terribly frightened but otherwise uninjured. 452
Page 453
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 73 The ship now began, to roll so heavily that the royal yards were sent down on deck and secured in the fore, main, and mizzen rig- ging. On, on we rushed, now rising to the summit of a mountain wave, then darting with almost the velocity of light down the dark, shining declivity, while behind us the sea reared its crested head, threatening to engulf us at once and forever. The gale continued for twelve hours, carrying us more than a hundred miles out of our course. Thousands of right whale birds, as they are known among whalers, from being always found in the vicinity of the marine monster bearing that cognomen, were hovering over the ship, as though speculating upon the position of affairs, and wondering whether we would be able to weather the tempest. I know not why it is, but in proportion as danger menaces on shipboard, sailors habitually grow profane, and, during the con- tinuance of that gale, which, all things considered, I think was about the most severe of any I ever encountered, an amount of swearing was done that I never heard equalled in the same length of time. Toward night the wind abated and was succeeded by a rain which literally poured down in streams, wetting to the skin in a moment, every one who was exposed to it; but it did us the good service of beating down the tremendous sea that was running, and the next day we were again shaping our course for the Amphitrite Straits, which form the entrance to the Ochotsk Sea, and were so named in honor of the English man-of-war by whom they were discovered. Many birds were still following us, picking up anything that was thrown overboard from the vessel; but some of the feathered tribe with which we had been familiar for some weeks had left us, and strange ones had taken their places. The albatross we had 453
Page 454
74 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CKUISEK not seen since crossing the equator, and I believe he seldom extends his travels north of the line. We were now bound for those icy regions bordering on the Arctic circle, trusting to make a raid upon the United States whaling fleet that would enrich ourselves and inflict a heavy blow upon the enemy. I do not suppose there were half a dozen men on board, who, of their own accord, would have selected that cruising ground, not- withstanding the inducements it offered; but our orders were to proceed thither, and nothing short of the probable destruction of the ship would have been regarded as an adequate excuse for not carrying them into effect. On the 20th of May, we saw snow for the first time, in more than a year, and cold and cheerless enough it seemed, after our long sojourn in the tropics. Chests and clothes-bags were ran- sacked for woollen underclothing, and heavy pea-jackets and over- coats were in requisition throughout the entire ship's company, the majority of whom wished we were heading for warmer seas. The next day we got up steam for the purpose of passing the Amphitrite Straits, and before nightfall, the lofty, snow-clad mountains of Kamtschatka, as bleak and barren as the imagination could picture, were towering upon the starboard bow. The winds sweeping down from these frozen regions, struck to the very marrow, and a cold, disagreeable fog seemed to hang perpetually over the water, while the blink of field ice in more than one direction warned us of our proximity to the Arctic circle. About noon the lookout reported a sail in sight, but it was sometime ere any one else could distinguish it, but before three o'clock, she was distinctly made out standing toward us, and we made more sail to come up with her. 454
Page 455
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 75 A long stretch of field ice, however, intervened between us and the stranger, which we were obliged to partially circumnavi- gate, ere we could reach her. We stood along close by the western margin of the field ice, until we rounded its northern point, when we showed the Russian ensign, as the most appropriate one for a vessel of our appearance to fly in those high latitudes, to which she responded by running up the Stars and Stripes. The Russian flag was immediately lowered, and in the place of it we showed the Confederate Stars and Bars, and a blank car- tridge from our twelve pounder brought her to. An officer was then dispatched on board, who informed the Captain that his vessel was a prize to the Confederate States' steamer Shenandoah, to which he must at once proceed with his papers. The skipper looked at him for a moment, scratched his head, laid in a fresh chew of tobacco, and then remarked as coolly as if giving the order to heave up his anchor, "Well, I s'pose I'm taken! but who on earth would have thought of seeing one of your South- ern privateers up here in the Ochotsk Sea. I have heard of some of the pranks you fellows have been playing, but I supposed I was out of your reach." "Why, the fact of the business is, Captain," replied the officer, facetiously, "we have entered into a treaty offensive and defensive with the whales, and are up here by special agreement to disperse their mortal enemies." "All right! my friend. I never grumble at anything I can't help, but the whales needn't owe me much of a grudge, for the Lord knows I haven't disturbed them this voyage, though I've done my part at blubber-hunting in years gone by. But it's cold talking here, come below and take something to warm your stomach, while I get my papers." 455
Page 456
76 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISEE In a little time the nonchalant old Captain announced himself in readiness, and in company with our officer, came on board the Shenandoah. Shortly after, the crew, numbering about thirty all told, were brought off in their own whale boats. They were of similar timber to their commander, and one of them remarked as he came over the side, that "he had not expected to take steam home, and to tell the truth he had just as lief trust to sail," but they accepted their change of fortune with general good humor, and even single irons and confinement in the top-gallant fore- castle did not seem to materially depress their spirits. Upon the whole, they were about as plucky and sailor-like a set of fellows as fell into our hands during the entire cruise. We remained near the prize all night, taking out such stores as suited our fancy. There was a quantity of liquor on board which the captain had brought along, with the view of trading for furs on the coast of Siberia. This part of the whaler's cargo was soon nosed out by our forecastle gentry, and before the officers knew what was going on, a cask had been broached and the greater part of one watch were about as gloriously drunk as men well can be. As soon as this was discovered, the inebriates were shut into the forecastle, and the more obstreperous placed in irons; but while this discipline was progressing, the rest got wind of the captured treasure, and by the time one detachment were secured, another were in condition to receive the same polite attention we had shown their fellows. In brief, I think it was the most general and stu- pendous spree I ever witnessed. There was not a dozen sober men on board the ship except the prisoners, and had these not been ironed it might have proved a dearly bought frolic. Some of the petty officers were as thoroughly inebriated as any of the men, and had to be confined in their quarters by sheer 456
Page 457
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 77 force. The carpenter, I recollect, twice burst out of his room, where we had attempted to imprison him, and finally we had to furnish old "Chips" with a pair of "bracelets," and tie him into his bunk to cool off. We never captured a prize that created so much excitement as this, and we never captured one of so little value. She had taken but a small quantity of oil, was a regular old tub, at least fifty years old, and, excepting the whiskey, had nothing in her of any consequence worth taking. We removed twenty-five barrels of the extract of corn, to be used in case of sickness, and then set the old hulk on fire. She was the Abigail, of New Bedford, commanded by Cap- tain Nye, a veteran whaleman, who gained the good will of our officers by his never-failing good humor under adverse circum- stances, and the shrewdness and tact he displayed upon all occa- sions. We then steered toward the coast of Siberia, the well-known place of banishment for Russian criminals. They remain on this coast during the entire winter, engaged in the collection of furs, the greater part of which go to the support of the Government at St. Petersburg. No one can imagine, unless he has actually looked upon these inhospitable shores, what sufferings and priva- tions these poor exiles endure. It was then the first of June. The thermometer stood fifteen degrees below the freezing point, and the ship from top to bottom was covered with ice; and if this was a specimen of a Siberian summer, some idea may be conceived of the severity of their winters, when, for long, dreary months no solar warmth loosens the frosty fetters that bind this God-forsaken region. On the 4th of June we were fairly jammed in the ice. On every side of us, as far as the eye could reach, extended the field ice; and, as the ponderous floes came together, the crushed and mangled di- 457
Page 458
78 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER bris rose up into huge mounds of crystal blocks, seemingly as im- movable and imperishable as the bluffs on shore. Indeed, it was impossible, while gazing off over the scene of wildness and desola- tion by which we were surrounded, to conceive the possibility of an avenue of escape opening through such barriers. I recalled to mind Dr. Kane's account of the war he waged for so many months in the polar seas; of his little brig, beset as our ship now was, and the ice ramparts strengthening day by day until they formed a mausoleum where she still reposed; and had the sea- son been farther advanced, I should have felt grave apprehensions for our safety. Not that I should have feared being frozen in for any great length of time in that latitude, but our ship had not been built to resist the rude shocks of Arctic ice, and as yet her powers of resistance had not been tested, consequently there was ground for fear that the tremendous pressure around her might result in serious consequences. But a woman's temper is not more capricious than the move- ments of the ice in these northern seas. The next day a strong breeze sprang up from the southward, and before nightfall there was open water all around us, and the vast fields by which we had been confined were broken up and rapidly drifting toward the ocean. We then laid our course toward Jonas Island, about two hun- dred miles distant and very near the centre of the Ochotsk Sea. This island is a favorite rendezvous for right whalers—a sort of marine caravansery, where they meet to talk over their luck, hold their "gams," and enjoy themselves generally. If we could reach it, the chances were ten to one of our falling in with a fleet of from fifteen to thirty sail, which could be captured without firing a shot; but the navigation was difficult, and, as I have said, our ship's ca- pacity to resist the shocks of the drifting ice had not as yet been satisfactorily tested, and we almost hesitated to make the experi- ment. 458
Page 459
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 79 That night we were jammed in the ice again, and as I lay in my berth, I could hear the huge blocks thundering and chafing against the side of the ship as though it would dash her in pieces. It was an anxious night to all on board. None of us were familiar with Arctic cruising, and consequently were to a great extent in* competent to judge of the imminence of the danger, but the hours of darkness wore away at last, without leaving us to mourn any serious accident. In a few places the copper had been chafed through, but this was about the greatest injury we had sustained, and soon after daylight the ice separated, through some unseen agency, leaving us free. But we had had enough of the route to Jonas Island, which may be a most desirable locality for whalemen and other amphibious animals who enjoy a temperature below zero, and have an affinity for ice-fields and fogs; but for my part, I would not spend six months thereabouts for all the leviathans that ever poured their oily treasures into the coffers of New Bedford. The plain truth was, we were running too much risk in taking our cruiser through this sort of navigation for which she was never intended, and we reluctantly abandoned the idea of reaching the grand headquarters of the Ochotsk Sea whaling fleet. We learned afterwards that had we persevered and succeeded, we should have made a splendid haul, but I, for one, do not regret it, for as the event proved, we did enough mischief that resulted in no good to any one, and much harm to many. I had taken occasion at leisure intervals to make such inquiries as I could without exciting suspicion as to my motives, of the first mate of our last prize, a staunch old sailor, true as steel to his own Government,- concerning the intricate navigation of Bering's Straits and the Arctic Sea beyond, where we knew there was a large whaling fleet upon which we would like to pounce, if the risk of getting there was not too great to counterbalance the good we might accomplish. 459
Page 460
80 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER The old fellow never dreamed that I had any other purpose than to satisfy a seamanlike curiosity, and took great pleasure in pointing out upon the charts the dangerous places, and in giving me a general idea of the difficulties to be encountered on a cruise in that direction. The information thus obtained I of course reported to our Captain, which increased his desire to have a look at that local- ity; but to have attempted the voyage without a competent pilot would have been foolhardy in the extreme. This want, however, was soon unexpectedly supplied. About this time the second mate of the Abigail began to express a desire to join us, and of course claimed to be a strong Southern sympa- thizer. He was a Baltimorean by birth, anything by profession, and a reprobate by nature. He had last shipped at San Francisco, where, I was informed by one of his shipmates, he had been hired to vote for Lincoln by a drink of whiskey, and he now proposed, after a little backing and filling, not only to cast in his lot with us, but to pilot the Shenandoah to the spot where the whaling fleet, which contained more than one vessel upon which he had served, was pur- suing its bold, laborious calling. It is always unpleasant, though sometimes necessary, to accept the services of the most disreputable of men, and as this was an opportunity which was not likely to occur again for securing a guide to the prize we sought, his overtures were received, and Thomas S. Manning was enrolled as ship's corporal, and at once entered upon the discharge of his duties. Having gone over to the Confederacy, he did nothing by halves, but set resolutely to work to induce as many as possible of his shipmates to follow his example, and several of them did so, not knowing, however, that he intended to conduct us to the ships that contained the friends and acquaintances with whom they had grown up from boyhood. Had they been aware of it, I do not be- lieve a man of them would have enlisted under our flag. 460
Page 461
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 81 The remainder of the Abigail's crew stood out resolutely against all inducements held out to them, and earnestly besought permission to land on the Siberian shore, from whence they imag- ined they could get off and join the Russian whaling fleet, cruising in the vicinity. To this, however, Captain Waddell would not assent, and they took the disappointment philosophically, as they did the rest of their misfortunes. The more we learned of the Abigail's crew the better we liked them, with the exception of the second mate, who, though he ren- dered us good service, we could not well help despising. The old Captain developed some new phase of Yankee eccen- tricity every day that amused us, if it did not raise him in our es- timation. Little by little it came out, partly from his own admis- sions and partly from the casual remarks of his officers and crew, that he was a thorough bred speculator in his own way. It was his custom, on preparing for a voyage, to lay in a quantity of cheap whiskey and second-hand clothing, which he retailed out, as oppor- tunity offered, to his ship's company, or to the savages with whom he came in contact in the course of his cruising, at such an advance on the first cost as would have frightened a Chatham Street Jew into serious apprehensions for the future well-being of his soul. He remarked rather gleefully to me, a day or two after the capture, that he guessed, after all, the loss of the old ship wouldn't swamp him. There was another ready for him at San Francisco as soon as he got out of our hands, and another cruise would set him all right. I strongly suspect the old sea-turtle he commanded was in- sured for about her full value, and, as luck seemed to be rather against him in the whaling line, that he was more than half pleased that we had furnished him with a good market for the vessel of 461
Page 462
82 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER which he was third owner, and a free passage back to the port where he calculated on securing a better one; but of course, I wish it under- stood that this is merely conjecture. We were now heading for the main land again, and soon saw it looming up in the distance. Large quantities of ice were drift- ing in all directions, and to save the copper from chafing, we were compelled to suspend mats made of ropes over the bows. Having cruised in the Ochotsk Sea from the 21st of May, until the 13th of June, and only capturing one prize, we determined to lay our course for Bering's Straits, Manning acting as pilot, and evincing a thorough competency for the position. We passed out through the same passage by which we had entered, and stood to the eastward with a moderate breeze from the southward. CHAPTER VIII our cruise in Bering's straits WE were favored with a fair wind, after losing sight of the Kamtschatkan coast, though the weather was raw and cold, and frequent fogs made navigation addition- ally hazardous. We passed to the southward of Bering's Island, and came very near going ashore on its neighbor, Copper Island, in a dense fog which lifted just in time to show us our danger, and enable us to avoid it. These islands are somewhat celebrated for the fur-bearing ani- mals, both land and marine, that abound on them and in their vicin- ity. There are several varieties of seal thereabouts, which are occa- sionally hunted by whalers when there is a scarcity of the larger game, for the capture of which they are especially fitted out, and some foxes and brown bears are found on the islands, whose peltries 462
Page 463
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 83 excite the cupidity of the sailors, when they have nothing better to occupy their attention. After a good passage of nine days, we sighted and stood towards Cape Thaddeus, on the coast of Asia. This Cape is situated on the opposite meridian to Greenwich, and is usually sighted by whalers for the purpose of regulating their chronometers. It was formerly a great whaling ground and is still much frequented by vessels in that trade. A week before, thirty sail were in the vicinity, and had our visit taken place at that time, the destruction of property would have been almost incalculable. On the 22nd of June, we sighted two ships, and steamed after the nearest, which was trying out oil, as we knew by the quantity of smoke, though she was at a considerable distance. On nearing her, an officer and a prize crew went on board and brought off the Captain and mates, from whom we learned that our prize was the William Thompson, beonging to New Bedford, and the largest whaling ship in the fleet. Leaving the officer and prize crew in charge, we steamed after the other, and when near enough, showed the English flag, which she janswered by hoisting the Stars and Stripes. We ran close along- side of her, sent an officer and prize crew on board with orders to bring off her company at once, and set the prize on fire, which was done. This was the ship Euphrates, and was also owned in New Bedford. Her crew came off to us in her own boats. About seven o'clock p. M. we spoke the English whaler Robert Town* of Sydney, Australia, and she was the only English vessel we saw bound for the Atlantic. We then turned round and steamed back toward the William Thompson, passing on the way the Euphrates, now one sheet of flame fore and aft. We remained in the vicinity of the first-named * Probably the name should be Hobart Town.—(Eo.)
Page 464
84 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDEBATE CRUISEE vessel until half past three the following morning, when that also was set on fire, and we steamed away to the northward in search of more Yankees. The weather was excessively uncomfortable; heavy fogs were frequent, and flurries of snow not uncommon, and the quantity of floating ice we encountered somewhat impeded our progress, if it did not place us in actual peril. About twelve o'clock at noon on the 24th, although noon and midnight were now about the same thing with us, the sun only re- maining an hour or two beneath the horizon, we began to near the Bering's Straits fleet, for which we had been looking, and by four o'clock eight sail were in sight from the deck. The sun was shining with more than its accustomed radiance as we advanced toward them, and as its rays were reflected from the glittering fields of ice, the effect was indescribably beautiful. Away on our starboard bow we could distinguish a boat and its crew gliding swiftly through the water, towed by a large right whale to which they had just fastened, and the vessel to which it belonged was standing slowly after, to keep it in view. Other ships we could see far off in the field-ice, trying out the blubber of the ponderous animals which they pursue and capture with such con- summate courage and skill; and upon the whole it was a scene of stirring activity well worth looking at. Seals in vast numbers were swimming in the water, or com- posedly floating on the drifting ice, and notwithstanding their cold bed, seemed to enjoy vastly the rays of the sun that for so small a portion of the year makes its heat felt in these high latitudes. On the starboard beam stretching away as far as the eye could reach, was a seemingly unbroken sea of ice, while on the port beam rose up the cold, dreary shores of Northern Asia, as sterile and in- hospitable a region as my eyes ever looked upon. 464
Page 465
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 85 The two vessels nearest us had foreign ensigns flying at their peaks, but the next in order sported Uncle Sam's gridiron, and all the others belonged to that same enterprising and wide-awake old gentleman. The first that fell into our hands was the ship Milo, of New Bedford, a staunch, but slow-sailing craft, evidently built expressly for this hazardous cruising, and was well prepared to resist the drift- ing ice so constantly encountered in these seas. She had on board several barrels of oil, but had only just commenced whaling in ear- nest. The Captain was a fine looking old veteran, standing over six feet two, and straight as an arrow. He came over the side with all the dignity of an admiral, and handed his papers to the first lieu- tenant who politely escorted him to the Captain's cabin. After a brief conversation, Captain Waddell proposed to ran- som the Milo for forty thousand dollars, on condition of her Cap- tain's agreeing to take what prisoners we then had on hand, and might capture in that vicinity, to San Francisco. He accepted the proposal readily, highly gratified, I have no doubt, at being able to save his vessel upon any terms, and the re- quisite bond was drawn whereby he bound his owners to pay the neat sum of forty thousand dollars at the close of the war. (I should be extremely unwilling to acquire the character of a dun, but I shall be pardoned, I trust, for reminding the parties in- terested that this, and a number of similar vouchers taken by us during our cruise, have not yet been paid, and if they ever intend to take up these obligations, no better time than the present will ever offer. To be sure the war terminated disastrously to our cause, but we are, therefore, so much the more in need of any trifling sums that may be owing us. The above amounts, therefore, may be sent 465
Page 466
86 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER to me, care of my publisher, who is hereby authorized to receipt for the same.) When this negotiation was concluded satisfactorily to all par- ties, the old skipper returned on board his vessel, and dispatched his whale boats to bring off the prisoners from the Shenandoah. Several of them warmly shook hands with us at parting, and ex- pressed the hope that we might meet again under different and mor* pleasing circumstances. It was a sentiment in which we could heartily concur, and I must say that American whalers are officered by some of the noblest, most high-minded and generous men belong- ing to the great brotherhood of seamen. A kindness they seldom forget,—to a friend their hand is ever open, and an enemy they can look upon as one who might have been a friend, but for some politi- cal accident which it is out of their line of business to examine into very closely. While all this was transpiring, two vessels lying quite near us seemed to have awakened to the fact that the locality was a danger- ous one, and to be endeavoring to arrange some plan of escape for one at least. Both were heading for the field ice, probably under the impression that while we were in pursuit of one, the other might find some opening through which we might not like to follow her, or elude us in some sudden fog, that Providence might send to her relief. All this we comprehended at a glance, and bidding the cap- tain of the Milo to wait and receive a farther addition to his passen- ger list, we got up steam and stood after the runaways. As we approached within easy range of them, one put about and steered for the shore while the other stood boldly on into the ice. Ordering the lookout aloft to keep a sharp eye on the former, we gave our especial attention to the latter, and ranging along near the edge of the ice, we fired a shot that passed just forward of her figure head. 466
Page 467
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 87 Still she stood on, in the desperate hope of escaping, so another shot was fired which passed through her main topsail, and being by this time convinced not only that she was within easy range but that we were capable of riddling her in a very brief period, she gave it up, went about, and steered toward our boat, which had been sent out with a prize crew as soon as we observed this last move- ment. The boat was soon alongside and the officer ascended to the deck. The prize proved to be the Sophia Thornton of New Bed- ford, and having dispatched the Captain and his mates in one of their own boats off to us, they remained in charge, while we started in pursuit of the other, under steam and fore and aft sail, at the rate of eleven knots an hour. Before the close of the first dog watch, we brought her to with a shot from our thirty-two pounder Whitworth rifle, which whistled past her stern. She had crowded on all the sail she could carry, but it availed her little in her laudable efforts to avoid capture. She proved to be another New Bedforder, the Jireh Swift, commanded by Captain Williams, a native of that city. He was said by Manning to have about fifteen thousand dollars in specie on board, the proceeds of a quantity of oil he had lately sold, but as Captain Williams readily made oath that there was no such amount in his vessel, and we had already discovered that our newly enlisted ship's corporal was a most accomplished liar, among his other en- gaging characteristics, we did not enter into a very close examina- tion. Within thirty minutes after the Jireh Swift was captured, she was in flames, and having seen her crew en route for the Milo in their own boats, we were off in chase of another fellow, that, how- ever, finally escaped into the ice. 467
Page 468
88 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER Several of the vessels which we had first seen engaged in trying out blubber, we now discovered were surrounded by such extensive fields of ice, that we dared not venture after them, so for once these hardy voyagers had occasion to thank as their preservers, these icy barriers that so often prove their destruction. Captain Waddell now determined to give the prisoners per- mission to take whatever they desired from the Sophia Thornton, in the way of provisions and other necessaries to make them com- fortable on their passage to San Francisco, so we stood back to her vicinity, where this decision was made known and was received with general satisfaction. There was an accompanying order, however, that did not meet with so much approbation. It was to fire the ship, when they had finished taking whatever they wanted away from her. This they reluctantly promised to do, but fearing, in case a favor- able breeze should spring up, the temptation to run away with her would prove too strong for their virtue, we cut away the spars, and giving them to understand that they would be within range of our eight-inch shells which would certainly be dropping down among them, if our instructions were not implicitly obeyed, we again got under way. As we glided seaward, still standing toward the frozen region of the Arctic circle, we could see the disabled vessel, with her masts dragging alongside, and the paroled prisoners in their whale boats, transferring from her to the MUo whatever suited their fancy. I have no doubt the craft was thoroughly ransacked, but ere the sun made its brief disappearance below the horizon, a bright tongue of flame shot heavenward, telling us that the prisoners had performed their distasteful task. A more unpleasant duty, I trust, will never be assigned to any of them. It is hard enough to see the oaken cradle in which one has rocked for so many weeks and months destroyed by the incendiary torch, but when necessity compels a sailor to light with his own hand the fire that is to consume the ship he has learned 468
Page 469
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 89 to love, he has good grounds for complaint against the fates, for the ungenerous usage to which they have subjected him. The next morning we fell in with, and captured the brig Susan and Abigail, a trader from San Francisco. She had a miscellane- ous cargo, consisting of guns, pistols, needles, calico, twine, and Yankee notions in general, such articles in short as would be ac- ceptable to the Esquimaux, with whom it was the Captain's inten- tion to barter for furs. It was a money-making trade I should judge from what I learned of it. For an old gun and some ammunition, fifteen or twenty sables were freely given in exchange, and a good knife would purchase almost anything. The Captain of the Susan and Abigail when he came on board wore a magnificent fur coat, a relic of his last voyage to these seas. He begged very hard that his ship might not be burned, as that was to be his last expedition to this part of the world, and he expected to clear about thirty thousand dollars, but his eloquence was all thrown away. Captain Waddell seldom took much notice of what prisoners said, so long as his own conscience approved, and about nine o'clock, the crew having been brought off, she was set on fire. A number of men joined us from the last prize and we were now pretty thor- oughly manned, thanks to the recruits we had first and last obtained from the enemy. We then continued our course, steaming to the northward and eastward, and ere nightfall passed the burning hulk of the Sophia Thornton. There was a heavy ice floe in sight, which necessitated the keep- ing of a bright lookout on board for fear of running into it. Ships, sailing in the direction we were, always keep to the westward of the ice, on account of the current which sets so strongly toward that point of the compass. 469
Page 470
90 THE SHENANDOAH; OB THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISEE All day long the ice could be seen on our starboard beam, ex- tending as far as the eye could reach. About six in the evening we discovered a sail and proceeded in chase, but the fog came on so thick that we were obliged to abandon it for fear of running into some unknown danger, from which we could not extricate ourselves. The most of the day the men had been busily engaged in kill- ing hogs, of which we had an abundance, that had been captured with prizes. Pork must be a favorite article of diet among whale- men, at least, I do not recollect that we took a single vessel after entering the Ochotsk Sea, that did not have at least half a dozen swine on board. We had now advanced so far north that night and day were mere arbitrary terms. For an hour or two there was a subdued twi- light, or rather lack of sunshine, but at any time during the twenty- four hours there was no difficulty in reading ordinary print with- out the aid of artificial light. No one can conceive until they have experienced it, the strange effect produced upon a native of the temperate zones by the endless day of the polar regions. There is some- thing so supernatural and fantastic in the sight of the sun travel- ling perpetually round the horizon, just dipping beneath it at one point for a brief space, instead of seeing it at an angle of about sixty degrees as with us, that until you become in a measure accustomed to it, to sleep is almost an impossibility. But trying as is the long day, the long night is infinitely worse, according to the testimony of all who have experienced it. The morning of the 21st of June found us surrounded by a fog of unusual density, and we were under the necessity of lying to in consequence. Indeed, to see a ship's length in any direction was ut- terly impossible, and with huge fields of ice drifting near us, and 470
Page 471
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 91 anon crashing together with a report like thunder, our situation was anything but desirable. But this is only one of the many dangers incident to Arctic sailing. It is a region of terrors, which start up grim and formidable on every side, and absolutely without an at- tractive feature save the wealth borne on the backs of the great right whales, or worn in the shape of choice furs by the seals that inhabit its waters, and the foxes and sables that abound upon its icy shores; and for wealth, man will dare any peril, face any danger. Before noon the fog had cleared away, and a few hours later we sighted St. Lawrence Island, lying almost directly to the south- ward of Bering's Straits. It was impossible to approach very near it on account of the ice which increased in quantity as we advanced toward the Arctic Ocean. An immense field lay off our starboard bow, seemingly as impenetrable a barrier to sailing in that direction as a similar extent of solid rock. The island is inhabited by a somewhat numerous tribe of Es- quimaux, who carry on a considerable trade in furs with whalers and other vessels that visit these seas. They subsist almost exclus- ively upon the flesh of seals and walrus, which is generally eaten raw. How they can exist in a climate where for two months in the year, the mercury freezes in the thermometer tube, is a mystery I leave others to explain. On the 25th we commenced steaming, and from that time till we finally left the Arctic Seas, we made comparatively little use of our sails. An extensive ice field was ahead, and to avoid it we stood directly north. About 10 A. M. we saw two sails on the port beam, and im- mediately gave chase to the nearest. She showed the Hawaiian en- sign, and as her appearance corresponded with her flag, we did not intercept her, but wore around and stood after the other. About twelve o'clock she showed the French colors, and as she 471
Page 472
92 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER did not have, on closer inspection, much of a Yankee look, we aban- doned that chase also, and resumed our course to the northward and eastward. The same afternoon we made out a sail on the starboard bow, and setting such fore and aft sail as we carried, we gave chase. We were not long in overhauling her, and, as she showed the Stars and Stripes, we passed close under her stern, within hailing distance, or- dering the Captain to heave to and come on board with his papers. The skipper took it very hard, and was quite disposed to make a personal matter of it. As he came over the side with his papers, he demanded, in a blustering, querulous manner, what injury he had ever done us, that we should hunt him like a wild animal, and destroy his property. Of course we assured him that we had no feelings of personal animosity to gratify, that our blows were only aimed at his Govern- ment, though they might fall heavily upon private individuals; but this was far from satisfying him, and I believe, to this day, he is half inclined to the opinion that the Shenandoah went up to the Arctic expressly to look after his ship, through some spite conceived against himself by the Government of the Southern Confederacy. The prize was the General Williams of New London, and the denizens of that wide-awake little city must have been in a most flourishing financial condition, for she had more money on board than any vessel we captured during the entire cruise. I pray my readers not to permit their expectations to be raised too high. We did not make quite so good a haul as some of the old buccaneers used to when they fell in with a Spanish ship laden with specie; but we did secure out of that New Londoner the enormous sum of four hundred dollars, and as I did not subsequently learn that any prominent New London house went down in consequence 472
Page 473
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 93 of that capture, I inferred, as above stated, that they must have enjoyed a high degree of prosperity. While we were lying near the General Williams, we saw twenty-five or thirty boats coming off to us from St. Lawrence Island. They contained Esquimaux, who brought with them a quan- tity of furs and ivory, which they desired to barter for whiskey and tobacco. Their boats were ingeniously constructed affairs. The frame is something like that of a whale boat, over which is stretched walrus hide, which renders them completely impervious to water. They are very light and much better calculated to traverse these icy seas than wood or even metallic boats. Few and simple as their implements are, these nomadic savages succeed in capturing a good many whales. They first blow a walrus hide, previously prepared for the purpose, full of air and to this they fasten one end of their harpoon line. Watching their oppor- tunity, they dart the harpoon into the whale, and thus attach to him a great buoy, which materially interferes with his diving propen- sities. Another and another is attached to him in the same way, until the poor animal can no longer get below the surface and is in the end, fairly worried to death. We did a little trading with our Esquimaux acquaintance, and after they had taken their departure, we removed the prisoners from the General Williams, and set her on fire. We then resumed our course, still working to the northward and eastward. A little past three P. M., three sails were reported in sight, but although a seemingly impassable barrier of ice stretched between them and our ship, we ventured into it under steam, and succeeded in passing through it safely. At one o'clock on the morning of the 26th, we came up with 473
Page 474
94 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER them. They were the William C. Nye, the Nimrod, and the Cather- ine, all of New Bedford. We had little trouble in capturing these vessels. Not a breath of air was stirring, and it was of course simply impossible for them to make even an effort at escape. We already had on board about one hundred prisoners, and the officers and crews of these three prizes would have augmented the number to about two hundred and fifty, a much larger delegation of Yankees than we cared to have on board the Shenandoah at a time, with nothing to do but plot mischief; so after a little consideration, it was decided to place the last instalment of prisoners in twelve whale boats, which we took in tow. Five more ships were now in sight, and after setting fire to the prizes we steamed after them. It was a singular scene upon which we now looked out. Be- hind us were three blazing ships, wildly drifting amid gigantic frag- ments of ice; close astern were the twelve whale-boats with their living freight; and ahead of us the five other vessels, now evidently aware of their danger, but seeing no avenue of escape. It was a tortuous way we now had to pursue, winding about among the ice floes like the trail of a serpent. Six knots an hour was the highest speed we dare attempt, so intricate was the navigation, but we at length succeeded in penetrating the little fleet for which we were steering. We had learned from some of the prisoners that the small-pox prevailed on one of the vessels, and we consequently gave her a wide berth, and turned our attention to the next in order, the Gen- eral Pike, of New Bedford, of which we soon made a prize. Her Captain came on board the Shenandoah, and gladly agreed to ran- som his ship for thirty thousand dollars, and take our prisoners to the United States. It required but a few moments to arrange these preliminaries, 474
Page 475
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 95 and ere long our prisoners were paroled and en route for the vessel that was to take them home, and we were bearing down upon an- other, which proved to be the Gipsy. It fell to my lot, as being the officer off duty, to accompany the prize crew on board of her. The Captain, who met us at the side, was terribly frightened. He was pale as a ghost, and could scarcely return an articulate answer to any question addressed to him. He evidently imagined he was to be burned with his ship, or at best run up to the yard-arm, and could scarcely believe it when I assured him that no personal injury or indignity was intended nim. His cabin was a most luxuriously fitted up affair for an Arctic whaler. There was a fine library, comprising some two hundred volumes, a beautiful writing-desk, and indeed all his furniture in style and finish would have done credit to a well-appointed drawing- room. He had also several cases of choice wines and liquors, which I destroyed to prevent the sailors from getting at them, reserving a bottle or two with which to treat my crew when they returned, after discharging the duty assigned us. It had been the custom of the Gipsy's skipper to take his wife with him on his voyaging, but fortunately she had remained at home this cruise. In a little time the officers and crew of the Gipsy had been paroled and transferred to the General Pike, a few furs and trin- kets were appropriated, and the torch was applied. An hour later the barque Isabel had been brought to and boarded, her crew sent off to join their countrymen, and we hauled along side of her for the purpose of filling our tanks from her water casks. Having secured what water we wished, we steamed off a little 475
Page 476
96 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER way and set her on fire, and lay to to wait for our boat and its crew, who had performed this last duty. As soon as they were on board we got under way, still standing to the northward. On the 27th of June we let our fires go down, lowered our smoke-stack, and commenced beating to the northward under sail. Five ships were in sight, tacking about, little thinking what a dan- gerous foe was in their vicinity. The weather was cold and foggy, with a good breeze blowing, consequently we made no dash at the fleet, as a part of them would undoubtedly succeed in escaping while we were dealing with the rest. We preferred to wait for a calm when we could swoop down upon them and secure the whole. The morning of the 28th opened with very little wind and a clear sky. It was one of the pleasantest days we experienced from the time we entered the Ochotsk Sea until we finally got clear of those icy regions. There were eight sails in sight in different direc- tions, and land was visible on our port beam. Quantities of ice were setting to the southward and eastward, and about half past six we saw Diomede Island, about twelve miles distant. At eight o'clock we commenced what proved to be our last day's warfare against the commerce of the United States, by starting in chase, under steam, of a sail we sighted a little way to the south- ward. At ten o'clock we captured the barque Waoerley, of New Bed- ford, with five hundred barrels of oil. Her officers and crew were at once sent on board the Shenandoah, after which she was set on fire, and we steered off to the westward until twelve o'clock and then shaped our course to the northward, passing through an ex- tensive field of ice, and at half past one, neared a fleet of ten ships at the entrance of Bering's Straits. For the purpose of deceiving them we hoisted the United 476
Page 477
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 97 States flag, though there was not a breath of wind at the time and not a shadow of a chance for any one of them to escape. It seemed as though the Fates had interposed to render our last achievement the most imposing and brilliant of the cruise, if not of the war. One ship, the Brunswick, from New Bedford, had been stove, and now flew signals of distress. Under these circumstances it is the custom of whalers to collect all the vessels of the fleet within signalling distance, and, if the craft is found so badly injured that it is impossible to repair her, an auction is improvised, and she is sold to the highest bidder. It was for such a purpose that the whaling fleet of Bering's Straits had assembled on the 28th of June, 1865, ill-omened day for them and the insurance offices of New Bedford! Seeing our vessel standing in with the United States flag at her peak, a boat came off from the disabled Brunswick to ascertain if our Captain could lend them a carpenter or two and render any other little assistance that might be required. We received the delegation with grave faces, and informed them that their wants should all be attended to, in due time. Our boats were then made ready for lowering, and officers and men were de- tailed to board the whalers and bring off their captains and mates. When all was ready, the boats started from our ship with one accord, the United States ensign was hauled down, the Confederate run up in its place, and a blank cartridge fired toward the centre of the fleet. All now was consternation. On every deck we could see ex- cited groups gathering, gazing anxiously at the perfidious stranger, and then glancing wistfully aloft where their sails hung idly in the still air. But look where they would, there was no avenue of es- cape. The wind, so long their faithful coadjutor, had turned 477
Page 478
98 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER traitor, and left them like stranded whales, to the mercy of the first enemy. I said all was consternation, but that statement needs qualify- ing, for on board one ship, the Favorite, there was nothing of the sort. As soon as it dawned upon her grim old Captain that a wolf in sheep's clothing had strayed into their fold, he mustered his men on deck, armed them with muskets, got up his old bomb gun, an instrument made use of by some vessels to discharge the harpoon into whales, and stood resolutely on the defensive, a cutlass in one hand and an old-fashioned navy revolver in the other. "Boat ahoy!" he bellowed, as soon as our little craft was within hailing distance. "Ahoy!" responded the officer in charge, somewhat taken aback. "Who are you, and what do you want?" was the next saluta- tion. "We come to inform you that your vessel is a prize to the Confederate steamer Shenandoah." "I'll be d—d if she is, at least, just yet, and now keep off or I'll fire into you." The old Spartan began to squint along his bomb gun, and the men to handle their muskets in such a decidedly business-like man- ner, that it was perfectly apparent that he intended to carry his threat into execution. Seeing this, the officer in charge of the boat hailed our ship, reported the state of things, and wished to know if it was the Cap- tain's desire that he should board her in spite of resistance. Captain Waddell ordered the boat back to the Shenandoah, which immediately steamed towards the contumacious Yankee, and ranged alongside. 478
Page 478
Blank page
Page 478
The Shenandoah towing prisoners from three burning whaling vessels in Bering's Straits, June 25, 1865.
This page contains an image.
Page 479
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 99 The skipper still stood by his bomb gun with his forces drawn up on deck as though he actually meditated fighting it out. "Haul down your flag!" shouted the officer of the deck as soon as we were near enough for his voice to be heard on board the stranger. "Haul it down yourself! d—n you!" was the plucky re- sponse, "if you think it will be good for your constitution." "If you don't haul it down we'll blow you out of the water in five minutes." "Blow away, my buck, but may I be eternally blasted if I haul down that flag for any cussed Confederate pirate that ever floated," was the defiant rejoinder. Captain Waddell had stood an amused spectator of this scene, and so much did he admire the old fellow's bravery, though much could not be said for his discretion, that he would not permit a shot to be fired into his ship, but dispatched an armed boat's crew to bring him off. When he came on board, it was evident he had been seeking spirituous consolation, indeed to be plain about it, he was at least three sheets in the wind, but by general consent he was voted to be the bravest and mest resolute man we captured during our cruise. By five o'clock we had made prizes of the whole fleet, ten sail in all. One of them, the James Murray, had lost her Captain a short time previous, but his widow with her three little children were still on board. The lady was very much frightened when the boarding officer stepped on deck and besought him, with tears in her eyes, not to destroy the ship that had been her husband's home so long. As gently as possible he soothed her fears, telling her that no harm should befall her or the ship, through our instrumentality. 479
Page 480
100 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER The James Murray was accordingly ransomed, and her mate was directed to take the vessel to the United States, with as many prisoners as could be conveniently accommodated. Another of the number, the Nile, was also ransomed as a transport for the remaining prisoners, and when these had received their passengers, the remainder of the captured vessels were set on fire. The following are the names of the vessels captured that day: Ships Hillman, Nassau, Isaac Howland, and Brunswick. Barques Martha 2d, Congress, Waverley, and James Murray. All these belonged to New Bedford, besides the Nile of New London, and the Favorite of Fair Haven. We hauled off a little distance and anchored with a kedge, to watch the mighty conflagration our hands had lighted. It was a scene never to be forgotten by any one who beheld it. The red glare from the eight burning vessels shone far and wide over the drifting ice of those savage seas; the crackling of the fire as it made its devouring way through each doomed ship, fell on the still air like upbraiding voices. The sea was filled with boats driving hither and thither, with no hand to guide them, and with yards, sails, and cordage, remnants of the stupendous ruin there progressing. In the distance, but where the light fell strong and red upon them, bringing out into bold relief each spar and line, were the two ransomed vessels, the Noah's Arks that were to bear away the human life which in a few hours would be all that was left of the gallant whaling fleet. Imagination assisted us no doubt, but we fancied we could see the varied expressions of anger, disappointment, fear, or wonder, that marked the faces of the multitude on those decks, as their eyes rested on this last great holocaust; and when, one by one, the burn- ing hulks went hissing and gurgling down into the treacherous 480
Page 481
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 101 bosom of the ocean, the last act in the bloody drama of the Ameri- can civil war had been played. Widely different were the arenas that witnessed the opening and concluding scenes. The overture was played by the thunder of artillery beneath the walls of Sumter, with the breath of April fanning the cheeks of those who acted there their parts, while all the world looked on; the curtain finally fell amid-the drifting ice of the Arctic seas; burning vessels formed a pyrotechnic display such as the children of men have seldom looked upon, while a grim and silent cruiser, that had, even then, no government nor country, and two weather-beaten whalers, filled with despondent prisoners, were the only audience. From one of these last prizes we obtained the first news from the States we had received for many months. She had San Fran- cisco papers bearing date the fifteenth of April, and containing intelligence of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. The news occasioned a general feeling of astonishment and indignation throughout the Shenandoah. That one who sympa- thized with the Southern cause could have deliberately planned and executed an act that would strike with horror every honorable man, whatever his partisan sentiments might be, and thus redound to the discredit of the Government for whose success he professed to be laboring, seemed passing strange. It was even then shadowed forth in the papers we perused so far from the place of their pub- lication, that designing men would endeavor to fasten upon the Southern people at large, and especially upon their leaders, the odium of that hideous crime. That this has since been done, the world is well aware, but only the Southern people know how cruelly unjust is such an accusation. It must be borne in mind that although this was the 28th of June, we had as yet received no tidings of the cessation of hostil- ities between the United States and the Confederacy. So far as we knew, our armies, though repulsed at many points, and sadly 481
Page 482
102 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER depleted in numbers, were still making a gallant stand against the Northern hordes, which eventually overran our unhappy country, bearing down all resistance before them; consequently our hearts were buoyed up with the thought that we were still aiding the great cause to which we had devoted our lives and fortunes. From some source best known to himself, our pilot Manning. now advanced to the position of acting master's mate, learned that a fleet comprising about sixty sail, had passed up through Bering's Straits into the Arctic Ocean, but a short time previous. Of course they were still somewhere in the ice-bound sea, from which there was no exit save the passage by which they had entered it, and we determined to overhaul them if that was possible. At eleven o'clock P. M. we hove up our kedge and once more commenced steaming north, and by ten o'clock on the morning of the 29th we had passed through Bering's Straits, within sight, at the same time, of the extreme frontiers of Asia and North America, and were fairly within the Arctic Circle. It was a desolate prospect that met our view. We were at last launched on the Arctic Ocean, within whose cold embrace was clasped the prize we so much coveted; but now as far as the eye could reach, extended one vast unbroken sea of ice, where two weeks before had been comparatively open water. To attempt to penetrate such barriers would have been sheer madness. The undertaking would have been attended with the gravest peril, even with the auxiliary of a vessel expressly forti- fied and strengthened for the rough encounter, and after a brief consideration, Captain Waddell decided to make no further effort to penetrate the Polar Sea, and I do not think there was an officer or man on board who did not acquiesce in the wisdom of the decision. The same afternoon, therefore, we put about and steamed 482
Page 483
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 103 southward, and ere the hour which should have brought nightfall, passed the burning hulks we had set on fire the preceding day, and we also had a last view of the two ships containing our pris- oners, something over four hundred all told. It was a relief to feel that we were again bound for the genial region of the tropics, our intention now being to cruise on the Pacific coast in the hopes of capturing one or more of the rich steamers that ply between San Francisco and Panama. How others may have felt I know not, but for myself, I am free to confess, that I had had enough of Arctic cruising, and if I never look again upon those icy seas and barren shores, fit resi- dences only for Esquimaux, seals, and Polar bears, it will not occasion me one moment's regret. In our outward passage through the Straits, we had an illus- tration of the exuberance of animal life existing in these rigorous waters. Hundreds of walruses were disporting around us, now raising their huge bulks above the surface of the water and utter- ing their strange roaring cry, and anon disappearing beneath their native element. We were much annoyed by the everlasting fogs prevailing in these latitudes, on our passage out, and several times were in imminent danger from this cause. On the evening of the 30th, just as the sun was dipping below the horizon, our ship suddenly brought up all standing on a heavy cake of field ice. Officers were thrown from their berths and men from their hammocks, by the force of the concussion, and for a time the impression was general that we had struck upon a rock, and sustained serious if not fatal injury. It was not long before we ascertained our real situation. The yards were braced back to permit the ship to go astern, while 488
Page 484
104 THE SHENANDOAH; OK THE LAST CONFEDEEATE CBUISEE a number of men went over the side upon the floe and made lines fast by means of crowbars and kedges secured in the ice. By such means and appliances we at last succeeded in escap- ing from the dangerous locality into which we had wandered un- wittingly in consequence of the fog, but it was a narrow escape, and had we not struck upon the floe, we should probably have been beset for a considerable time. When daylight returned, a cheerless spectacle was revealed to us. Ahead of us and on both bows were great fields of floating ice extending to the utmost verge of vision, and for awhile it seemed as though we were to experience another jam, but ere long, another stretch of water opened, into which we steamed, more because it was the only space of open water than because it promised an avenue of escape, and continued our slow and pain- ful progress southward, the ice parting before us as we advanced, as though on purpose to let our good ship through. After four or five hours of such anxious navigation we sighted the open water again, and finally, thank God! reached it, having passed almost scathless the many perils by which we had been menaced. The next day we passed a small island owned by the Rus- sians, which is widely celebrated among the frequenters of these waters for the fur seals with which it abounds. It is a constant source of temptation to American whalers, who, whenever oppor- tunity offers, organize a filibustering expedition against these furry denizens of the far north, and the consequence is, a lively feud is generally on the tapis between some of them and the sub- jects of the Czar, who take in high dudgeon this trespass upon their hunting-ground. We were still fairly within the right whaling-ground, and of course entertained the hope of falling in with a few more prizes ,'

484
Page 485
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 105 before bidding a final adieu to the Arctic Seas, but in this we were disappointed. We saw no more whalers after leaving Bering's Straits, and about the 1st of July we passed out between two of the islands that form a chain running east and west, about 53° north latitude, and saw the open Pacific stretching away broad and inviting before us. A few sheets of copper chafed off by our rude encounters was the most serious loss we had sustained. CHAPTER IX THE RETURN VOYAGE TO LIVERPOOL THE principal part of the duty assigned us had been dis- charged in the destruction and dispersing of the New Eng- land whaling fleet, and it was with feelings of profound relief that we at last saw these frozen seas, with their many perils seen and unseen, where for weeks we had been battling with ice, or groping blindly in impenetrable fogs, fading in the distance. All were in good spirits, as we had reason to be, after per- forming well, a laborious and in many respects unpleasant duty, and as each day carried us nearer these genial seas where for a time we expected to cruise, the memory of many hardships faded from our minds. Thus we sped us on our way. Three weeks took us fairly into warm weather again, and never was the advent of balmy air and soft breezes hailed with more genuine delight. Heavy woollen clothing began to be no longer an indispensable concomitant of comfort, and a watch on deck instead of an irksome duty had become a pleasant pastime. The crew were engaged in cleaning and painting the ship, and ere many days, the battered and weather-worn look she had acquired while boxing about in Arctic ice had disappeared, and she once more assumed her old time tidiness. 485
Page 486
106 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER We saw no sail after leaving the Straits on the 30th of June, until the 2d of August, when we sighted a barque. The wind was very light, so we got up steam, and stood toward her, flying the English ensign at our peak. As we approached, she showed the same colors, and although we had no reason to doubt from her general appearance but that she had a perfect right to carry the flag she flew, we stopped our engines and dispatched an officer on board, in the hope of obtaining some comparatively recent news from the world of which we had known so little for many weary months. In the course of half an hour the boat returned, bringing intel- ligence of the gravest possible moment. The Southern cause was lost,—hopelessly—irretrievably—and the war ended. Our gallant generals, one after another, had been forced to surrender the armies they had so often led to victory. State after state had been overrun and occupied by the countless myriads of our enemies, until star by star the galaxy of our flag had faded, and the South- ern Confederacy had ceased to exist. Sadder still were the tidings that our civil Chief, who, with untiring energy and perseverance, had striven for four long, bloody years to accomplish our independence; hopeful always when others despaired, devising some new scheme to prolong the struggle, when further resistance, to minds less clear and comprehensive than his, seemed impossible; believing in the justice of his cause, and there- fore fearing not to leave the event in the hands of the God he trusted, was a captive, loaded with fetters and closely guarded in the casemate of a fortress, charged with being an accessory to the murder of Abraham Lincoln. The news gathered from the Barracouta was as overwhelming as it was unexpected, and every man felt as though he had just learned of the death of a near and dear relative. Indeed, it is 486
Page 487
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 107 seldom that men find themselves so strangely circumstanced as we then were, and we might well feel serious apprehension. It had been three months since hostilities ceased, leaving us without a flag or a country, and during that time we had been actively engaged in preying upon the commerce of a Government that not only claimed our allegiance, but had made good her claim by wager of battle. It required no prophet to foretell what construction the people of the North would put upon our actions. We well knew the in- veterate hatred with which they regarded the people of the seceded States. From the first they had stigmatized our cruisers as pirates, even when we were recognized as belligerents by the leading powers of the world, and they would not be likely to let slip such an oppor- tunity as our last escapade had furnished them with, to glut their vengeance with our blood, should we fall into their hands. True, it would have been apparent to any unprejudiced per- son that cruising as we had been in the Arctic seas, entirely out of the track of news, we could not have become cognizant, except through the interposition of a miracle, of any event transpiring in the United States, short of three or four months; but the people, who, without a shade of reason, could incarcerate Jefferson Davis, and accuse him of being implicated in a brutal murder, would not be very apt to see any extenuating circumstance in our case, and every man of us knew that if the Shenandoah was captured before she could reach an English port, that his days were numbered. The officers of the Barracouta deeply sympathized with us in our unpleasant dilemma, but they could do nothing save wish us God-speed and a safe deliverance from the hands of our enemies; but it was very evident they entertained small hopes of our eluding the many snares that were and would be set for our feet. Several United States cruisers and one English man-of-war, they knew, 487
Page 488
108 THE SHENANDOAH; OB THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER had been dispatched in search of us, and it was like running a very gauntlet of life to hope to escape all these dangers unscathed. But there was no use in repining. What had heen done in the past could not be helped; the record of our deeds was written in imperishable characters, and could not be gainsaid. And now that we had no longer a country to claim our services, self- preservation was the first thing to be considered. As soon as the English vessel had proceeded on her way, Captain Waddell summoned his whole ship's company aft, and formally announced to them the startling intelligence he had just received. No man of them, he said, had any reason to blush for the service in which he had been engaged; our cruise had been projected and prosecuted in good faith; it had inflicted heavy blows upon the commerce of our late enemies, which would not soon be forgotten; but now there was nothing more to be done but to secure our personal safety by the readiest and most effica- cious means at hand. As a cruiser we had no longer a right to sail the seas, for in that character we were liable to capture by the ship of any civilized nation, for we had no longer a flag to give a semblance of legality to our proceedings. The address was listened to respectfully, and after a brief consultation among themselves, the crew presented a petition signed by nearly all of their number, requesting our captain to proceed at once to Sydney, Australia, the nearest English port, and there abandon the ship to Her Majesty's authorities, and let each man look out for his own personal safety. Captain Waddell at once professed to accede to this request, and for twenty-four hours the vessel was actually headed for Syd- ney; but events proved that he had really no intention of ever going there, and at the expiration of the time I have mentioned, he altered the course of the ship without announcing the fact to any one, and steered for Cape Horn en route for Liverpool. 488
Page 489
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 109 From a letter of Captain Waddell's, which will be found in the latter part of this volume, it will be seen that he gives a somewhat different version of this affair, but I speak from my own per- sonal knowledge when I say that he promised his crew to run the Shenandoah into Sydney, and then, without their cognizance, steered for another and more distant port, thus subjecting them to what they considered unnecessary peril, for the sake of secur- ing a considerable sum of money which he knew to be lodged in the hands of one of our secret agents at Liverpool, and I farther assert that nothing like a mutinous spirit even, unless a petition they subsequently submitted may be called so, was ever manifested by any officer from the time we left the English shores till we returned to them. It will be remembered that when we first set sail from Ma- deira, the labor devolved upon us of transforming the merchant- man Sea King into the cruiser Shenandoah, and now, so far as possible, that work was to be undone, and with sad hearts we betook ourselves to the task. The same tackles which had been used in transferring our armament from the Laurel to our decks, were again got aloft to assist in dismounting the heavy guns, and striking them below, beyond the reach of prying eyes—port holes were closed up, our smoke stack whitewashed, and in appearance our ship was a quiet merchantman, peacefully pursuing her way, with naught to apprehend from any vessel she might encounter on the high seas. The hilarity which had so long been observable throughout the ship, was now gone, and there were only anxious faces to be seen in cabin, ward-room, and forecastle. The lookouts, it was true, still mounted aloft, but it was not to scan the seas for ships that might be captured, but to maintain a faithful watch and ward over any suspicious sail that might make its appearance above the horizon. 489
Page 490
110 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER While rolling down toward the Cape, with the "brave west- erly s" astern, the lookout one day reported a vessel with all sail set, to foretop-mast studding sail, standing very nearly on the same course as ourselves. Our glasses soon revealed the fact, that she was English, and not a man-of-war, consequently there was nothing to apprehend from her, and as she seemed to bear a singular family likeness to our own good ship, we resolved to have a nearer view of her. At the time we were under top-gallant-sails, but before many minutes the topmen were aloft loosing the royals which were soon sheeted home, and hoisted away. The foretop-mast studding-sail was also broken out, and swayed aloft, the tack hauled out, the sheet sent down, and away we went to try our speed with the stranger. She seemed to understand that a race was on the tapis, and immediately began to show more canvas. For a time it was doubtful how the contest would end. Both had a heavy press of sail, and were dancing along at the rate of twelve or thirteen knots an hour, but the Shenandoah was too much by the head and at last it became apparent that the stranger was slowly leaving us. Observing this we signaled her, to learn who and what she was, and the bunting soon informed us that it was the sister ship of our own, built by the same firm on the Clyde, and in brief, one was almost a counterpart of the other. It was the first time we had fallen in with a vessel that could outsail us, and had we been in equally good trim with the Eng- lishman, I do not think either would have had an opportunity of claiming a victory. We made a splendid run from the line to the Cape and nearly rounded it, well to the southward, without any incident worth recording, but we were not destined to get entirely clear of the Horn without a specimen of the tempestuous weather for which that locality is so widely celebrated. 490
Page 491
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 111 We were just congratulating ourselves upon our fortunate passage round this dreaded Cape, when we encountered a gale which for a few hours was abolutely terrific, and lay to under close reefed main-topsail, and fore storm staysail, with a tarpaulin in the fore rigging to ride it out. The sea ran mountains high, dash- ing its spray far up into the rigging, and more than one huge wave made a clean breach over us, leaving such a quantity of water on our decks, as to engender at times grave fears for our safety. The ship was tossed about like a cockle shell, but happily we sustained no serious injury, and when the tempest had finally blown itself out we got clear of "old Cape Misery," as it is some- times aptly called by sailors, and were once more standing on our course to the eastward, but keeping much further to the south than is ordinarily done by vessels bound for the port that we were, to avoid falling in with any cruisers that might be looking for us. Within the next few days we passed a good many icebergs, some of them hundreds of feet in height, slowly drifting as they were influenced by the under currents of the ocean, fit representa- tives of the Antarctic region from whence they came. One day we passed no less than fourteen of them. I ob- tained the altitude of the largest by means of the sextant, and found that from its visible base to the pinnacle, it measured no less than three hundred and twenty feet. When first discovered it bore a striking resemblance, in form, to a church with a lofty pointed spire, but as we neared it and it gradually turned it assumed the appearance of a mere shapeless block of polar ice, in parts white and sparkling in the sun's rays like crystal, and in others deep blue and seemingly as imperishable as solid rock. Of course long before this time the crew had discovered that whatever part of the world they might be steering for, they were certainly not heading for Australia, and some dissatisfaction was 491
Page 492
112 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER felt, not only by them, but by the officers, at Captain WaddelTs open violation of his pledge. Justice compels me to say that the Captain's conduct was not free from censure. He had his own reasons, as I have intimated, for preferring to reach Liverpool and there surrender his ship, but he should have announced this fact in the first place instead of promising what he did not intend to perform, and thus lead- ing many to apprehend that he was actuated by some motive that would not bear explanation. About this time a petition was gotten up among the officers, and signed by all of them with the exception of five, requesting the Captain to run for Cape Town, then to the eastward of us, and there surrender the ship to the proper authorities. To this petition he vouchsafed no response direct or other- wise. With the quartermaster he held long, confidential inter- views, and to him confided his plans, which he studiously con- cealed from one and all of his officers, and it was only through this subaltern that we could obtain any information as to where we were bound, though of course our destination was by many suspected. Such conduct was as injudicious as it was unjust, and gave rise to grave suspicions touching our commander's integrity of purpose, which, I am sorry to say, the event did not prove to be altogether unfounded. At length, after several days had passed without any notice being taken of his officers' petition, he called the five who had not signed it, upon the quarter-deck, and for the first time informed them that he intended taking the ship to Liverpool. I was one of the five. For myself, I preferred to take the chances of reaching that port where there was a probability at least that some provision had been made for us, to steering for 492
Page 493
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 113 Sydney or Cape Town, where we should have found ourselves destitute in a foreign country, whose Government, however warmly it professed to sympathize with the Confederacy in the times when she gallantly held at bay the mighty power of the United States, would have few words of welcome for the last of her adherents in this day of adversity. As in the olden time, when the wayfarer from Jerusalem to Jericho fell among thieves and was passed by by the Priest and Levite, so might we expect to receive at the hands of the world the treatment usually meted out to men who have been engaged in an enterprise that proved a failure; and if some good Samaritan met us with wine and oil, it was more than we could with reason anticipate. But altogether I differed from my brother officers as to the expediency of their proposed measure, I fully agreed with them in regarding the conduct of Captain Waddell as unwarranted and ungentlemanly, and the letter he subsequently wrote denouncing them as mutineers, was one of the most dastardly returns a com- mander ever made to officers who from first to last had faithfully discharged every duty assigned them, and certainly never com- mitted an act to sully their honor while on board the Shenandoah. When about four hundred miles from the Azores, we sighted a suspicious looking sail which seemed to be lying to as though waiting for us. The wind was very light, and feeling considerable apprehension as to the stranger's character, we wore ship and stood to the southwest, getting up steam in the meantime as rap- idly as possible; but that was an operation that required some- thing like two hours, as we had been under sail ever since parting from the Barracouta. As soon as our engines were rendered available, we furled all sail and steamed due east for about sixteen hours, making alto- gether a pretty wide detour. My own impression is, that she was a Yankee cruiser, and if the surmise is correct, we came near 493
Page 494
114 THE SHENANDOAH-, OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CBUISER falling into the enemy's clutches, for she was only about six miles distant when first discovered. About two weeks before our arrival in Liverpool, we were called upon to pay the last sad offices to one of our shipmates, who, just before the conclusion of that eventful voyage, launched out upon the great ocean of eternity. His name was George Can- ning, and he was one of those who had joined us at Melbourne, and had been promoted to be sergeant of marines. He repre- sented, and we had no reason to doubt it, that he had formerly been an officer on General Polk's staff, and, while thus serving his country had received, at the battle of Shiloh, a ball through one of his lungs, which incapacitated him for soldiering. The wound had never entirely healed, and through it his life finally oozed away. He had been for some time unable to per- form active duty, but his danger had not been considered immi- nent up to the very night of his death. It so chanced that he was alone, with the exception of his attendant, an old negro, in his last moments. For an hour or more he had been lying quietly in his berth, apparently suffering little pain, when suddenly he reached forth his hand and grasped that of his sable companion. "Good-by, Weeks," he said, "I am going. Take care of yourself, old fellow;" and the next moment poor Canning was dead. That night the body was draped for its ocean grave in sailor fashion, by being sewn up in his own hammock, to the foot of which were securely fastened two thirty-two pound shot, and the next day the boatswain's whistle summoned "all hands to bury the dead." A more solemnly impressive scene than a burial at sea can 494
Page 495
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 115 scarcely be imagined. At the well-known signal the whole ship's company assembled on deck, not with the gay alacrity that char- acterizes their movements when responding to any other sum- mons, but with slow steps and serious faces that were in keeping with the occasion. Upon a smooth plank, one end of which rested on the taffrail, while the other was supported by two seamen, lay the enshrouded form of our late comrade, while near by stood the ship's surgeon with open prayer-book in hand, to read the solemn burial service of the Roman Catholic church, to which the deceased had been attached. All remained uncovered while the surgeon, with impressive voice and manner, recited the solemn formula, and as he repeated the words, "We therefore commit his body to the deep, looking for the general resurrection in the last day, when the earth and sea shall give up their dead," the inner end of the plank was lifted, and with a sullen plunge the body disappeared forever from our view. Of Canning's antecedents we knew nothing, beyond what I have mentioned, but friends he must have had somewhere upon the face of the earth, and it must have seemed hard to die with no loved one near to minister to his last necessities. Such, however, is too often the case with sailors,—the ocean, so long their home, in the end proves the mausoleum that takes their bodies to its keeping, and the last "good-by" is whispered in the ear of some rough but sympathetic shipmate. Once Canning had mentioned that he had a wife living in Paris, and on our arrival in port, a notice was inserted in the public journals, mentioning his death, and inviting any relative who might see it to call at No. 11 Great George's Square, Liver- pool, and receive such worldly possessions as he had left. 495
Page 496
116 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER This death affected us all the more from its being the only one that had occurred on board the Shenandoah during her cruise, with one exception. A poor Sandwich Islander, who had joined us from the barque Abigail, the first prize we captured in the Ochotsk Sea, died on the return passage, and far away from the sunny land of his nativity, found a sailor's grave beneath the blue water. On the 4th of November, our reckoning showed us to be near land, and all eyes were anxiously scanning the horizon, for a glimpse of old England. We knew not what reception was in store for us, for momentous changes had taken place since we set forth on that adventurous pilgrimage round the world, but we were weary of suspense and all were desirous of making port, and learning the worst as soon as possible. Night, however, closed around us, with nothing but the heav- ing sea with which we had been so long familiar, in sight, and the following morning a dense fog was hanging over the water, effectually concealing everything from view at a ship's length distance. Extreme caution was now necessary, as we had only our chro- nometers and the patent log towing astern to rely upon for show- ing us our position, but we steamed slowly ahead with all sails furled, laying our course for St. George's Channel. Soon the fog lifted, revealing to our view the green shores of Ireland, on our port beam,—the first land we had seen since we lost sight of the snow-clad bluffs of Northern America, one hun- dred and thirty-two days before. Notwithstanding the uncertainty in which our fate was still enshrouded, there were many happy faces to be seen on the Shen- andoah's decks that memorable morning, as we glided on toward 496
Page 497
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 117 Tuskar Rock Light. Soon we had that abeam, and were steaming, at the rate of nine knots an hour, to the northward and eastward toward Holyhead. Thirteen months before, we set sail from that point in the steamer Laurel, to join our ship at Madeira, little anticipating such a return. Shipwreck, capture, and disaster in many forms, we were prepared to look forward to as things possible, but the utter collapse of our Government that had so long and so successfully stood upon the defensive, leaving our ship a veritable Ishmael of the sea, with none to claim or recognize her for other than a law- less freebooter, was such a culmination of misfortunes as none of us had counted upon. And while from full hearts more than one sincere thanksgiving, silent, but none the less acceptable perhaps, went up to Almighty God for our almost miraculous escape from those who had gone forth to hunt us, like wild beasts, to death; there was many a sorrowful association connected with this spot, where began and ended our world-renowned cruise. CHAPTER XI THE WELCOME WE RECEIVED FROM OUR ENGLISH FRIENDS A"1 midnight the pilot boat was seen approaching, and ere long that functionary was on board. As soon as this was known every one was on the alert, anxious to see him and learn what news he had to tell, and perhaps gain some ink- ling as to the spirit in which the wanderers were to be received. As he came over the side he was met by our first lieutenant, who bade him "Good morning." "Good morning," the pilot responded; "what ship is this?" "The late Confederate steamer Shenandoah." 497
Page 498
118 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUTSEB "The deuce it is! Where have you fellows come from last?" "From the Arctic Ocean." "Haven't you stopped at any port since you left there?" "No; nor been in sight of land, either. What news from the war in America?" "It has been over so long people have got through talking about it. Jeff Davis is in Fortress Monroe, and the Yankees have had a lot of cruisers out looking for you. Haven't you seen any of them?" "Not unless a suspicious looking craft we sighted off the Western Islands was one." The pilot then took command of the ship which would have been received in Liverpool with so much eclat, had our cause tri- umphed in the late contest. In that event we should have been the heroes of the hour, sought after and feted as we had been in Mel- bourne, and crowds of visitors would have besieged us from morn- ing till night. But we had returned under no such auspices and our glory was departed. From no quarter did we receive a word of cordial welcome, and the journals once most clamorous for our cause, were the first to bestow upon us the epithet of "pirates," and to queru- lously ask why we had come there to get them into trouble with the United States. So much for the disinterested friendship of Great Britain. As long as their workshops were busy turning out arms and munitions of war for our armies in the field, and block- ade runners from Southern ports were arriving at Liverpool and London, laden with the coveted cotton, they were loud in their protestations of sympathy and friendship; but when the hour of adversity came, when there was nothing more to be made out of us, these fair-weather friends coolly ignored our existence. 498
Page 499
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONTEDERATE CRUISER 119 Before reaching the city, our pilot managed to run us aground on the bar, where we were obliged to remain until the following morning. During the night, the First Lieutenant came around and warned the officers to keep their revolvers about them, as he had seen enough to make him apprehensive that a plot was on foot among the crew to secure what valuables there were on board, and decamp. The fear that their wages would not be forthcoming, had suggested to them this desperate expedient. It must be confessed that their prospects for payment were not brilliant; at least none but a very credulous man would feel much confidence in the feasibility of collecting a debt due him from a defunct Government. The officers profited by the suggestion, kept their arms within reach, and maintained a vigilant watch. The crew made no demon- stration, perhaps because they perceived that their plans were dis- covered, and that we were ready for any emergency, and possibly because sober second thought had led them to abandon a rashly- formed determination. Soon after daylight we got clear of the bar, and steamed up the river toward the city, with the flag that had accompanied us round the world, flying at our peak for the last time. The fog shut out the town from our view, and we were not sorry for it, for we did not care to have the gaping crowd on shore witness the humili- ation that was soon to befall our ship. That afternoon we ranged astern of H. B. M.'s ship Donegal and dropped anchor. The First Lieutenant stood upon the poop, his arms folded on his breast, gazing at the flag under which he had so long done battle, and then turned away with tears coursing down his bronzed cheeks. He was not alone in this exhibition of weakness, if such it was, 499
Page 500
120 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER for more than one eye, unaccustomed to weep, turned aside to conceal the unwonted drops, as at a silent signal the quartermaster hauled down the Stars and Bars, thereby surrendering the Shen- andoah to the British authorities. Sorrowfully the master rolled up the old banner, and carried it to the Captain, but he declined to encumber himself with it, so he gave it to his secretary, who was only too anxious to become its possessor. That same afternoon the Donegal sent a prize crew on board, consisting of twenty-five marines and twenty-five sailors, who took possession of the ship and held us as prisoners until Her Majesty's pleasure concerning us was known. Within the last year we had sent many prize crews to take possession of captured vessels, and now our turn had come to re- ceive such an unwelcome delegation, and we appreciated better perhaps than we had ever done before, with what feelings of poig- nant sorrow men surrender a ship they have learned to love, and haul down a flag endeared to them by every sentiment of patriot- ism. As soon as practicable Captain Waddell delivered to the com- mander of the Donegal, the following letter, to be by him for- warded to Earl Russell. "Steamer Shenandoah, November 5, 1865. To the Right Hon. Earl Russell, Her Britannic Majesty's Minister for Foreign Affairs: I have the honor to announce to your Lordship my ar- rival in the waters of the Mersey, with this vessel late a ship of war in my command, belonging to the Confeder- ate States of America.

500
Page 501
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONTEDERATE CRUISER 121 The singular position in which I find myself placed and the absence of all precedents on the subject, will I trust, induce your Lordship to pardon a hasty reference to a few facts connected with the cruise lately made by this ship. I commissioned the ship in October, 1864, under or- ders from the Naval Department of the Confederate States, and in pursuance of the same, commenced actively cruising against the enemy's commerce. My orders di- rected me to visit certain seas, in preference to others. In obedience thereto I found myself in May, June and July of this year, in the Ochotsk Sea and Arctic Ocean. Both places if not quite isolated, are still so far removed from the ordinary channels, that months would elapse before any news could reach them as to the progress or termina- tion of the American War. In consequence of this awkward circumstance, I was engaged in the Arctic Ocean, in acts of war so late as the 28th of June, in ignorance of the series of reverses sus- tained by our arms in the field, and the obliteration of the Government under whose authority I had been acting. This intelligence I received for the first time, on communi- cating at sea on the 2d of August, with the British barque Barracouta of Liverpool, fourteen days from San Fran- cisco. Your Lordship can imagine my surprise at the receipt of such intelligence, and I would have given to it little consideration if an Englishman's opinion did not confirm the war news, though from an enemy's port. I desisted immediately from further acts of war, and determined to suspend further action, until I had com- 501
Page 502
122 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISEE municated with a European port, where I could learn if that intelligence was true. It would not have been intelli- gent in me, to convey this vessel to an American port, sim- ply because the master of the Barracouta had said the war was ended. I was in an embarrassing position. I diligently exam- ined all the law writers at my command, searching for a precedent for my guidance, in the future control, man- agement and final disposal of the vessel. I could find none. History is, I believe, without a parallel. Finding the authority questionable under which I considered this vessel a ship of war, I immediately discontinued cruising, and shaped my course for the Atlantic Ocean. As to the ship's disposal, I do not consider that I have any right to destroy her, or any further right to command her. On the contrary, I think that as all the property of the Confederate Government has reverted by the fortune of war to the Government of the United States of North America, that therefore this vessel, insomuch as it was the property of the Confederate States should accompany the other property already reverted. I have, therefore, sought this port as a suitable one to learn the news, and if I am without a Government, to sur- render the ship, with her battery, small arms, machinery, stores, tackle and apparel complete, to Her Majesty's Government for such disposition as in its wisdom should be deemed proper. James I. Waddell, Commander." We had now to await an answer to this letter, which would advise us whether we were to be held as prisoners by the British Government, turned /over to the United States authorities, or 502
Page 503
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONTEDEBATE CRUISER 123 set at liberty, and there was enough in the uncertainty involving our fate to depress the most buoyant spirits. But sailors seldom quite despond. They generally discover some bright spot in the darkest horizon, and are prompt to take courage if their situation is anything short of desperate. As night closed round us, one of the passed midshipmen, with half a dozen of the junior officers at his heels, made his appearance in the steerage, and having taken the general ground that so far from having done anything to be ashamed of, we had every reason to be proud of our exploits, he proposed that care be kicked to the wall, and all apprehension drowned in a general jubilee. It was just the kind of a proposition to strike favorably a sailor's ear, and ere long, a frolic was inaugurated that gradually extended through almost the entire ship's company. A stranger dropping down among them would have been justified in thinking, from the boisterous hilarity everywhere observable, that we had re- turned in triumph from some grand expedition, and were celebrat- ing our victories; and had he been told that that noisy, rollicking company were waiting to learn whether they were to be set free or handed over to implacable enemies to be tried for their lives, he would have considered the informer either insane or endeavoring to practise upon his credulity. The next day passed without bringing any response from Earl Russell to the Captain's communication, and among the thinking, the gravest apprehension began to be entertained. There was little else talked of among the officers, and the opinion prevailed that the British authorities, fearing that they would be held responsible for the depredations we had committed, would turn us over as a sort of peace-offering to appease the wrath of the United States, and it was tacitly understood among us that the time had arrived when each man must look out for himself. 503
Page 504
124 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CR.UISEB About nine o'clock in the evening I went on deck, feeling more wretchedly depressed in spirits than I ever remember to have been before or since. A miserable, drizzly rain was falling; in brief, it was the kind of night to make one melancholy under any circumstances. I had firmly resolved that the Shenandoah and I should part company that night at all hazards. I had a constitu- tional objection to ornamenting the yard-arm of a Yankee man- of-war, but by the appearance of things, I stood a remarkably fair chance of obtaining that elevated position; but how was I to ef- fect my escape? We were at anchor in the stream, our decks were closely guarded by the marines and sailors from the Donegal, and no boat was allowed to approach us, under severe penalties. But the attempt had to be made,—at the worst I could but fail. Approaching the marine, who was pacing backwards and forwards near where the accommodation ladder was suspended over the side, I opened a careless conversation with him, and, watching my opportunity, slipped into his hands a bottle of the veritable old whiskey we had captured in the Ochotsk Sea. The fellow gave me an intelligent glance, pocketed his Bour- bon, and marched sedately forward, while I dove down to the ward room and in a few moments was completely metamorphosed into as genuine an old shell-back as ever broke biscuit in a forecastle. As I made my appearance on deck again, the sentry glanced, with a half-amused expression, at the immense sea boots, oilskin coat, and sou'wester hat which decorated my person; but his at- tention was conveniently called to something on the opposite side of the deck, and the next moment I was over the side and standing on the lower step of the accommodation ladder, effectually con- cealed from any on board, unless they were looking for me at that particular place. A number of small boats were plying in various directions, 504
Page 505
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 125 and one of these passed so near that I was enabled to speak her without unduly elevating my voice. The man hesitated for some moments, but good nature, with perhaps the hope of a fitting pe- cuniary reward, finally overcame his prudence. He shot his little craft alongside. I sprang in, and in an instant was gliding shore- ward. The voyage was accomplished without accident, and ere long I set foot on the landing stage of Liverpool. I gave the boatman two pounds which left me with eight, the sole proceeds of my thir- teen months' cruise in the Shenandoah. With such feelings of relief and thankfulness as I am unable to describe, I strode along up Lime Street, in the direction of the Washington Hotel, an inn much frequented by my countrymen. As I approached it I saw Mr. Adger, a cotton speculator from Charleston, with whom I had been well acquainted, standing on the steps. I went up to him and extended my hand. He glanced curi- ously at my outlandish costume, but evidently did not recognize me, which was encouraging, considering the delicate position in which I was placed, and the possible necessity of resuming a sim- ilar disguise at some future occasion, but when I told him my name, he grasped my hand with such genuine warmth, and gave me such a cordial welcome, that I felt I had indeed met a countryman. Mr. Adger insisted upon my accompanying him to his own hotel, the Adelphi, and I complied without much persuasion. The clerks and attaches of that rather elegant establishment, stared in blank amazement when they saw Mr. Adger, whom they well knew, enter the office, yard-arm and yard-arm, with what seemed to be an old salt, fresh from the forecastle, and their astonishment was in no wise abated, when he demanded to have me established in the room adjoining his own. My friend, in the kindness and generosity of his heart, would 505
Page 506
126 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER have at once supplied all my needs from his own purse, but I could not bring myself to trespass farther on his bounty, than to accept a hat which I substituted for my sou'wester, and a pair of shoes to replace my sea boots. Under my oilskin, I wore a suit of citi- zen's clothes, so for the time being I felt under no particular ap- prehension of drawing upon myself unwelcome scrutiny. The next day I began to feel some compunctions of con- science at the way in which I had left the ship. It was true I had neither flag nor country to claim my service, but it seemed to me on reflection that it would have been more manly to have remained with my brother officers, and shared their fate, whatever it might be. The more I thought of it, the stronger became the conviction, and about ten o'clock I sallied forth from the Adelphi, firmly re- solved to go on board again and take my chances with the rest. At the landing stage, I encountered Captain North, late of the Confederate navy, and Mr. Robinson, formerly one of our agents. On learning of my escape from and intended return to the Shenandoah, both gentlemen joined in urging me to desist from my purpose. They argued, and truly, that I could do nothing to aid my companions, many of whom had doubtless, ere this, adopted similar means of getting out of harm's way. Both were impressed with the notion that the ship's company would be transferred to the United States authorities, which simply meant resigning them to summary execution, and recommended me instead of going on board again to make a straight wake for Paris. It required but a few moments' consideration to see that this was the counsel of wisdom, and there did seem to be a question whether any code of honor would require me to sacrifice myself with my comrades, when all of us were powerless to aid each other. Moodily I walked back to the hotel, revolving these things in my mind. Sometimes momentarily congratulating myself that 506
Page 507
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 127 I had acted the part of a sensible man, and again falling back upon my former opinion that it was an act of poltroonry to leave my friends in the hour of danger, whether I could render them any assistance or not. On gaining the hotel the gratifying intelligence reached me that our troubles were soon to be over, and fortunately the rumor was ere long confirmed. About six o'clock in the evening, Captain Paynter of the Donegal, to whom the Shenandoah had surrendered, received a telegram ordering him to at once release such of the officers and crew of that ship as were not British subjects. As soon as he received these instructions, Captain Paynter proceeded to the Rock Ferry slip and applied for a steam boat. Mr. Thwarts, who had charge of these boats, at once placed at his disposal the steamer Bee, in which he immediately went off to our cruiser. On gaining the deck he made known the object of his visit to Captain Waddell, who ordered his officers and crew to be summoned to the quarter-deck. The roll books were brought out, and the names called in regular order. As each man answered to his name he was asked to what country he belonged, but in no in- stance did any acknowledge himself a British subject. The ma- jority claimed to be either native or adopted citizens of America; but several, who insisted that they had been born in some one of the Confederate States, had an unmistakably Scotch accent, and probably opened their eyes for the first time on this world, a good deal nearer the Clyde than the Mississippi. This formality having been gone through with, Captain Paynter informed them that they were at liberty to proceed ori shore, and the intelligence was received with boisterous demonstra- tions of joy. Away they went forward and commenced packing up their bedding and such other articles of personal property as 507
Page 508
128 THE shenaxdoah; ok the last confederate cruiser they possessed, which they conveyed on board the Bee, waiting to take them off to the landing stage. When all were ready to bid a final adieu to the vessel, they collected forward and gave three lusty cheers for their late Com- mander, and Captain Wad dell acknowledged the compliment in a brief but appropriate address. The crew then went on board the little steamer, and the last Confederate force was disbanded. Among the many excellent and high-minded gentlemen who, first and last, during the war, acted as Confederate Agents in England, Mr. J. D. Bulloch stands preeminent. For the many and valuable services he rendered to his native country during the hour of her trial, he steadfastly refused to receive any compensa- tion. A short time prior to the final collapse, several thousand pounds of the Public Fund came into his hands, which he laid aside, not knowing how else to dispose of it, to provide for the immediate necessities of such naval officers of the Confederacy as the close of the war should leave homeless and proscribed in England. Two hundred pounds from this fund was appropriated to each of the officers of the Shenandoah, as a just recompense for the long serv- ice they had rendered, and for which they could never hope to re- ceive any other compensation. At two different times, this fund, with directions for its dis- bursement, was privately conveyed to Captain Waddell atfer he landed in Liverpool, it being of course presumed that no more trusty custodian could be found for it. The event proved that this confidence was shamefully abused, and a clue was at last furnished for our commander's singular anx- iety to take his ship to Liverpool instead of to Sydney or Cape Town. Before any of his officers had learned of this provision that kindness and forethought had made for them, he summoned them 508
Page 509
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 129 to his quarters,—George's Hotel, Dale Street, Liverpool. One at a time they were admitted to his presence, and as the humor actu- ated him, he presented them from fifty to one hundred pounds apiece, out of the two hundred that was justly theirs. A few of his favorites, I believe, received their full bounty. The balance he coolly appropriated to himself, probably as a commission for trans- acting the business, nor was this the whole extent of his peculations. The paymaster of the ship, Mr. W. Beadlove Smith, who had formerly been Secretary to the Captain of the Alabama, volun- teered his services to settle with the crew, from the pay-roll in his possession, but the offer was declined, and he subsequently sent our old quartermaster Wiggins, as honest and straightforward an old sailor as ever walked a deck, to get them together and pay them from one third to one half of what was actually due them, and promise the remainder at some indefinite time in the future. For weeks after, his residence at Waterloo, a little way out of Liver- pool, was besieged by these poor men clamoring for the hard- earned pittance out of which he had mercilessly defrauded them. I may mention also, that after getting safely on shore, Cap- tain Waddell became very solicitous to get possession of the old flag, upon which he set so little value when it was offered to him on board the Shenandoah. Its custodian declined to surrender it, whereupon the Captain had the effrontery to threaten him with the loss of his pay and bounty if it was not given up, but the man who had taken that flag to his keeping valued it far higher than pounds and pence,—the threat was indignantly disregarded, and for once, virtue was rewarded, for B got his money. It is exceedingly painful for a sailor to write such things con- cerning a commander under whom he has served. Had Captain Waddell been contented with simply enriching himself at the ex- pense of those who shared the toils and perils of that cruise, which has made his name famous, I should have been silent, for the credit 509
Page 510
180 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER of the service to which I had the honor to belong, but when, after all his officers had left England, and he therefore felt secure from personal chastisement, he ventured to publish that atrocious libel concerning their honor and courage, I could not in justice to my- self and my associates do less than exhibit the man to the world in his true colors. I subjoin an extract from his letter to which I have referred, and with it close this hasty and inartistically written, but truthful narrative of the Shenandoah's first and last cruise. Extract from a letter written by Captain Waddell to a gentle- man in Mobile, Alabama, and dated: "Waterloo, near Liverpool, December 27, 1865. I am now in exile, but far from being a ruined man. I won't go to sea any more if I can help it. The feeling shown towards me, through the restriction placed on my wife, is decided. It is just the feeling I like, though the tyranny to her is humiliating to the nature of man. I have written her to release her bondsmen, and inform the Government that she owes her allegiance to her husband. As my case now stands, I do not think the bond is worth the paper it is written upon. In a Court of law I know it would fall. You have seen Mr. Welles's report, I suppose. He does me justice when he writes that I ceased my depredations when I heard Mr. Davis was a prisoner. He wilfully lies when he writes that I continued cruising against the un- armed whale ships when I knew that the arms of the South had surrendered. The facts are these: After reaching Bering's Sea, I 510
Page 511
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 131 captured the ship William Thompson and brig Susan A bigail. Both had left San Francisco in April last. These captures were made about the 23rd of June, and from each I received San Francisco papers. These papers pro- fessed to have the correspondence between Generals Grant and Lee concerning the surrender of Lee's army. They also stated that Mr. Davis and Cabinet were in Danville, to which the Confederate Government had been removed, and that Mr. Davis had issued a proclamation informing the Southern people that the war would be carried on with renewed vigor. I was made possessor of as late news by these two captures, as any the whalers had, and I con- tinued my work until it was completed in the Arctic Ocean, on the 28th of June, 1865, when I had succeeded in destroying or dispersing the New England whaling fleet. I left the Arctic on the 29th of June, and shipped from some of the whalers eight men on that very day,—men of intelligence, all trained soldiers. It is not to be believed that these men would have taken service in the Shenan- doah if they believed the war was ended. After leaving Bering's Sea I fell in with no vessels until I communicated with the British barque Barracouta, from San Francisco, August 2d, fourteen days, bound for Liverpool. She informed me of the capture of Mr. Davis and a part of his Cabinet, also of the surrender of Gen- erals Johnston's, Smith's, and Magruder's armies. The Barracouta furnished that news the first time I heard it, and I instantly ceased to cruise, and steered for Cape Horn. Before communicating with the Barracouta I intended to look into the Gulf of Lower California, and there 311
Page 512
182 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDEEATE CRUISEE await the arrival of a California steamer, bound for Pan- ama. The Barracouta news surprised us, and among some of the officers I witnessed a terror which mortified me. I was implored to take the vessel to Australia; that to try to reach a European port would be fatal to all con- cerned. Petitions were signed by three fourths of the officers, asking to be taken to Cape Town, arguing and picturing the horrors of capture, and all that sort of stuff. I called the officers and crew to the quarter deck, and said calmly to them, ' I intend taking this ship to Liverpool. I know there is risk to be run, but that has been our associ- ate all the time. We shall be sought after in the Pacific and not in the Atlantic.' They supported my views, and then followed a letter from the crew, signed by seventy-one out of one hundred and ten men, saying they had confidence in me, and were willing, nay, desired to go with me wherever I thought best to take the vessel. I had of course a very anxious time,—painfully anxi- ous because the officers set a bad example to the crew. Their conduct was nothing less than mutiny. I was very decided with some of them. I had to tell one officer I would be Captain or die on the deck, and the vessel should go to no other port than Liverpool. So ended my troubles with supplications and complaints from the officers. The men behaved nobly, and stood firmly to their decision. When the ship was four hundred miles from the Azores, a suspicious looking vessel was seen ahead, and appar- ently lying to, waiting for us to come up with her. It was sunset, the wind very light, and my suspicions being aroused, I steered my course steadily until darkness closed upon us, and then I wore ship and stood southwest until 512
Page 513
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 188 steam could be gotten up, for I had not even banked fires since parting with the Barracouta. It took two hours to get steam up. When it was ready, I furled sails and stood due east for sixteen miles, and hauled on my course, steam- ing for one hundred miles. I believe she was a Yankee cruiser. She was only six miles off when night came on, but I evaded her successfully. The Shenandoah, under sail, is a sixteen-knot vessel; under steam, ten knots;—a fine sea-craft. She ran from the Arctic to Liverpool in one hundred and thirty days; from the Line on the Pacific to the Cape in twenty-six days; from the Cape to the Line on the Atlantic in twenty-six days; and from the Line to Liverpool in twenty-four days. Two of my crew died of disease when near Liverpool; otherwise nothing happened to mar our cruise. No acci- dent occurred during the cruise. So ends my naval career, and I am called a pirate. I made New England suffer, and I do not regret it. I can- not be condemned by any honest-thinking man. I sur- rendered the vessel to the British Government, and all were unconditionally released. My obstinacy made ene- mies among some of the officers, but they now inwardly regret their action in the Cape Town affair. James I. Waddell." For list of prizes captured by the Shenandoah, see p. 514, /' 513
Page 514
05 d w o w 3 2 o o w H w o w H LIST OF PRIZES CAPTURED BY THE CONFEDERATE S. S. "SHENANDOAH." Buenos Ayres. San Francisco. Valparaiso.... Rio Grande... Bahia, S. A... Sandwich Islands Whaling Akyab Rio Barque Alina, of Searsport, lat. 130 0' N., long. 26° 44' W Schooner Charter Oak, San Francisco, lat. 70 38' N., long.270 49' W Barque D. Godfrey, Boston, lat. 40 42' N., long. 28° 24' W Brig Susan, New York, lat. 40 24'N., long. 26° 39/ W Ship Kate Prince, Portsmouth, N.H., lat. ,°43/N., long. 29° 22' W.. . Schooner L. M. Stacey, Boston, lat. ,° 4o'N., long. 28° 24' W Barque Edward, whaler, N. B., lat. 370 47' S., long. 12° 0' 30" W . "Delphine, Bangor, Me., lat. 39° 13' S., long. 68° 33' E "Adelaide, Baltimore, lat. 1° 43' N., long. 290 22' W "Pearl, New London, Ascension Island Edward Cary, San Francisco,"" Ship Hector, New Bedford,"" Barque Harvest, Honolulu,"" "Abigail, New Bedford, Ochotsk Sea Ship William Thompson, New Bedford, off Cape Thaddeus Euphrates, New Bedford, off Cape Thaddeus Barque William C. Nye, New Bedford, near Bering Straits o> Ship Sophia Thornton," £ Barque Nimrod," Catherine," "Gypsy, Isabella," General Pike, "Favorite, Fairhaven, near Bering Straits- General Williams, N. B., "Congress, "Hillman,"" .. Ship Isaac Howland,"" Brig Susan and Abigail,"" Ship Nassau."" Barque Martha, N. B., Bering Straits "Waverley" "Covington, N. B "Jireh Swift," near Bering Straits Ship Brunswick," "James Murray, near Bering Straits "Milo Barque Nile, New London Value Date of Capture Rsmd. $93000 13.000 36000 0436 40000 13000 20000 0000 B.Cargo 24000 10000 13.000 38000 34.739 16,703 4090 42,320 32-2 70000 29,260 26,174 34,369 38000 R. 0000 37,896 44,740 33,3<» 33,ooo 73.U2 6,300 40000 3007 62,376 0,000 61,960 16,272 R- 40330 R. 0000 R- 20330 Oct. Nov. Dec. Apr,l May June From Newport Boston Cardiff Boston N.Bedford London... Baltimore. Whaling.. Bound to No. of Pr'sn 's 12 9 12 6 20 6 0 17 13 10 36 33 33 33 33 33 33 33 33 33 33 33 33 33 20 33 33 33 33 33 33 33 35 33 1033
This page contains an image.
Page 515
THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFEDERATE CRUISER 135 The Shenandoah was delivered to the American Consul at Liverpool. The Sultan of Zanzibar afterwards bought her, and several years later she went down in a gale with all on board. After Waddell's release he went to Paris, but afterward re- turned to the United States, and in 1875 entered the service of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company. When their steamer San Fran- cisco was wrecked, May 16, 1877, he was in command. He was born in Pittsboro, N. C., in 1824, and died in Annap- olis, Md., March 15, 1886.—Appleton's Cyclo. of Am. Biog. sis
Page 516
Blank page
Page 517
THE DEC MAGAZINE OF HISTORY WITH NOTES AND QUERIES Number—No. 12 THE SHENANDOAH; OR THE LAST CONFED- ERATE CRUISER Cornelius E. Hunt, One of her Officer WILLIAM ABBATT 141 EAST 25TH STREET, .-. .-. NEW YORI COPYRIGHT, 1910, BY WILLIAM ABBATT 1910
Page 518
Blank page
Page 519
!
Page 520
umvERSrnr OF MICHIGAN 111* It'll 1111 3 9015 03327 8170
Page 521
r - . — ?'•

DO NOT REMOVE OR UTILATE CARD
Page 522
Blank page
This page contains an image.
End of Section. Continue to next section or 
End of text. Return to .

